ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u27254	Let's move on, now it's time for a respected colleague, Sabina Vosovac, from the SDP Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u27255	Thank you, Mr. President HS. Dear colleagues and colleagues. In the next seven days, the SDP's proposal to amend the Penal Code, which, if all of them supported this proposal, allowed the acts of sexual harassment and sexual harassment to be prosecuted, and thus to disappear from the law an existing item saying that the victim must report such an act within three months. At the end of last year, the Croatian public remained limited by a case where as many as 15 HUP employees reported by the deputy director-in-chief for sexual harassment were left without legal protection for a completely absurd reason. Their application was rejected for a formal reason, and that was three months ago. So it doesn't matter what happened, without any desire to prejudge here to end this investigation and criminal proceedings, it doesn't matter to the state whether the women were victims of violence, it's only important that the abuser wasn't reported within three months. We're all wondering how is that possible? Well, it's possible because it's in the case of amendments to the 2019 Penal Code. Art. 156. which refers to the criminal offence of sexual harassment prescribed that the person who sexually harasses the other person to whom he is in charge or who is in relation to his addiction will be punished by a prison sentence of up to two years, but only after a private application or in order to give it legally according to the proposal. This in practice means that this crime is not being prosecuted by official duty, but rather, the victim of abuse or harassment must report it himself, and within three months, nothing else, eaten by a donkey wolf, bit by a cat. And imagine how the victim of abuse felt three months after the abuse happened, when someone tried to take her dignity, hit on her pride and undo her as a person? Who thinks in those three months that they should go first to report this violence? And now let's put that on, let's just put ourselves in the position of that particular victim for a moment, and in this case I won't talk about domestic violence, partner violence, but precisely this case of abuse at work and where you are in that position subordinated, or where the person who is your superior or dominant abuses his position. You're being abused by your boss at work, abused by your college professor, depended on your job, and it's up to him to finish your studies clearly that you're afraid. You wait with your application not only because of feelings of shame, shame, humiliation, pain, mood, but because of pure fear for your own existence, perhaps even fear for fate. You'll wait a moment to get out of that job, maybe wait a moment to finish that college, and then you'll collect your courage when you agree after maybe the long, long treatments you're going through, you'll decide to report the abuser. And what will the state tell you then? It's late. Three-month deadline's up. And the abuser will continue to be abused because the state does not want to interfere. So when the three-month deadline's up, you can just sit there and keep crying. The State Attorney's Office will reject the application even if there is evidence that the act has been committed even there is no doubt that the application has been established. We in the SDP are aware of this problem, aware of this absurdity we sent to the parliamentary procedure in early December to amend that one article of criminal law, that one single article that can restore many women's dignity. We asked that the abuser be prosecuted on official duty, the state institutions involved, the protection of the victims, and that the part that leads the victim's wife into a hopeless situation in which the struggle apparently doesn't make sense. Such a law does not protect the victim but rather discourages her and forces her to remain silent. So I call on all of you in this assembly not to wait any longer, we all agree that the proposal is good, we all agree that the current solution is absurd and bad, we all agree that the victims should be protected immediately and therefore we act and change the criminal law in that one article. Let's not let partying in a sexual harassment victim's assembly keep them down, we're here to help them all together, to protect them, not to set up barriers for them.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u27256	Thank you, too. Good morning, esteemed MPs and respected MPs. As always, on the first day of the plenary session in the week, we begin to take a stand. Today is the first in line Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and Honored counterpart of Hrvoje Zekanovic, please. Comrade Zekanovic, did you lift the masks or...? You're out of masks in the Parliament today? I'd beg you to walk in here with a mask, you can take it off for a pay phone but don't walk me... /Intruder Zekanovic: Go back and take it off at the pay phone or... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't need it now, but for next time. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Don't answer me that way because you know very well the rules that exist in the House, please begin with your speech. [[Intruder Zekanovic: If necessary, I'll come back and I'll take it off at the pay phone, I took it off 3 meters from the pay phone.]] Do you hear what I'm saying? [[Intruder Zekanovic: If I have to, I will correct the error, return 3 metres and put on a mask and return.]] Stop fighting, please speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u27327	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Jandrokovic, respected representatives and MPs, media representatives. Placebo effect or placebo is in a strict sense a fake product that does not contain medicinal products with pharmacological effect. Placebo effects describe the situation when the patient is convinced that the medicine he is using has a beneficial effect although the medicine that can be in the form of tablets contains only sugar and the medicine used to inject only the saline solution. It's for drugs, but there's also a placebo effect in politics. Today's Croatian policy but also European politics has an exclusively placebo effect because there is no active substance that could be treated. So it is a false policy, a policy that is presented as capable of bringing prosperity to EU and Croatian citizens, unfortunately there is none of it. The best example of European incompetence is the current supply of vaccines. What you have all noticed, Israelis are being vaccinated, Americans are being vaccinated, the Chinese, even some African countries and even neighbours in the east, but Serbs are being vaccinated, but the EU has problems getting vaccines. The EU has still split up a very small population, exclusively for the sake of incompetent European bureaucracy and then we have this famous placebo effect where it is constantly convincing us that the EU is great regardless of the economic indicators that are bad, regardless of the increase in the number of unemployed, regardless of the migrants who are coming to the EU, but the EU is great and in Croatia it is great because the government of Andrej Plenkovic says so because Ursula von der Leyen and Charles Michel. And nothing really works. And then at one point after that placebo effect that is constantly trying to convince us that it is good, we read that Minister Beros says "We are thinking about getting a Russian vaccine," before it is approved by the European Health Agency. I welcome this decision but this decision speaks of what? It discusses the inability and ineffectiveness of the EU. So, suddenly, Minister Beroš wakes up from his winter sleep and realizes after months and months that the EU is simply not the time to get the vaccine. And now this Sputnik vaccine, which until a few days ago was gossiped in the Croatian media and depicted as a vaccine that is bad, extremely bad, suddenly becomes good. I don't know when that changed, but you know what's most interesting? The European Medical Agency, the health agency has not yet allowed Sputnik to enter the European market at all, not because it is a bad vaccine, but because diplomatic work exists today between Brussels and Moscow. So, the health situation or the health of Europeans today is at risk for European bureaucracy and for the position of Ursula von der Leyen, Angela Merkel or perhaps Charles Michel. No one cares about what is plagued by ordinary citizens of the EU. And here I have to mention two more things in a hurry because it's very important. Therefore, the modernisation and electrification of the Zaprešić-Zabok railway section was due to be completed from 1 April to 1 October 2019. And on that route today, busses, anyone starting from Zagreb to the north, rides on this section by buses. And there's a man on the man in those buses. Therefore, epidemiological measures are not respected. Who's crazy here? So can you send which bus more to respect epidemiological measures? It is other things to end would call, or well, called, all those who are to protect themselves from conception, that these days join the prayer action "40 days for life", began the Koriza, began the action in front of Croatian hospitals, we MPs fought in our own way by voting and lobbying, standing by the laws and those who are not able to be representatives, they can fight for the protection of life by prayer, here we go with prayer in front of Croatian hospitals, and from this place I call all those to join this noble action.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u27381	And we're going to the last debate today, that's Green-Left Block Representative Club, respected colleague Sandra Bencic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u27382	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. In December of last year, the government adopted a plan to introduce, implement and monitor vaccination against covida-19. The Ministry of Health and Health and the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Health, as well as the MUP, are also responsible for the implementation of the guidelines set out in this document. In order to implement these guidelines, a centralised information system should be introduced for the reporting and log-out of persons who wish to be vaccinated and received in the order planned. Instead, complete chaos and privatisation of vaccination regimes are allowed, resulting in the so-called Vipovci, a very important person in this society of various profiles, was created a very special list, and it was formed by calling friends in the position of health care. Thus far, vaccination has been carried out in a highly corrupt procedure, a compromised procedure that has made clear to all citizens of this country, you are neither equal in front of the law nor in front of the health system as you are not equal in many other aspects of life in Croatia. As early as the 10th month, my colleague from the New Left doctor Ivana Kekin warned about the disorganization of the cleavage against the flu and the fact that there was not enough doses for healthcare professionals and workers at the time. She warned even then that she was afraid of what would happen to the vaccine against covid, if we were unable to organise enough doses of flu vaccines for all healthcare professionals and workers at the time we had the worst peak covid crisis. Although it is not the government's fault that there are not enough doses of vaccines because this is the problem of the entire EU, it is absolutely responsible, it is absolutely responsible that it has not ensured that vaccination is going according to the vaccination plan already on principle, which I would call the principle of strangulation because it is crucial to obtain the vaccine as an accident in the right place at the right time. So, according to Dr. Verzaka rector Boras, along with his wife, found at the Institute for Children's Preventive Dentology of the KBC of Zagreb just at the time the workers split up and just at the time those two extra vaccines were found at hand, so like when you're already here, let's vaccinate you. In that story, of course, there are a lot of strange elements like that that the rector went to the children's preventive dentistry office, given his age, we would expect him to go somewhere else, and it's also a little weird that the dentist goes with his wife. However, it is obvious that the fear of dentists does not exceed even deep age. But if you know a little bit about getting caught then it's actually not so weird because Luka Burilović, HGK leader, a fan of fast and expensive cars, but a little less of a fan of getting those same cars out of his own pocket. Luka Burilovic thus found himself, he also found himself in a place where there were extra vaccines, although there are total shortages throughout the country, but in some strategic positions there are certain surpluses that those who know how to find themselves. So Linic found himself, first found himself on the right day in Zagreb, and then when he was already in Zagreb, he also found himself at the Public Health Institute where, beware now, the extra vaccine was found. And that's how Mr. Linic was vaccinated. It's a bit of a coincidence or even a finger of fate as a word, but it's actually an amateur delusion. It is a serious discipline that is practiced, taught and perfected throughout life, especially good training has prominent political parties and various political bodies that have led to the level of Olympic sport. So, dear citizens, instead of waiting for fate's finger to hit you and someone's calling for vaccinations, study and practice getting caught.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u27383	This led us to the end of discussions between clubs and independent representatives, or representatives. Let's move on, the 3rd is the House of Homeland Movement Representatives Club and Honored colleague Ante Pracachin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u27438	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Tomorrow in Belgrade, the Sinold Serbian Orthodox Church will elect a new patriarch. An extremely significant political event. However, Croatian politics and Croatian media give this little attention because of ignorance, and ignorance and superficiality is otherwise a characteristic of the relationship between Croatian authorities and Croatian governments towards the Serbian Orthodox Church. Because that scandalous contract that was signed just over 18 years ago, more precisely 20.12.2002. between Ivica Racan on the one hand as the legitimate legitimate real president of the real government of the real Croatian state, and the contract was signed with the imaginary president of the non-existent Episcopal Council in Croatia of the illegal Croatian Orthodox Church in Croatia. Both in the contract and after the contract, the universal Serbian church with the treasure and central in Belgrade has gained enormous material values. Some economists argue that the value of the total assets received by the Serbian Orthodox Church after the famous agreement is greater than the value of the total privatisation property in Croatia. And based on what contract? One average lawyer, one clear student of the 2nd year of law, looks at the contract, and sees, and has it in front of him, in fact I forgot it, the Constitution of the Serbian Orthodox Church and the Croatian Law on the Rights of Religious Communities, or on the position of religious communities. Art. 1. The law on the position of religious communities also says that the religious community must be included in the list of religious communities, and the Croatian Orthodox Church, or the Serbian Orthodox Church in Croatia, is not. It has five or seven organisational or record formats that are entered, but such as the co-signator Racanu does not exist. On the other hand, when the constitution of the Serbian Orthodox Church is looked at in Croatia, I got it online from Serbia, and the last one came out in 1947. In this constitution of the Serbian Orthodox Church, nor in art. Article 5.5. There is no episcopic advice in any article, so there is no president of that council either. It means a unilateral decision to wrinkle that piece of paper, toss it and get it back to square one. It's not just Racan's problem, the five governments changed after Racan, and no one noticed it, no one responded to that, nor did this current government. I would prefer to dispute the contract personally with one other argument or arguments because I would not dispute it with the argument of this hollow empty and unwitting contract or agreement between the Serbian Orthodox Church in Croatia and the Croatian government. I would dispute him with arguments of history, geography, property rights and go through history and Serbian Orthodox churches and the Serbian state, and they are a unique, unique thread of leadership exactly what the father of their nation, Dobrisa Ćosic, said is a lie. 1219. when they mention the first time the self-cuffiness of the Serbian Orthodox Church is actually confirmed by nothing but challenged, even the Ohrid Episcopal directed either criticism or curse it is not known, but there is no doubt that Dusan Nemmanic was cursed by the imperial patriarch when he invented his own hand the patriarch and the patriarch so that he could become emperor. Furthermore, one very interesting document came out in 1531 when four patriarchs, four Orthodox patriarchs, disputed any autocephale of the Serbian Orthodox Church. This church appeared for the first time in 1920. A statement by Aleksandar Karadjordjevic, past the canon of Orthodoxs, because if Alexander respected the canon of Orthodoxs, he would establish the Serbian Orthodox Church, the Orthodox Church of the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians, not the Serbian Orthodox Church.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u27439	Thank you very much. Time's up. Thank you very much. [[Thank you very much.]] Let's move on, 7th is a respected colleague, Marijana Puljak, on behalf of the Center and GLAS Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u27508	I thank the president, dear colleagues and colleagues. Today I would like to warn you of a practice that is repeated before every election that we are all aware of, and we often mention it, but here is a warning for our citizens, for example, from Split and Split-Dalmatia County, so Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic visited Split-Dalmatia County yesterday, with the Prime Minister Butkovic and Minister of Science and Education Radovan Fuchs. So, the prime minister and ministers walked, visited Vrgorac first, there the town of Kokorić which had recently been flooded, then were in Makarska, at the end of Split, stopped at the university which is the best university in the country and ended up in the opening of works on the project "Recreation and Upgrading of the Coast of the Domagoj Princes". So here it is visible, the elections are in a few months, it is only natural that the prime minister is walking to Croatia, sharing various promises. I might call here "promises of crazy joy". First of all, the rhetoric the Prime Minister is using is "the government gave it", "the government will give" whether it's like the money is owned by the government. Just so I warn the government won't give anything, Mr. President, it's not your money, it's the money of all Croatian citizens, all the taxpayers you take and share with you and yours, here is conveniently before each election, instead of any professional planning criteria and any kind of strategies. As it went with promises in Split and Split-Dalmatia County to remind, in May 2018. The government held a session in Split, so before the day of St. Duju and the government of the Republic of Croatia and the city of Split and Split-Dalmatia County signed even one contract with projects and programmes worth as much as 2 billion kuna. Then a whole company of ministers, the entire government at the signing, was later held a session of the city council, waving the company billions of kunas in front of the citizens of Split and Split-Dalmatia County. As far as this is concerned, here you can guess three times, along with me. So zero kuna or very close to zero kuna. A lot of things were promised then, in 2018, the Minister of the country even promised to hold high-level meetings at the time of Croatia's EU presidency, giving away hundreds of thousands of square meters of land to build apartments, garages, garages. It is interesting that part of the military in Dračevac was donated to the City of Split for the third time. So this was given to the previous government, each time we came to sign here, we present to Vojarna Dračevac, on this occasion for the third time. It was even said that a task force would be set up to solve the complex problems of the Spaladium Arena, from this task force to today no solution. Among the priorities at the time did not mention the strangely fast Trogir-Omis road, this realisation of the road by the end of the road to Omis we wait almost 50 years, a road that is gravityed by half a million people, the busiest road in the country has not been built for 50 years. I'm surprised they didn't take advantage of it, so some cornerstone was then set up, but here maybe now, maybe this is an opportunity. There was nothing about the compound of the wolf's knot through Kozjak towards the Adriatic magistrate. As much as the mayor promised to camp in the tent, we even gave him a tent once because we saw he wasn't camping, so we thought he was missing the tent. So here we are entering a vicious circle where the government promises, signs, seals, paints, walks, promises to bring back to the citizens what it took from them through various taxes, and will return through the construction of infrastructure. But promises last just until the election when they're gone and they disintegrate like soap balloons. I sincerely hope that the citizens here will punish such selling balls under the kidneys. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u27509	My colleagues should still choose words in HS, however attractive it may be for you, but if everyone will talk like that then we will turn into something other than HS. Here's my colleague Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u27510	Thank you, Mr. President. I also thanked you for your intervention, which is exactly what I wanted to say about Mrs. Puljak's injury to her ankle. 238th and further contesting the right of the Prime Minister to attend the opening of certain works on the construction of the coast, the eastern coast of Split. For a wonderful miracle, this performance as the wife of the city mayoral candidate Split is the testimony of a concerned citizen of Split, not the ultimate politics here at HS's pay phone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u27511	Thank you. So in that first part, you intervened justifiably, and this second part was a replica, so you get half a warning. Let's move on, now it's the HDZ Representatives' Club of Honored counterpart Nevenko Barbaric's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u27609	I thank the esteemed president of HS. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Two months ago, I announced the same as the first-class political event in BiH from this pay phone in Mostar just before the elections in Mostar, trying to clarify... political and intimate relations in Mostar from the formation of six municipalities to the single city and manager Hans Kosnik, a statute imposed by the court that would have put the same statute out of force, two missed election cycles until the signed agreement and the passed election law for the City of Mostar in mid-2020. I also talked about the illegal election commission of BiH, the fear of electoral fraud, engineering, about the needs of the Mostars, about the importance of Mostar for the Croatian people in BiH logically and with the elections themselves. The election campaign itself is expected to be too intense, but for the opportunities we live on we've seen everything before. Under cover of civil, proboscan, a Bosniak electoral body is mobilized, coalitions are formed, Croats usually go to the polls through individual party lists. The election day on the eye calmly, in the final order of irregularities, objections, proved through false reports of residence and electoral fraud. It was numbered in Mostar, and it was numbered in Sarajevo, so who knows where it was, for over a month, the election results were all due to be announced by the aforementioned electoral commission controlled by one man and one party. It's all followed by fierce rhetoric, accusations, but additional national homogenization. As this usually happens by publishing the results, it brings us satisfaction to a number of electoral actors, everyone is satisfied, all the winners, the city council is established, the mayor is elected, we have three candidates. So in Mostar alone, there is no direct choice for mayor in the first round of waste one candidate, expected in the second round no one has a two-thirds majority. The second round includes HDZ and SDA candidates. It is difficult to count everything that has happened in these few days until the session's continuation of the High Representative... cancels the first round of voting, seeks a secret statement, media space dominates against Croatian psychosis, calls for the proboscis unity regardless of what Mostar is in the heart of Herzegovina. The public is offered a rotation in the mayoral position and although it was known in advance that such a solution was neither in law nor in other acts, it was known that such a solution was inconclusive. Mostly the mayor can be anyone but a Croat seems to me that it didn't even matter what's in HDZ, the problem is the name, last name and nationality of the team so-called. The proboscis forces. The Komsic model paves the way for usurpation of everything that belongs to the Croats again under the cover of the citizen. This is best seen from the behaviour of the BiH SDP, which has proved falsely multiethnic, falsely civil. Yeah, HDZ is a national party, isn't that the SDA? As in the past 20 years so for example the Mostar SDP has always been, but is always classified alongside the SDA. Finally followed by the session's continuation, followed by the repeated first, second, and then the third round of voting, was elected by Dr. Mario Kordic of the HDZ mayor with 13 mandates is a relative winner of these elections. Optimism in better days Mostar offers statements from actors right after the election process is completed with a correct card and a statement that in sports jargon derby, someone always gets and someone loses. It was returned that there were no losers, and the citizens of Mostar were won. Consensus is offered on key projects, co-operation is offered, one more beautiful, more urban and better Mostar in the second plan falls charges of treason, fireworks, etc. Mostar has always been and will be a multiethnic city, a city of all its inhabitants, regardless of religion, nation and political definition. The beginning of 2021. He gave the Mostars hope back, the Mostars rightly expect to function city services in the right way, expect economic progress, new jobs, expect better living conditions. Mostar is a city where almost all the institutions of the Croatian people in BiH are located, from health, cultural, educational, to economic potential, expectations from the new city government of Dr. Cordice is rightly large. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u27610	Thank you. We're going to a second debate, A Club of Representatives of the Bridge, a respected colleague of the Zvonimir Troscott, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u27681	Your Honor, today on behalf of the Bridge Club, which I would like to point out to several devastating moves by the HDZ government and their minority partners. Namely, after you recently rejected our proposal to abolish the mandatory membership fee to HGK, which you failed to send a clear message that this country wants to develop an entrepreneurial spirit, this week you again showed a recognizable disorientation regarding the needs of Croatian society. The catering facilities have been closed for nearly 3 months without adequate support because they are still late for December last year, and the salaries have already been paid to workers for January, and will come very soon for February as well. You have inappropriately approached the decisions you yourself have made, and it is destructive and insulting to the intelligence of the people when after nearly 3 months you allow the hosts to sell drinks for the outside. Well, wouldn't it make sense that you've been letting out sales all along, not letting kiosks, bakeries and gas stations take over the work of catering facilities? The drinks for the outside should have been allowed immediately, and not now to give them as crumbs when it is the time for a complete opening. People gather around the terraces of these same cafes on uninfected tables with no spaces and no measures, and that's allowed. A few weeks ago, we've been sending you clear messages that people are fed up with these discriminatory and illogical measures. We repeat once again, open the catering facilities and let the gyms work normally. Every normal society encourages and encourages its citizens to practice sport as much as possible because sport strengthens their immunity and thus combats all causes of the disease. How is it possible that in shopping centres and trams you allow to be literally a man on human being, and you don't allow the caterers to open their premises and make money for their lives? Not only that, many caterers complain that they are being punished by the state, and then those incentives that the state has given them on behalf of the downfall in business must be paid back to the state. So far, more than 11,000 people in the catering sector have lost their jobs, people are changing their professions because they can't take it without a job. Many hosts are under too much pressure and will not have enough resources to prepare the season, which practically means their closure and worse tourist offer. With these measures of the Republic of Croatia, we are turning into a "cava for van" tourist destination. It seems that tolerating corruption, nepotism, the inequality of people in front of the law and many other social deviations has completely disrupted your system of values if you ever had one. Because how else do you explain the fact that you opened casinos and bookies while you provided crumbs to our hosts and gym owners? Casinos and bookies, which unfortunately destroy individuals and your entire family, you put ahead of the human need for work, for creation, for association and togetherness. Where's the logic? Maybe the logic is that you don't have the courage to resist various stakeholders because there's no epidemiological justification for why bookies can work and cafes can't. To embellish the image of himself and reduce pressure from himself, the Prime Minister let people gamble. Obviously, he felt that people needed gambling more than creating through work or hanging out with coffee. I guess with this move, we accepted that as a nation, we have a pretty big problem with betting addictions because that's a message that the Prime Minister sent to the entire nation the other day. We ask the government of the Republic of Croatia and all MPs of the ruling majority to wake up from their winter sleep and start working for the welfare of the society that chose them to serve them. Measures if they exist should be just and equal for everyone. And it's not true that bigger and smaller claims that there's no money for them, but the truth is that you're not ready to carry out reforms because it would cut off the branch you're sitting on. Thank you very much. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u27735	Let's move on. 6. presentation of the position, Club of Representatives of the SDSS, esteemed colleague Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u27736	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I'm sorry we didn't hear the exposition of fellow Prickins until the end... I hope he had no intention of suggesting that the Parliament chooses here the patriarch of the Serbian Orthodox Church. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I think we've got work to do without it. As for the topic we want to talk about, I want to talk about the situation in Bani. So, I would not like the interest of either the state or the public in the Republic of Croatia to be limited to certain cases of interest to the media about what is happening to the people living in Bania. I would like to talk in this assembly and elsewhere in the general public about what the real problems are right now. Both state and NGOs have done much to accommodate people either in mobile camp homes, or mobile homes, or in containers. But what she's done is she's done a lot to connect these electrical objects and that people have warm homes like that. But it is unacceptable that most of these objects are still not connected to liquid water, it is unacceptable that even the larger majority of these objects do not have septic pits. If it's the city of Clay since '95. in all residential buildings, they have lost central heating because the boilers that each building has become detached, we are not going to keep people like that in areas affected by the earthquake to live in mobile homes and in containers without septic pits and without running water. I appeal that this is changing urgently because NGOs and other enthusiasts are directly interested as I am and I cannot make up for the fact that it takes a huge team of people who need to deal with it in a few weeks, and not drag it out in a few months. It is a matter of health and it is a question of our co-responsibility for the life and quality of people's lives and an indication of how effective we are as a society. The other thing I want to talk about is paths. Many of these facilities, whether they were mobile homes or camps or containers, could not have gotten to the point where it had to be delivered that there were no HV and the people at headquarters in Glina who devoted themselves to this, either to Vice President Medvedo or Vice President Milosevic or other prominent HV officers and people who did... but it can't stay a condition. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] We need to devote ourselves to making these paths passable and to investing a systematic approach in making all these paths pass and that people can reach their homes and that hospital cars, mechanization, all of them can move around in that area. As far as the renovation is concerned, as I hear a few days, there's been a debate about what kind of forms we're going to have about it, who's going to have to contribute to meeting the renewal requirement. If it's like a request to rebuild after the war, it'll never be over. If people are to have 10, 15 papers each, if they need to look for their co-owners around the world who have moved to be able to apply for reconstruction, that will never be solved. And that is why I call upon the ministry responsible for suspending the job and making it the simplest possible procedure to file for renewal. Anyone living there is not rewarded for living there, but it should be rewarded for being restored after a brief procedure. And if the department is going to play administrative procedures, don't count on the support of this club. And if it lasts as long as it stretches may not count on support for such a type of relationship [[Intruder: Thank you]] towards people. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much, dear colleague Pupovac.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u27747	We are going to the 5th debate, I call on independent representative Katarina Peovic to state his position. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u27748	Good afternoon, everyone. In Parliament, and beyond, many talk about the need to cut various charges, fees, various fees, due to the crisis, due to the downfall of business, due to the decline in income, but few of those who speak and who touch the needs of the cheaping of overpriced banking services, means various fees, for opening an account, for holding an account, for paying cash, for transferring money from one account to another in another bank account, for raising money at another bank's ATM, for raising money on an ATM abroad, but now a new fee is being introduced to raise money on an ATM. Now, you're not exactly going to hear from capital spokesmen the attack on banks that have definitely overpriced services and that people, therefore, business and non-profits for digital services that really should be free because there's no cost, pay monthly means hundreds of kunas. So these are the rights, the real assets that burden self-employed and small craftsmen, but I'm saying, capital sitters aren't gonna hear the question. National Bank Governor Boris Vujčić, on this topic will say that it is a matter of the market, so the market only regulates those fees, but it does not seem to be a market in this case because only within half a year more banks place new fees on transactions, it would rather be said that it is a mutual agreement between banks. In addition, the supervisory board never imposed on banks what it was meant to do, to show through fees the actual cost of the transaction, and not that banks could be fully arbitraryly determined, so it would be seen that digital services are actually not necessary. But one more question is who the banks pay and the banks don't pay the richest ones but the poorest ones. Therefore, banks, however, release the payments of the wealthiest clients, for them there is no fee to raise large amounts, so that their more subcutaneous customers will keep the banks from transferring their amounts to other banks, and the poorest ones, therefore at least the transactions will have that fee. So it penalizes insensitively, especially in this social situation, the economic situation when such fees, for which no cost is needed, should not only be reduced, but should be fully abolished. So instead of liberating the poorest, we pay, we're heading towards them, or the banks are heading towards them. However, since the CNB and its regulation are determined what banks may and must not do, which is the function of banking in the state, we must also say that small banks are making it difficult to enter the market and that the existing large banks, privileged large commercial banks, are favouring their position of power and social position, so at a time like this, and are not at all interested in the social and economic situation. There's no excuse for billing prices to be so high and for them to rise in this crisis. What do banks justify? Banks justify raising these fees by falling their extra, indeed, extra profits. According to CNB data in 2020 in the first nine months, banks have reduced profits by about 44%, but their total assets have increased by 4.6% compared to 20 billion kuna. So banks are doing very well, and income drops automatically and they have no excuse for that, they're switching to the poorest. In 2019, the total commercial banking sector had nearly 20 billion kunas of revenue and a total net profit of 5.6 billion and such net profits were also a year earlier, to be clear, meaning the huge amount of money that is basically coming out of the country. Strong, therefore, capital mostly ends outside Croatia, profits end by dividend paid to foreign owners, this money is not reinvested in the Croatian domestic economy, the launch of domestic production, agricultural, green re-industry, etc., business policies of banks are completely hampered by needs, the development needs of Croatia. In addition, the unfavourable economic structure is, among other things, a reflection of the system in which banks finance the import of their domestic countries, meaning those products from domicile countries And that should be questioned. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u27749	Thank you very much. We're going to the 9th debate, the esteemed colleague Silvano Hrelja and the name of the Club of Representatives of HSS and HSU. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u27771	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, we are somewhere on 3% of the fissure, from the defect we are making surpluses for the chosen, endangering lives and delaying our return to normal life. The way things started, it looks like there's gonna be more overtime than regulars. How's that? Why is that? Such behaviour is not a new normal for us Croats but normal for us. From being friends to just asking is our modus vivendi and modus operandi, lifestyle and behavior. We push even when there's a guy in the waiting room called a red machine. Imagine if the red tape breaks down then there's about a civil war. I wasn't surprised once why I waited for hours at the hospital, and I wonder why they're surprised because the only thing I want is to be one of them. And therefore, my dears, I am amazed at this astonishment because it is surprising to be pushing, stealing, endangering others, selfishness and disorder that only someone who lies to himself and to others or has landed in Croatia at the moment. The one who lives here must not and cannot be surprised. If it sucks with us, it really sucks, there's no order, just over the line. And so there's, what's going on, there's only mess in all the cities, in all the institutions, all the waiting rooms, all the heads, and there's a mess growing. In an orderly mess, individuals allow order of action, especially those with special powers, positions, status. Gentlemen, all these faults, all these behaviors we in the Republic carefully cherish, feed, encourage, for years, for decades. Of course, now that it is a matter of health or sickness, life or death, moral condemnation is strengthened because fear is present. But these excesses and these relationships have cost a lot of life in the past, but there are no records of them that we can learn from it. But I assure you that this excess is harmful and has cost the lives of many citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I never doubted that I did the right thing by not being vaccinated. I'll wait my turn when our 63-year-old doctor is diagnosed with diabetes mellitus dependent on insulin. When it's our turn, then I'll be inoculated. And that's why I'm looking for numbers, I'm looking for plans, I'm asking for respect for order, and nothing over the line, because over the line is harmful. I repeat once again, for the thousandth time, the numbers and plans we need to be able to concentrate. We need checkpoints, passable times. My dear ones, it seems a shame to the elderly who are physically and life-threatening because of this excess, but also to the young. For young people, such actions as the wind are good home education, teaching you one thing, doing the other, listening to one thing, and looking at the other. The vain effort of the players, we try for nothing if the patterns of behavior are completely different. We certainly need to take care of that if we want to have a future in this country for our children. But at the end of the ballads, both young and old for your convictions are too small because these excessive individuals may not be important to other people under their roof, but they're also being questioned, but it's for conviction.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u29064	The last item of today's session is: Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission Please the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of Mr Robert Jankovics to submit a report.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u29065	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament at its 12th session held on 4 February 2021 discussed the request of the attorney-in-chief of private prosecutor Daniel Moslavec from Kalinovec to the President of the Croatian Parliament for the authorisation of continuing the criminal proceedings against Darka Sobota, a representative in the Croatian Parliament for the offence of the libel referred to in Articles 149(1) and 2. Penalty law. Darko Saturday is the 10th meeting of the Croatian Parliament and on the basis of Article 76. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 23 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament have immunity and without a decision of the Croatian Parliament against the MPs cannot be initiated or prosecuted. Council Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 1306/2013 of 12 December 2013 laying down detailed rules for the application of Council Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005 of the The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament unanimously, 6 votes to propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the following decision: during the term of the parliamentary term of office, the authorisation for the continuation of the criminal proceedings against the representative Darko Sobota, at the request of the attorney-in-chief Daniel Moslavec of Kalinovec, who is headed before the Municipal Court in Koprivnica, shall be suspended: K-294/2019-1 for the criminal offence of the libel referred to in Article 149(1) and (2). Penalty law. Explanation. The mandate-immunity commission has taken the principle that in the case of private prosecutors, this is mainly about criminal acts of libel and insults to propose to the Croatian Parliament a denial of approval. However, at the request of the State Attorney's Office as an independent and independent judicial body which is obliged to act against the perpetrators of criminal offences and other criminal offences, the Croatian Parliament will propose to grant authorisation to initiate criminal proceedings in order to allow the Constitution and the law to carry out the judicial authority independently and independently. The position of the Committee is that the Institute of Immunity has been established in order to protect the dignity of the duties, not in order to protect the representatives as an individual, and the conduct of the criminal proceedings as well as any actions that would have to be taken in connection with this could make it impossible for the representatives to act as his regular representatives, thereby affecting the work of the Croatian Parliament. I note that the criminal proceedings may continue after the end of the parliamentary term, since the statute of limitations does not run until there are reasonable reasons why the proceedings cannot be carried out. I'll continue with my colleague Frankovic. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament at the same session since 4 February discussed the request of the attorneys of private prosecutors of Dubrovnik TV d.o.o. from Dubrovnik and Orsat Zovka addressed to the President of the Croatian Parliament for the authorisation of the initiation of criminal proceedings against Mate Frankovic in the Croatian Parliament for the offence of the slander referred to in Article 149(1) and (2). Penalty law. Mato Franković is a representative of the 10th meeting of the Croatian Parliament and based on Article 76. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 23 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament have immunity and without a decision of the Croatian Parliament against the MPs cannot be initiated or prosecuted. The Commission shall be responsible for the implementation of this Regulation and shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament proposes, unanimously, to propose to the Croatian Parliament that the following decision be taken: during the term of the parliamentary term, the authorisation for the initiation of criminal proceedings against Agent Mate Frankovic, at the request of the attorneys of private prosecutors of Dubrovnik TV d.o.o. from Dubrovnik on a complaint filed by the Municipal Criminal Court in Zagreb on 7 August 2020 received under business number K-1429/2020 and on a complaint brought to the municipal court in Dubrovnik on 21 December 2020 received under business number 6K-209/20. During the term of office, authorisation for the initiation of criminal proceedings against Agent Mate Frankovic shall also be denied, at the request of the attorney-in-chief of private prosecutor Orsat Zovka, submitted to the Municipal Court of Dubrovnik under business number K-408/20 for the offence of the slander referred to in Article 149(1) and (2). Penalty law. The same explanation as in the case of fellow Sobota.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u29066	Thank you. I thank the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. I'm opening a debate. Dear Representative Zekanovic reported on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club. He's gone, he's losing his right. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Tomorrow we will continue at 9.30 Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the EU Index Regulation to be used as benchmarks, first reading, P.Z. Number 91. Thank you very much. Good night. The session was interrupted at 22.02 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u33887	This brings us to the end of the discussion of clubs and independent representatives, and we are going to the agenda as we have announced it. First today: - Final proposal of the Law amending the law on railways, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 110 The Proposer is the Government under Article. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia 172 and 204 and 206. The Rules of Procedure of HS. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation The Rules of Procedure adopted on the occasion of the establishment of the agenda a proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal by an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure. I would now ask the applicant's representative to give an additional explanation of the above-mentioned bill. With us is a respected State Secretary at the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, Alen Gospić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u33888	Dear Mr. President of HS. Honorable MPs and MPs. The proposal for a law amending the Law on Railways is further aligned with the provisions of Directive 2012/34 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 November 2012 in establishing a single railway space and, in accordance with the letter of formal notice, the certificate No. 2016/2171 of the transposition of Directive 2012/34 of the EU into Croatian legislation to which the Republic of Croatia committed itself to the European Commission in September 2020. The European Commission's assessment was that the Croatian legislation did not correctly transpose the provisions of the Article. The 46th century is 2nd, 5th and 6. Directive 2012/34 EU. in the case of a conflict of requirements for infrastructure capacity, the coordination procedure carried out by the infrastructure manager with the applicants. Proposed law, amended article. 61. The law on railways in such a way that it is legally and linguistically aligned with Art. The 46th Directive. Art. 61 refers to the situation in which several railway undertakings require the infrastructure manager to grant a route or access to railway infrastructure in order to be able to carry out their activities of the transport of passengers or freight and to require the same in, and the same is the same requirement in each other's cohesion. The relevant article shall provide for a procedure in which the infrastructure manager carries out with railway undertakings in order to ensure the best possible fulfilment of their requirements. It is important to respond and amend the relevant provision of the Law on Railways in order to fully meet the requirements relating to the conformity procedure. Finally, the proposal for a law amending the Law on Railways is intended to fully meet the requirements relating to the conformity procedure carried out by the infrastructure manager with the applicant in the event of a conflict of requirements for infrastructure capacity which, in particular, ensures the allocation of capacities in a fair and non-discriminatory manner and within the framework of EU law. In order to implement this law, there is no need to provide additional resources in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia, and I propose that this law be adopted in HS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u33889	Stay behind the pay phone because we've got replicas, we've got 10 replicas, the first one's for the respected colleague Miro Bulj, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u33890	Thank you very much. The Ministry and Croatian State Secretary have abolished the fast night train Zagreb-Split and we currently have only one line, just like 1925. From 2007 to today, the train that remained is 120 minutes slower per day than it is in 2007. You have so far invested nothing in the figure and Dalmatian railways, regardless of what the 2030 strategy says that rail transport is one of the most important segments of the roads to invest, zero kuna, nothing. You gave us Dalmatia and Lici a Christmas card that last 25.12. last year you canceled for the first time since the Homeland War, only during the Homeland War of 1925. That railroad was lifted. Why are you doing this to Dalmatia and to Lici? What's the reason you're doing this to Split and Dalmatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u33891	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u33892	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to thank the parliamentary representative for the matter. The situation is the following, meaning 2 of the most affected sectors in the country, and related to the covid crisis are in general the tourism sector and the transport sector. Perhaps the two most affected within the transport sector are the road transport sector, then air traffic behind it, and then the railways. Given the state of income, the national headquarters's side of decision which went extremely high-quality towards reducing the number of passengers or the presence of passengers on the train itself to 40%, we have concluded by evaluations and evaluations that one part of the railway track relating to the rail system or trains is approximately 10% By the way, the total trains... [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u33893	Secretary of State, you have to hold on for a minute, so please take care of it. Here you go, pal. Just before my colleague Katičić, here's my colleague Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u33894	Thank you very much, President. Secretary of State, you didn't understand. It's in the railroad. On the train...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u33895	My colleague, my friend Bulj, you must explain... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u33896	It's a stop on behalf of the MOST Club for 10 minutes on the railway law we're discussing. I'd just briefly explain what I said in the replica. You have cancelled the night train, the only line Zagreb-Split. Since 2005, you have not invested one lip and kuna in a figure and Dalmatian stripe. You're trains that could handle it, and that's what I'm going to discuss, that were moving to other lines. You were in the strategy until 2030 talking about investing in the railway line. You know what you did with the railroad? Yes, 120 minutes is slower today, two hours than in 2005, and otherwise European countries are investing in the railway line for safety reasons. Why are you doing this to Dalmatia? Then 1925. do not justify yourself by the crisis, the crown crisis has exposed all of you who are working against the interest and railways and traffic both Split and Zagreb, in this case the railway. Why are you doing this? Why did you cancel the night train? What's the reason? Why don't you invest anything? Why is the railway line from Split to Zagreb, you can get on a bike sooner, you can make Western films about what the railway line looks like and what you don't invest in. What's the reason? In the last 15 years. Two hours slower railway, coming from Split to Zagreb, so why are you doing this to Lici and Dalmatia? What's the reason? Is that economics? Is that traffic? Is that what Dalmatia cares about? Is that what you care about? It's not. You canceled our night train the only one, in 1925 it was better when it was a railroad.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u33897	The apartment will be approved. Is anyone else picking up for a break? If we don't, we'll continue at 10 o'clock and 45 minutes. It's 10.34 p.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 10.34 HOURS]] First in line, dear colleague Krono Katičić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u33899	The President-in-Office of the Assembly, respected colleagues from the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure, and here we are facing the proposal to amend the Law on Railways, which is implemented by the EU Directive and in the section as you have pointed out, in the section relating to the railway infrastructure manager as well as the process of resolving potential conflicts in that part. So please two brief further clarifications if possible. To what extent the implementation of this Directive will increase transparency and facilitate the handling of works and timetables, which is likely to benefit from better rail capacity, and I think it should link this to the question of what stage is the adoption of a letter from the railway sectoral policy which I think will further improve this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u33900	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u33901	Thank you for this question, Mr. Representative, regarding infrastructure capacity we must acknowledge that we have not yet had such ambiguity between operators or carriers that HZ Infrastructure has ended up in some kind of dispute between them over the coordination of that capacity, but at the request of the European Commission, the directive has further clarified the subject so that, in any way, even if there are any problems tomorrow to resolve this properly without any possibility that someone is unsatisfactory in this process. Regarding the issue of reform, this is one system and complexity, a complex process that will bring significant changes to the railway system in the next 10 years. So completely, it's taking a complete reform and it should take a lot more time to get into it with one serious insight.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u33902	Thank you. Comrade Petyr, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u33903	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, Sisak-Moslavina County has been hit by a devastating earthquake. Railway infrastructure was also injured in the earthquake. I'd like to know if you have any particulars as to exactly what damage the plan is and when it will be removed. The minister also announced that by 2030, 3.5 billion euros will be invested in railways in Croatia, whether there is room for reconstruction and modernisation of railways and in Sisak-Moslavina County. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u33904	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u33905	Dear MPs, thank you for asking, the earthquake has caused a lot of discomfort to the entire mammalian area and to the entire county. On the first mah, the first reports coming from HZ Infrastructure operator were said to have no significant damage and the network was released immediately the second day. Let us remember that we also gave fully this support freed and paid all those travelling by rail to, to Sisak-Moslavina County and from it. What I'm about to say is, the rail that is in the construction or reconstruction is completely restored to Sisak, and now this year the reconstruction ends until Sunja. We expect a continuation of the renovation in the next period from Sunja to Novska. The value of the currently estimated works is about 300 million kuna. And we believe that in the next period as planned and with the strategy we will be that part done to the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u33906	Thank you. Comrade Simičević, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u33907	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, here's how I understand this process of harmonising the law in law and language, and it's not a report on work, but as this debate suffers and broader terms, I'm going to ask you a question about art. 61, so if during the process of harmonising this timetable, we have codifying requirements, the manager will say, he has to bring, I think he should perhaps stand, more logically, he should, than must, just die must he, right? And this second question, when will this railroad come to Zadar? And tell me just how many other service providers you have left in the transport and have there been legal disagreements so far and how have you solved them? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u33908	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u33909	Dear Representative, thank you for this question, as regards compliance means infrastructure capacity, so far some major deviations have not been observed in the collapsing process, particularly at the request of the EU Commission, we have fully implemented this directive, and at this point we do not really expect any developments following the execution of such processes that would arise between operators using the meaning of the infrastructure capacity, i.e. the HZ network. It went, let's say consistently to the end that in any way avoid court proceedings or not give God, such events, and in that sense it is said. As for the railway for Zadar, about Zadar, as you know, we will try and it is included in the recovery plan, that is, thinking in the next period, from the existing frameworks and funds available to us, we believe that it will learn into the Recovery Fund plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u33910	Thank you. Comrade Dark-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u33911	Thank you very much, esteemed president of HS, Your Honor, Secretary of State. So, it's about one amendment to the law, so compliance with the EU directive, and I don't think there's anything controversial about it, but what I think should have been done to explain this change and supplement, so I'm going to ask you how many users, or carriers using rail infrastructure, how many requests you have for further use because what we're looking at, we can watch HZ Cargo, so it's freight traffic, that's what's always interested in the burden going and we see that year by reducing the percentage of how much HZ Cargo uses our rail infrastructure. So instead of using someone else, I'm curious about how many users there are, how many demands you have and whether there's something in solving that you haven't solved yet, and that would be good if we had some legal reasons, and then we could also evaluate this amendment and supplement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u33912	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u33913	Thank you, esteemed and esteemed MPs. As you know, in the Republic of Croatia, the freight market of transport has been fully liberalised, except for Cargo, 11 other operators operate means Cargo transport, in this law it is precisely that, as the number of users on the network and access to the network will increase, it is precisely up to the limit that a full test is being carried out and agreed before possible barriers to access to infrastructure capacity. What is very important, the market that works, Cargo is about 50 percent of the total share of the market, and the other 11 carriers hold about 50% of the market. I must say, at this point, to my enthusiasm, that this market is growing, not falling, but the freight transport market is now growing.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u33914	Now it's my fellow Stier's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u33915	Thank you, Mr. President. Secretary of State, you told us that the current law is not in line with the EU directive and that this situation must be corrected and I support that argument and this proposal, and I will take the opportunity to also support the initiative of your rapporteur and Government to correct another situation, which is that since the late 1970s Samobor has no railway connection with Zagreb. We know that there were more of these initiatives, to do so, but they did not meet the criteria for EU funding. Now, I hope that indeed this plan that the government has launched will be in line with the EU criteria and that there will indeed be construction of this railway, the 14km that connect the capital with Samobor.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u33916	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u33917	Thank you, dear Parliamentarian. The answer to that question is, as you said, going in the right direction, study documentation was made, a complete project was evaluated, what the EU Commission asked, i.e. the JASPERS evaluator, in the project, was said that because of the large number of views that were made from Zagreb to Samobor, it would be necessary to see what this solution would show that this number of positions would be reduced, so that it would make as much flow as possible on that part of the railway and that the trains would indeed experience their right function to reach from point A to point B in a certain shorter time, in this case from Zagreb to Samobor. And I believe it will be resolved very soon.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u33918	Comrade Cosic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u33919	Thank you, well-respected secretary of state, I welcome the efforts of the Croatian government and the Resoring Ministry of Insurance of the really important means of modernising the railway infrastructure. We are aware that the works are being carried out, but what we are also, we can see that the main infrastructure works, large infrastructure works are mainly done by foreign contractors, and we have, for example, in our company HZ Infrastructure, which is also an investor, Pručna ravine, a company that is qualified and has references and which is trained to build and maintain railways, cannot do so because it is in the investor system. Whether these two companies are being singled out to hire, have over 1,000 or moved into an agency, we know that Slovenia has settled this by moving investment into a railway safety agency.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u33920	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u33921	Thank you very much, MP, for this question. What I would like to point out is that we have a comprehensive reform of the railway system which includes also positioning companies in a new light, means literally the renaissance of the railway system within the framework of a letter of sectoral policy or modernisation of the restructuring of the railway sector, and then also the production of studies and national plans, HZ infrastructure has been given a very clear task, to settle the issue of railway buildings, on the table, you've made a good point, it's a company that has a huge potential, a building potential that needs to be positioned on the market or in HZ infrastructure, in a way that it truly achieves one important income and takes over one part of the market for which foreign companies are now working in a huge railway infrastructure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u33922	Comrade Dretar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u33923	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Secretary of State. I'm going to ask you something about building the Zapresic-Zabok railroad. Do you have any knowledge that there have been any machinations specifically related to the quality of the work? Because I heard certain stories that the EU supervisor had some grudges. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u33924	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u33925	Thank you very much, Mr. Parliamentary Representative. So, I have no idea about that, that knowledge that I have about the Zaprešić-Zabok railway, that it is in the finalisation, these technical parts of the work, that she thinks to complete that piece of technical work on the track itself, ending in the next few months, is that 5 or 6. i.e., finalize, after that you need to get appropriate permits and put the rail in motion, i believe at the beginning of the 9th month. or during this period certainly this year, which would make a significant contribution to the quality of life of the region but related to the continuation of this story, I will remind you that the preparation of the maintenance of the railway on the Zapresic route towards Krapina will also continue, and that this part of Zagorje, which is very special to me... Because I'm from that area, I'm getting a good result, so let's tell Zagorje and the city of Zagreb in one real light. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u33926	Thank you very much. Let's go to a colleague of Tomašević's, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u33927	Thank you. I have a question about the legislative changes to the Law on Railways of the previous work, where you have also enabled the institutional structure of the vertical of an integrated company or holding company. It means that this current situation is changing where all HH companies are completely separated. And as you know, Germany, Italy, Austria, France, all of them have holding companies and it has no guarantee of independence, Slovenia has holding companies with some guarantees of addiction, some countries like Ireland have an integrated company, we have opted for completely secluded companies that although they are state-owned, actually operate Maltas not against each other. So what moved there if you were already acting as the Government of Continuity in these legislative changes, why do we still not have a different structure, meaning the return of holding or vertically integrated companies?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u33928	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u33929	So the new structure of the railway system was headed there far back in 2005, so in 2006, the division of assets, holding, the separation of the company in 2012, 2013 due to the liberalisation of the railway market. Railway infrastructure as a system cannot belong to any system other than the state, the state is obliged to maintain and restore it, build it, while the other two companies, HZ Cargo, HZ passenger transport are on a fully liberalised market and must behave. And they can't receive anything in this sense cargo system, which is why it's liberalized, sometimes Cargo manages 100% of all rail movements, today manages about 50%, that doesn't mean we don't have to do a good analysis. As I have already mentioned, we have before us a reform of the railway system, then it will show strategies and national plans and these issues will open up whether they are a solution or well done in some period before this.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u33930	And the last line, my colleague Posavec the Sinner, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u33931	Thank you, Your Honor. Mr Secretary of State, any changes to the laws that are new to comply with the EU should certainly be welcomed because they are once again drawing us closer to the funds of cohesion funds that are of paramount importance for us to come to an average and evening with the EU, so here is my key issue. Now you mentioned in your colleague's response that strategic and national documents are being planned that will lead to this railway being, say, a priority in traffic connection, I'll translate it into myself. What I'm interested in, we already have trains on the Croatian railways, low noon, bent, which can reach a speed of 100, 120 km/h but they also have wireless Internet inside and all modern displays, but we don't have a railway that they can traffic by and reach 55 km/h unlike some TTV, let's say 320. When can we expect these concrete changes?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u33932	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u33933	So this is the year of the railroad, we're going into major railway reform, this way and I'm announcing a letter of sectoral policy and national plans to show it. What is important, rail infrastructure and road infrastructure will not be built overnight, it is a long process, it takes more than 10 years, but at that point, I can only assume, with this dynamic and pace some projects are hell in construction, some are in the making of studies, some are in a public competition, these are huge value projects and here someone mentioned today, these projects are worth 3 billion euros right now. As we approach clear EU funds by the end of April, this share of rail infrastructure financing will only grow. I believe that in the end, in 10 years, there will be more than those funds that have been mentioned invested in HH.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u33934	Thank you very much, we've come to an end with replicas so that you're state secretary, so far free, you can go back to your place because there's a debate going on in clubs and before that just a call if you want any of the representatives of the board? No, then we're going to the clubs, and first of all, it's Center and Voice's Club of Representatives, dear colleague Anka Mrak-Taritash, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u33935	Thank you very much, esteemed president of HS. Dear Secretary of State with an associate. We have before us a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Railways where we amend the provision that we agree with the EU directive because it is concluded that the directive is not properly transposed into Croatian legislation. The provision is clear, it is clearly defined what it is, it is clearly defined and how the reconciliation process will go, how it goes if we are in a situation where the infrastructure manager receives several requests, which then it does and ends at the end and with the dispute resolution system. And given that we really need to install it into our legislation and that it has to be defined, we have no big remarks about it. But every time a railway theme comes into this HS then it causes some other topics and some other discussions and it's good to discuss. I've heard several times what the secretary of state said from this pay phone, and that's a moving railway reform, it's a reform, it's about to start. When we talk about the railway, then we have to talk with two aspects, one aspect is the railway infrastructure, and the other is the users who use the railway infrastructure. We can have and produce the best possible trains, we can import perfect trains that develop certain speeds, but if you don't have the infrastructure or rail that's adapted to it, you're free of charge. So, little data, the first railway that was made in Croatia was the Wallani bridge-Sisak or in the area of 1862, our railways were generally made by Hungarians, not because they loved Croatia and because they wanted to invest rather than because they read their interests. And when you see little railway lines developing, they were exactly developing in the way that during the time of the Austrian-Hungarian Hungarians they were responding to the way they defined it. What do we have today? Today in Croatia, we have the following infrastructure, when it comes to railway lines then in Croatia we have 2,988 km of railway lines, when we compare it a little with other infrastructures on highway and highway roads at 1,306 km, and the entire network of roads that we have when you share both highways and state roads and county and local roads is approximately 26,894 km away. The railway, so I'm talking exclusively now about the rail infrastructure that countries recognize as the possibility of their progress, as the possibility of their development, we systematically neglected. This shows you the following information that is good to know, in passenger traffic only 2.5% of passenger traffic is carried by rail while the European average is 8%, and equally when it comes to Croatia 2019, 20 million passengers were transported, e.g. 2009 73.5 million passengers. If you don't maintain something, if you don't take care of something, if you don't reconstruct something properly all the time and don't build up on this situation. About the railway being the potential of Croatia, there are no choices whether they are parliamentary or local, and also European where it is not said to be the potential of Croatia. So, of the 27 EU member states, when you look at the state of infrastructure, we need to know that Cyprus and Malta have no railways, and then there's a little less of us, you see that Croatia is somewhere at the bottom. Investment in infrastructure is extremely important, it is important with several aspects. I'm always talking about this spatial planic aspect for the reason that when you make the railroad one day, you've made it. You can't make a house so it's some kind of bad house, so upgrade it a little bit, upgrade it and paint it, if it's a poorly chosen railway track, that's what I'm saying from the aspect of nature and the environment, you've done it once and for all. But about this one state that needs to have its development strategy one of the potentials of development of the Republic of Croatia is absolutely and I'm sure the railway for several reasons. The first reason is because it is the cheapest after river transport, the second reason because it is very acceptable, the third reason is that we look at the experiences of some other countries, the freight traffic takes place in most cases by rail and did not happen to the Hungarians worked and insisted on the railway track that went to Rijeka because of course it was the nearest sea because of the load and for everything else, but I hope that this time we live in the crown is the time that has passed and that we are somehow returning in time normally. In normal time Europe is a bit of a look, develops and takes place on the railways an awful lot of traffic. Young people, therefore, IT sector all who are some new generation are today much preferable to trains than planes for the simple reason that trains in terms of certain weather impacts, so the train does not mind fog, the train does not bother a number of other things, faster they come, trains come to city centres, in trains they can work all the time and there is no problem there. And I was four, five years ago when I was truly interested in what this project was like in the EU were two big projects that were connected to railways. There was one project that was connecting Bologna and Milan, and another project was of course in the Netherlands where they operate on the railway line. In the Netherlands, a whole part of the old space that was stored and went to some new part of the city and the first thing they did, they connected on the railway track and in the underground, so below the level, regardless of the high groundwaters, they built a new station to be close and to have a fast connection for other EU metropolises. And the second project that was the project that was Bologna – Milan, Milan no longer, has a strong industry that it still has today, has no possibility of further developing and did not want to develop further in terms of housing, but has recognised Bologna as potential and was therefore an interest in the railway track to live in Bologna and work in Milan. So, when we talk about infrastructure and when we talk about rail infrastructure, we're here with the little limp cat. And it really is. On several occasions, this pay phone heard the importance of the railroad, but let's finally recognize the importance of the railroad and start investing, by forcing that the heavy load goes to the railways, to be driven by railway infrastructure. That train quality will be the last problem. We have a Concar who has a long tradition of producing quality trains, we have something else, but we have no place to drive. And then of course what we have in public space is those jokes, what it looks like, how late it is. I have to admit, I'm happy to go back to some kind of, some past century although I shouldn't be coming back, just think about it from Zagreb to Vinkovac how fast it was 10, 15, 20, 30 years ago and how fast it was coming today. So, rail infrastructure and railways along with all that we have is the potential for development of the Republic of Croatia. If we recognize that, we have declared that we are, and we are not, essentially, one of the elements on which we will have a connection with other EU countries. If we don't do it and we're just saying that the reform now, then tomorrow, then the day after tomorrow, so I don't know which day, it won't be anything. But most importantly, it is important to recognise the importance of investment in infrastructure. Not only are we building a new one, but we're maintaining an existing one. So, on the existing infrastructure, and I'm going to finish there, we now have 1,505 train road crossings, 109 tunnels, 544 bridges, I'm not going to tell you that some of that and protected cultural heritage is protected because of the time it started, everyone has to contribute in which So you'd make a good contribution and give me something here. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u33936	We are going to a second debate, the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns, a respected colleague of Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u33937	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, respected colleagues and colleagues, respected promoters, we are talking about the Law on Croatian Railways, I am already mentioned today, and now I am glad that the promoters are here so that I can keep quiet and a concrete problem which is of course related to this law. If they do not believe to call the phone 060333444 and there will be detailed information about the organisation of the transport between Zapresic and Zabok and between Zagreb and northern Croatia. So, if you take the train from Zagreb to the north, you pass this section from Zapresic to Zabok by bus. And this project was supposed to end 1. In October 2019, it is said here in October 2019 that if I am not mistaken in 2012, I am sorry in 2021, and today is the 17th of February, so this project is about a year and a half late, a year and a half of a day late. Great. And then when we talk a little bit about the railroad, we have to mention the coronary crisis, then people land either in Zabok or in Zapresic, transport them to buses where, given that HZ is unable to organise a sufficient number of buses in these buses, more people are pushed in than there are seats, and there should be one third of the buses full under epidemiological measures. That's true. Check it out, check the truth, 40%, and there are more people than there are seats. So, in any case, the measures are being broken. So, from this point on, I call on HZ authorities to do a little work on this issue and let some citizens traveling north and north to Zagreb be able to respect epidemiological measures or not to endanger their health because on the one hand we all stand for health, and on the other hand we have ridiculous situations. But here's a little bit about this project, so I'm going to relate to this law. So, says the new projected speed of this, these tracks will be 120 km/h, super 102 km/h, and now we have to be happy, and TGV in France that exists for 30 years is going 320 km/h. Today the Chinese are making railroads that will go 600 km/h, and in 2021, we're a year and a half late with the project and for those 20-30 km tracks we have to be happy with 120 km/h. If our alignment with the EU is purely paper harmonisation, not what we really need to have European railways, then we don't need this. So, we need to be able to drive around Croatia as Frenchmen ride with TGV or Eurostar, or I don't know what line it means now. I will repeat, the specific problem of dealing with the transport of passengers on this stock, and another very important problem is that we act as if we are somewhere in 1970, so we electrify the railways and adapt them to the speeds that are funny for the EU today, for developed EU countries that are funny for China, funny for the US. But maybe here's one standard that exists in Bangladesh, so we decide if we're going to copy Bangladesh here, whether we're going to be driving on the roofs of the wagon soon, or maybe in this sense we're going to copy, copy Germany, France and some other country.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u33938	Thank you. All I ask is that we delete the pay phone and then start with the next debate, which is the club of representatives of the Most, two MPs, Miletic and Bulj, will speak. The first is the honorary colleague Miletic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u33939	Dear Mr. Jandrokovic, President of HS, Mr. Secretary of State with his associate, respected colleagues, colleagues, Croatian peoples. Today on the agenda we have two laws that are technical, technical laws, and the first of them is this Law on Railways. We are discussing them for a simple reason, because we have not transposed European laws precisely and quality for the first time, and that is not good. Much and too much time will be lost here today by discussing something that we thought had already been decided rather than discussing and deciding on issues that interest the citizens, the problems that bother them, instead of discussing measures against the crown of the crisis or how to counter corruption instead of dealing with the problems of the completed and blocked citizens, athletes who remain closed halls and are disabled in training, we fix mistakes. What mistakes? In the translations of the European Directives. But that doesn't surprise us. The government, like the government in the previous term, is praised for how many laws are passed, especially when it boasts the government in pre-election times, with a large number of passed laws showing itself populistly as something good, as something positive, as something valuable, as something constructive. When you look at the statistics that say clearly that the assembly in the last 9th session passed 7 hundred 35 laws, I will repeat once again 7 hundred Croatian peoples and citizens of the Republic of Croatia, 7 hundred 35 laws, and include hundreds of sublegal regulations, regulations, regulations, instructions, thousands of regulations, thousands that have been amended in one single term of government and parliament. And what is the quality of these laws that are often passed in emergency procedures, and very often over the knee of the ruling majority? While the prime minister and minister are cutting formal tapes for objects that have long been in operation, while the prime minister is handing out gifts, let me say, as at the time of Lord Trpimir, their mistakes are being corrected here and their incompetence is being covered up. With such a government, we'll have a hard time getting to high-quality railways. We in Rijeka and Primorje-Gorski County have been waiting too long for a new modern and fast railway from Rijeka to the Hungarian border that would make our Rijeka port competitive again. The announcements are that we will have it by 2027, so at least for now bury all the stone foundations, cut all the strips on that track to finally make this new one after a hundred and fifty years from the construction of the first railroad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u33940	He'll continue his colleague Bulj now, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u33941	Thank you. Once again, I will loudly repeat that this government has given Dalmatia and Lici the gift of the night train, the quick Split-Zagreb train, its decision to abolish. They brought us back to the times that were in 1925. The secretary of state here gives the answer unsuspecting that the crown crisis is to blame. Since 2005 Kuna, lipe is not invested in the railway from, in the infrastructure from Split to Zagreb, Kuna. On this route we have 120 minutes slower train today than in 2005, two hours, you get on the bike, you come on the donkey faster. At the same time, Prime Minister Plenkovic and Butkovic of HZ-Infrastructure Management Ivan Krsic talk about restoring the modernisation of railway infrastructure. In 2017, a transport development strategy for the Republic of Croatia was adopted for the period up to 2030. And... You've given a significant location to the railway infrastructure. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, in the programme of rebuilding and modernising railway infrastructure so far, the railway for the future does not have any projects, none for the character and the Dalmatian railway, none for the future. The only thing it's a shame it might change for tourism purposes or make Western films, for it's best, you'd even be ashamed at that time. The national model for Croatia, for a strategic document to consider the transport system strategy, points out that better integration of different visions will allow optimisation and efficiency and environmental impact and climate system. HZ Travel and Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure have abolished certain local train routes by changing the timetable 2020/2021 and changed the calendar for individual trains. Thus, the connection between Split and Zagreb is 423 km away when connecting only one train a day as it was said in 1925. when Split-Zagreb is now the only train from Split leaves at 8.35, and Zagreb is headed towards Split at 15:30. We cannot look at the night train Split-Zagreb only through profitous importance, we should also look at many details of rail transport from aspects and environmentals, transport security, and what is a decisive factor for investment in the EU world. The price of tickets is, of course, too high on long trips, and the services offered to passengers are catastrophic. If the prices were lower, trains would be fuller, if you were doing something in HZ then our people would be much more satisfied and use the train, but nothing is done on that railway towards Dalmatia. If it were private property, would social directors treat their property as they treat the railroad? Croatian HZ Travel transport in October 2020 introduces a new line of trains Zagreb-Osjek-Zagreb and in order to supplement pulls a set of 7123 tilt train. So they're pulling the train that was driving on Split-Kaštel Stari-Split's route in Split's train park remains two furnitures only 7122 and 7123 and this locomotive 204. The series this one can only drive Kaštel Stari-Split and vice versa, and this is questionable due to poor maintenance and old age 1981. HH buys new trains under... none of them are intended for Dalmatia because it does not meet the requirements of mountain traffic. Sinj had a Sinjska Rera long ago, from Split known and sang Rera, which was the link between Split and Sinj, which was shut down early in the 1960s. She was better at the time. Blue Rera faster, better, more efficient than what you've done with HH. I repeat, no kuna has been invested today compared to today, and since 2007 it has been slower for two hours. So two hours in the last 15 years slower track and we have a train from Split to Zagreb. You will be faster on your bike, faster on your bike and you can rest in a few places than you will by train from Zagreb to Split as much as you have invested in it. And I suggest that it is a shame to change it, to make Western films, to play Indians and cowboys and to mock yourself by opening stone foundations in Dalmatia now in pre-election time and petting the eyes of the Croatian people, to the people of Dalmatia, Split, like. There's a lot more of you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u33942	Thank you. The next club of MPs will be the SDSS on behalf of which the respected representative Anja Shimpraga will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u33943	Dear Vice-President of the HS, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Railways, which is adopted in order to further harmonise Article. 61st of Art. In 46, we have a single European railway space. What we need to talk about here are facts that point to catastrophic railway infrastructure, poor working conditions, discomfort to passenger needs, neglect like and Dalmatia, and endangering traffic safety by interrupting work at night. According to the European Commission's annual report on transport in the EU, Croatia is the worst in the EU when it comes to the efficiency of rail services. Still problem no. 1 transport sector in Croatia are railways significantly lagging behind the EU average. Obsolete and limited rail infrastructure results in low quality of services and preferring other modes of transport, for example road infrastructure where in our country infrastructure is significantly better quality. But costs and negative environmental impacts are much higher in road traffic. In Croatia, only 5% to 6% of the planned basic rail network of Europe was built while the EU average is between 50% and 60%, which means Croatia is ten times behind the EU average, and when we talk about EU members with excellent rail traffic, it is much more. The total length of the railway network operated by HZ Infrastructure is 2,617 km and according to HZ Infrastructure, 980 km of network is electrified. 536 stations, 109 tunnels, 544 bridges are held on the network. The railways were old, they lasted as long as they naturally affected speed, the same network in the past performed four times the traffic of goods and three times the traffic of passengers. The number of employees has been reduced multiple times. In particular, poor productivity is called in state-owned companies related to rail transport, such as HZ and it is found to have a negative impact on the overall railway sector. In the European Commission's report, it recalls that competence in the rail sector combined with modern infrastructure creates jobs and can generate growth in the Croatian economy but unfortunately there is neither competence nor modernisation in Croatia. It is also noted that trains in Croatia do not have the appropriate realistic approach for passengers with reduced mobility, for example for those in wheelchairs. At the end of 2020, a decision is made to abolish the Zagreb-Split nightline. The decision is made to abolish the replacement bus line Knin-Zadar, the Rijeka-Osjek line in the morning, which daily travels by children and employees of the train and technical school in Moravica and all due to the reduction of the revenues caused by the coronary virus. High school students and students from Kistanj wonder how to get to Zadar, Grandma Milka from Gračac can't go to a doctor's appointment in Zagreb and the work of the station is limited in a way that no more night shifts, staff receipts are reduced significantly. Many conversations have been made, the actual picture has been tried and the actual picture from the field and the individual lines has really been returned, but that's not where our problems have stopped. For others, we believe that these lines will start again with the beginning of the tourist season. It is therefore also necessary to find a model of financing or co-financing in agreement with municipalities, cities and counties, as well as to hear the voice of the Croatian Railway Unions. Knin used to be the hub of all the stripes, not today. Today there's no connection on the highway, with a small number of bus lines, but there are people waiting for a better time. They had a union railway for the ports of Sibenik, Zadar and Split, it was really of great importance. Its renewal, which requires huge investments, would improve the rapid flow of goods and people and demographically devastated areas of both Bosnia and Croatia, would give it a chance to develop. That is why I sincerely hope that using European funds will significantly change all of this. The announced investments in the modernisation of Croatian railways around 3.5 billion euros and by 2030, I hope, means 681 km of two-way tracks that we will have and 40 new passenger trains would arrive. The opportunity in this new seven-year period where the EU increases the budget to about 100 billion euros is the one relating to transport. And finally, there are things that we can't look at from a cost-effectiveness angle, it's important to feel and recognize the needs of those at risk. We're not going to wait for nature to warn us again and we're going to have banana scenes in other environments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u33944	Thank you, the next Club of Representatives will be that of the SDP and on behalf of him and will speak to the esteemed representative Sinisha Hajdaš Doncic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u33945	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Although it seems that this amendment of the law is actually going to say let's go under quotes, that someone is not offended, "cosmetic", because there is an infrarement procedure or a European Commission procedure is being initiated, therefore towards the Republic of Croatia, and in fact it can tell us about something that has already happened in the rail system, which is the complete liberalisation of goods or cargo traffic and is probably the part and is encouraged by what are 4 or 5 operators, which is domestic, which, by the way, has therefore entered Croatia and what we predicted to happen even a few years ago, that state operator Cargo is actually going to lose a very large "economic cookie" or economic income, I do not say profit, from traffic, therefore, Cargo is today at less than 50%. So, less than 50% as a state operator. As for rail passenger traffic, so I don't mean to be critical of the ministry at all, I have no reason to, we know that without, of course, state subsidies can't survive, so as well as some other forms of transport. As much as the state wants, this is a key issue, so so so many "non-performable" if we look at only the economic component, the lines and drive. So it's always been within about half a billion kuna, because we need to know who's even interested in the railway system, that under 10%, actually, if we're looking at only the economic aspect of the entire rail approach, it's just under 10% of the railroad is "erable", so everything remains dependent on the will of the state. And what happened to us now? So we, I'll dare say, of course, that society didn't direct democracy in the early 2000s decided that we would invest in the roads, and we as a society made a decision that we would invest in highways and there was a huge public debt there but it was still a message. We are building highways, Croatia's tourism state, so you have no resources at that time for both. And that's a fact. It's also a fact, it's in 2012 somewhere, that the entire conflict of the HH system then had 17,000 employees. Why? Because it's just like the SFRY, and so is the Republic of Croatia, the rail system for what it served? I hope you know that, as an amortizer, right? Social protection, people get jobs. So these are the only facts. And then, let's say it was solved, and now I think in the total system that makes up the three main components, there's probably about 10 thousand employees. Maybe even something smaller, but it doesn't matter now either. So there are some things I'm going to say, changes have happened. Now what we can worry about in this whole story, so I can cry too because I come from Krapina-Zagorje County, that they don't now drive some lines or some lines of trains, so that's okay, that's one part of the population important but that's not the essential issue of the development of rail and infrastructure and providers in Croatia. The essential question is that we concentrate on large under quotes of urban centres, so Zagreb, Osijek, Split and Rijeka, and that at this point the gross investment is not dominated by the European rail strategy, which is building, let's be honest, therefore, only the goods supply routes that go from the port of Rijeka to the Botov to Hungary no matter what route it is, it is quite irrelevant whether they go through the Gorski Kotar, if we go through the plain track, it is actually a secondary question, but to see what our priorities are, therefore, from the very fact of the ecosystem, the availability of so-called. daily migrants, so I say from those satellite settlements which are around Zagreb, around Split, around Osijek, around Rijeka and how in fact the population from that 30, 40 km radius can therefore be animated to use the railway network. So, it's good that you've continued this project of building trains with Končar probably and part of Gredela, it's okay, we've had to finance it ourselves, you can do it now because you've opened up the perspective, you can transfer it under quotes our money, the EU, it's our money and it's okay. So this system will change but it will remain a key philosophical question for you, are we as a society ready to make that turn and accept the railroad as a modern participant in the development of new traffic to say not only funds but also some new traffic paradigms. It means whether we are going to use what we can use, whether we are going to use the population around Zagreb, whether we are going to use what we can use, which is connecting airports, not those silly tram solutions, but by train, I say in both Zagreb and Split. And that's the way we're going to put it, Castle, that's what we're going to say in the whole story. But that depends on what you know about? Most about the state's initiative and their strategic approach. And then we'll see if there's going to be a subsidy which is good, whatever Mr. Boric is always very much to say so, I apologize for calling you against some kind of system, but I'm telling you that it's good, that these are European solutions that national infrastructure service providers are paying out of fuel excise duty, that's good. That's how you stimulate, develop networks, etc., and then it'll depend on us whether or not we're going to increase the PSO contract and say ok, so we're interested. Here I give you one then and regional that from Zabok to Zagreb we have more trains, but we need to know that someone has to pay for it, someone has to pay for it because in 2023 if it hasn't changed, if we're not going to ask for more extension, there you can correct me now, we'll have to under quotes and other travel operators, so let them use HZ infrastructure quotes. And we can all fantasize about building some railroads, it's going slow, it's not highways, it's changed regulations, environmental impact studies that used to be, remember how highways were built without anything, half of them now have no applicable permits, they're probably not even fixed, it's true, because it doesn't go through anymore. But that's why I say I call on that society, Parliament, to actually make a national consensus on what and how and how we can improve in this case rail infrastructure. And lastly, I don't have much to add about the amendments to the law itself, I repeat that I don't offend you, so it's really a cosmetic amendment to the law to get in line with that EU legal expression that it requires of us, but also to warn in that amendment of the law that it is necessary to verify the provider correctly, i.e. the service provider HZ Infrastructure in which it will actually implement that law. Will it be public, transparent, accessible to all, will it only be a crucial factor? So there's a lot of questions, I hope that's going to be dealt with by sublaws or regulations, that HACOM has as little to do as possible. Here, thank you very much and thank you all for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u33946	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives will be the HDZ, on behalf of which the respected representative Pero Ćosic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u33947	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear state secretaries with co-worker, co-worker and fellow MPs, the proposaler's representative pointed out that the proposed law was passed because of further compliance with the EU's Directive establishing a single European railway space. The Article of the Law on Railways relating to the situation when the requirements of railway undertakings have been awarded by the infrastructure manager in a collapsing manner. It is now prescribed that the infrastructure manager conducts the procedure with railway undertakings in order to ensure that their requirements are met and that they can carry out their activities, which is the transport of passengers and cargo. In practice so far, as we could hear on the parent board, and today the Secretary of State has said something about it, the infrastructure manager successfully solves these coordinating and there has been no problem in this matter, but it is certainly necessary that this issue be regulated and the relevant legal provisions especially when Croatian rail traffic achieves its planned development, I am sure that there will be an increase in the number of such requirements. In this decade where the focus of railways is both in the Republic of Croatia and in the EU, it is a challenge but also an opportunity for Croatia as a country with a developed road network, with a long-standing maritime tradition to join the establishment of a single European railway space and achieve sustainable mobility. But unlike road and maritime traffic, the situation on our railways is almost incomparable to the state and trends of world and European railways. In Croatia currently operate 3 state railway companies, HZ Passenger transport, HZ Cargo and HZ Infrastructure which is also a national railway infrastructure manager. The revenues of travellers due to the pandemic of the coronaryvirus, both from ticket sales and other revenues, fell by 100 million kuna in 2020, however, the rebalancing of the state budget amount of subsidies under the PSO contract increased by 19.5 billion kuna and the PSO contract itself for 2020 was paid in full and for the time period when it was not, when travel was suspended by decision of the Civil Protection Staff. Regardless of the problems with the pandemic, the modernisation of the passenger transport HZ fleet is under way and over the next 4 years 60% of this company's rolling stock will be restored, and 68 new low floor electric trains will be on Croatian railways. I am pleased that domestic companies are involved in this modernization and here, Croatia can be proud that it has a company that can produce these trains that it produces for more than a decade. Unfortunately, I was also speaking in a replica about the construction industry which is not sufficiently represented because large railway construction investments are still being done by foreign companies, and these new electric trains will be trafficling at a speed of 160 km, of course, those shares that have been renovated, whether they are large, main corridors, whether in suburban areas, around Zagreb or other renewed shares, which will improve local and regional integration and mobility, which is expected of us and our citizens. As passenger transport dropped dramatically last year due to the pandemic, freight transport increased so that a total of 15 million tonnes of goods were transported in 2020. In the Republic of Croatia today, we have 11 rail transports that are realising, carrying out freight transport services, but unfortunately, our state-owned company, HZ Carga, is constantly falling. By liberalising the market from 2016 to 2020, Cargo lost about 50% of its market share, State aid, which was given at the end of last year in the amount of 50 million kuna to this company, is intended to resuscitate losses and consolidation of business and according to some, here are the findings, if this financial consolidation is successfully completed by July, HZ Cargo has the possibility of a sustainable business and retaining market share, given the growth and needs of the market. The railway is certainly a more sustainable option compared to the roads, the development of rail infrastructure will connect the east and west with modern railways, remove traffic fragmentation and bottlenecks in European transport routes, and also link different modes of transport to multimodal transport across Europe. Since almost 55% of Croatia's rail network refers to rail lines that are important for international transport, it is the main TNT network that will contribute to the objectives of the European Green Plan to modernising our rail network. On this occasion, I will also commend the Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Croatia for fully harmonising, here, national legislation on the Law on Railways with European Regulation, which is certainly the basic assumption of interoperability of rail transport with other EU members, and, behold, after years of non-investment in rail infrastructure, has launched significant investment projects in this transport sector. Large works on the Republic of Croatia-1 and the Republic of Croatia-2 sector are being carried out, studies are being done, new shares are being designed, up to 2025 in the development of railway infrastructure are planned to amount 14.2 billion kuna, of which 31% will be related to the reconstruction and modernisation of existing railway infrastructures, and 69% are planned for construction of new railways and railways, and 75% of the planned investments will be co-financed by EU funds. But in order to bring the railway into the 21st century with investment and its infrastructure, it is necessary to know how to manage the rail system rationally and effectively, and by shutting down HZ Holding today we have 3 separate companies that have no communication and connection whatsoever, and this is exactly what my colleague Bulj was talking about, that one company, because of the rationality of its business, cancels the train, and another company has additional costs again, we have no, no transport, no use of railways, have their own people there all the time. I think that we should make not only this horizontal coordination but also the vertical integration of these societies, so here, I wonder if this mentioned development strategy will give new solutions because we are aware that these solutions have not proved effective so far. Better system management models can be seen with our neighbours and Austrians, Slovenians,... The Italians and the Germans and the French have better governance models, and I think it's a good model in which we should look a little bit, which certainly strengthens their rail sector. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Covida-19 epidemic has had an exceptional impact on the transport sector, the most important thing now is to achieve sustainable mobility and to provide users with more accessible and cleaner alternative modes of transport, such as rail transport because the green transition is our orientation and our future, therefore, I propose that the amendments to the Law on Railways are in the direction of an expected increase in rail transport because it provides a way to address the situation required by the Infrastructure Manager with the applicant in the event of a collapsing requirement for infrastructure capacity. And finally here, I should definitely say that the HDZ Club will support this final bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u33948	Thank you very much. The next club of representatives is the green-left bloc on behalf of which the respected representative Tomislav Tomašević will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u33949	Here's my thanks to the chairman. The subject is the Law of Railways. As a green-left option, the railway is an extremely important kind of traffic and transport since it is clear that the benefits, the ecological advantages of the railway itself, and it is also important for even spatial development, so if you want for the overall economic policy since it has a great multiplier effect it is as important and as regards the comfort of the journey itself as some speakers before me pointed out that the railway has a number of advantages in relation to all other modes of traffic, for example, road traffic versus traffic, for example, for example, air transport in relation to unfavourable weather conditions, the railway can all somehow compensate for its advantages and on the other hand is more comfortable, at least for me it is more comfortable, so that we now have even a trend that many people in Europe use trains as night trains, prefer to take the night train and sleep on a train and in a city where they need to be on a business meeting, so that they go to a lot of time at the airport, so that they take a lot of time at the bus time, so the bus time, so that they go to a lot of time to the bus time to the bus time to the buss, and the bus time to the bus time to the buss, So from that perspective, I believe that the railway is the transport of the future, and I would like Croatia to finally go that way. In Croatia everyone is unhappy with the railways, it is an absolute consensus, no one thinks it's good what we have now, but there are 3 some dominant narratives, I don't think either one of them is completely accurate. The first narrative is why it is so, the first narrative is because, because we have state-owned mostly rail companies or railway services since although Cargo now has 50% traffic, on the market HZ-Pputical transport is de facto the only one on the market in terms of passenger transport, and we have a state-owned company that operates means HZ-Infrastructure, HZ-Infra which manages Infrastructure. And now some people say if they privatized it, if private companies did it, then it would be much more efficient and better. I don't agree with that. On the other hand, we have numerous examples where that is not the case. Not only did privatisation not lead to, to such effects, the best example is Great Britain, they even returned to the public hands of the infrastructure manager that they once privatized, but even now it's quite a bad quality of rail services in Great Britain, I say that as someone who lived for a time in Great Britain and is constantly having a debate whether the railway sector is going to return to public hands to some extent. On the other hand, what is another narrative is that the problem is that it is a monopoly and now liberalisation will lead to a better quality of services. If you want to have an example of Great Britain again as the most liberalised country in terms of rail services in, in Europe where, I say, the quality of rail services is certainly not the best, and on the other hand you have the example of probably the best rail system in the world, which is the Swiss rail system according to numerous indicators where you definitely do not have the liberalisation or approximately as you have in other EU Member States. Now, the third narrative is that the problem of underinvestment in railways, especially rail infrastructure, is to some extent water is held, but we also see that, above all, the problem in governance, that some countries that have invested more have had worse results, on the other hand, that some who have less invested have had better results. What is certainly a problem in Croatia, and I would like that because these legislative changes have already made the Law on Railways several years ago to finally take advantage of what everyone else knows and we do not need to reveal hot water. If countries like Austria, France, Germany, Italy have a holding company that co-ordinates however not to be against each other against others because we now have a situation that both HZ-Infra and HZ-Cargo and HZ-Pputski transport, all three companies in full 100% state-owned property behave so that the biggest enemies, the biggest enemies, each looking only their own, their own interest, are led by various judicial and property litigation etc.. From the perspective of the citizens, they think it's all one system, they don't care what 3 separate companies are, especially HZ-passport and HZ-Infra. When they get to the station, they see it as HH. From that perspective if other major European countries have kept holding on to why we were bigger Catholics than the Pope, why did we go completely separate companies? We have seen that this has led to a major problem in coordination, so this is also allowed from the perspective of the EU directive on liberalisation. We can have holding, we can have in certain circumstances even a vertically integrated company and we see that a good part of EU member states has in this way organized companies that provide rail services, then let's not be, not inventing hot water but when we see that this does not work, 2012. We've completely separated the companies and the last 8 years. We can't see positive trends. So if we see that that doesn't work, then let's even though we've already made it legal because we've seen that it doesn't work I don't know what's waiting for 2.g. so as not to finally make that reform. On the other hand, I am not saying that Slovenia, for example, has a neighbouring country also, Latvia, Poland, means some even have integrated companies Ireland, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Hungary, so that from that perspective they really shouldn't be more Catholic than the Pope. As for the state of the infrastructure, I think everyone knows that, the data is devastating, not only have we not modernised Infrastructure in the last three decades, we haven't even funded the basic maintenance of that Infrastructure, and that's why it's in that state. She's in worse shape than she was three decades ago, that's the problem. Not that we haven't modernised, but we haven't even maintained what we had, and that's why we have a condition like this right now, so we have that kind of data. So we have about the ratio of the two-way rails of only 10%, the EU average is 33%, we have rail electricity about 37%, the EU average is 54%, the trend of the traffic rate reduction because we haven't maintained a rail network at all, so on only 4% of the network is possible to drive more than 140 km/h. What is the average, the average speed of passenger trains in Croatia is 48 km/h, disaster, disaster. So it is clear that we have not adhered to traffic strategies, it is clear that every time we have said how much we will invest in the last two decades in railways compared to air transport compared to road transport we did not stick to it. We did not respect any national investment plan in rail infrastructure. 90% of the investment in each of these plans has remained compared to what we promised in relation to what we realized and that's why we are now where we are. However, I say we have some EU funds now, we need to decide wisely what it is in our interest, so that the railway is not only of course they must have this burdensome role and the role of industrial reasons, etc., but also not to ignore this role of connecting transport between cities. Every intercity transport is subsidized. You've also been subsidized by a bus, not just a railroad. About 50% of your costs of rail transport are subsidized at European level. If that's the case, then I don't see why we should continue to privatize, so we'll subsidize the privates even for their profits. What we consider to be the recommendations that this reform that will likely follow these cosmetic changes should contain the following, reorganise the resolution ministry, the integrated railway infrastructure and transport administration. We now have not only separated HZ Infra from HZ Travel and HZ Cargo but even within the Ministry of Transport we have separated infrastructure administrations from the transport administration, it has no UK in its ministry. More Catholics than the Pope again. To establish a cross-sectoral body for the national rail system, investment in rail infrastructure should be 50% of the investment in the total transport infrastructure. After as much money as we've invested in other modes of transport air and road I think it's really time for the railroad to get the role it deserves. To raise public subsidies to HZ Passenger transport and to consider subsidising individual cargo shipments as well as within the rules and EU directives do countries such as Austria, for example. Return to Holding or a single vertically integrated company, give up the privatisation of HZ Cargo. Only Estonia, Hungary and Britain privatized their freight carrier. Estonia put him back in state hands because there was a catastrophic experiment, Hungary is trying to get him back in public only Britain has no state freight carrier. And you know who has the biggest share? Deutsche Bank, meaning German State cargo carrier on the UK market as regards freight transport. So pure ideology, so the state can't manage well, so the state and their businesses will manage better. In the broader debate, define the criteria of assessing the work of public railway undertakings, form a board of railway stakeholders at HZ Holding level, increase the number of workers on the Supervisory Board, encourage the rounding of the trade union railway scene and what is also important, establish an association of rail service users as there is, for example, in Germany that rail service users whether it is companies, i.e. private companies or physical users shall also participate in the supervision of the work of railway undertakings.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u33950	Thank you. The next club of MPs will be that of the Homeland Movement on behalf of which the respected representative Davor Dretar will speak. [[Thank you very much.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u33951	Thank you very much. Good afternoon, everyone. Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Secretary of State with his associates, dear colleagues and colleagues. This is what I want to tell the Croatian public to begin with, is that we are doing it right here, so one small technical change of law because we need to make an amendment to the EU directive. Here's where I'm going to ask a simple question right now. Why are we doing this? Because the assessment says that “Croatian legislation did not correctly transpose the provisions of a specific article. ” So let me ask the Croatian public here who is involved in the translation of texts or European directives? So, in this case too, is someone's cousin, godmother, or brother-in-law who translates texts, then that doesn't work well. But to this I will link another piece of information, our dear secretary-general of the European Commission has officially informed us of the non-compliance with this Directive on 15 May 2020. nine months ago. It took us nine months to decide to get close together. Because we know, and it has already been exposed by individual representatives here to the Croatian market, so to explain to the Croatian public exactly what is going on here. There are many companies dealing with the transport of railways to Croatia. Some only drive passengers, some drive loads, some maintain the mentioned railway infrastructure, short and clear lines, railway crossings, stations, etc. We also have some foreign operators who came here and it's obvious or the question is whether a complaint was received on the 15th of May, and then the European Commission responded and sent us a message, hey, please change the provisions of your current law, if anyone has complained. Here, in this law, we define the process of compliance. Only to quote several items in this article ‘at the request for the allocation of infrastructure capacity which are the collegiate manager of the infrastructure conducts the conformity procedure in order to ensure the best possible matching of the route with the requested requirements’, so simply at one point in time on a transport line or transport want to operate, carry out two or more economic operators. And of course, since, as in life in one place, there can't be two people, not one person can be in two places at the same time, it has to be determined. And here we've been re-exposed and I'm going to say again, this text of this provision that we are changing here in no way defines how a conformity procedure is conducted. So, the manager suggests some other infrastructure capacity, the people's language says, the company and you're going to drive there, and Company B won't be able to do it exactly this way, but you're going to have to do it with some other railroad or wait for this train to pass, so we're going to let another one go. So we're expecting sublegal acts that would precisely define the implementation of the consent procedure because we don't see them here. Since many colleagues and colleagues have also touched on Croatian railways, it was really not difficult to collect certain data, as soon as a person is caught by any or any internal site and enters Croatian railways, there is a lot of worrying data. Let's start with the best in Europe, our fastest trains, EU trains, in Spain on average, drive 199 km/h, with us, at least one statistic, 58, but unfortunately that's falling. The reasons are clear, of course, outdated rolling stock, i.e. old railway compositions and of course inadequate transport infrastructure, short and clear, old non-quality railways. We are twice as slow as Austria, Poland, far slower than Greece, Hungary, Bulgaria and Slovenia, as well. There is something we have accelerated against BiH, Serbia, Macedonia and Albania. Well, I suggest we be proud for three seconds. Yeah. It has recently been announced that Croatia is the worst in the EU for the efficiency of rail services. This has also been shown by the EU Commission's latest survey, and let me read you a few lines from it. Obsolete and limited rail infrastructure results in poor competitiveness, low quality of services and preferring other modes of transport, for example the road infrastructure in which the infrastructure is significantly better quality. Costs and negative effects of road traffic are significantly higher and more negative. Only 5-6% of the planned European railway network was built in Croatia, while the average is between 50% and 60% of EU members. So, my dear ladies and gentlemen, we are 10 times behind the EU average, and even more so for members who achieve above average results. One more thing, not only old trains, not only old, outdated and unmodernised railways, but also the fact that all these already mentioned 3 companies that make up the Croatian railway Corps, but for years by ruling ones, whether on the left or right side of the political spectrum, are used, of course, for employment. There, once again, the magical Mr. Google helped, so here I was, sitting here, walking through a time machine of the Croatian Railways affair, that is, various of their companies. We go first in 2017 in the past term of the current party in power, when we found out that a former minister at the Administration appointed a brother and brother-in-law and, of course, very aggressively defends, justifiably or not, we will not talk about it here. We return in 2018, we don't go much, whether, in reverse, we have a story about another affair that weighs nearly 5 million euros when HZ gets snow cleaners. After a long and complicated, extremely non-transparent process of public procurement, when we finally got a snowman, it was found that the same, or delivered, did not correspond to the agreed, so it does not correspond to the requested, let alone the technical documentation delivered, these snow-cleaners had to have 2 engines, we got only one. I have to warn you, how much of this you have to be an expert to miss such a little thing as a snow-cleaner engine that's in technical dimensions of 2.5 x 1.60. So, absolutely not even close to some nanotechnology we're swearing to in the future. But if we start in 2010 when USKOK seriously scratched on one affair, we even got parts of the police statements, or statements given to USKOK. One of them again, I quote, I got 60,000 euros, that was a silence fee. The second statement, I was making up services, HZ was paying them, we were dividing the money according to the agreed rules, in that money laundering and withdrawal affair more than 3 million euros were drawn. There, ladies and gentlemen, not only must we, of course, bring quality thought-out plans to develop and improve the Croatian rail system, but we must primarily start from corrupt political structures, we call them whatever. Any shortcut. The fact is, and this is what the Homeland Movement will advocate and advocate, to raise awareness of the need for responsible public officials of money in Croatia, as well as the material things of the Croatian taxpayer to be held extremely responsible and to try to make the most of it. Pulling the maximum in this case means providing Croatian passengers and those who want to translate goods into a Croatian rail system, quality, fast and accurate service. Of course, we can, building railways, modernising the rolling stock, but also important, acting responsibly in all the leading positions in the Croatian rail transport system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u33952	Thank you. The next club of representatives will be the IDS on behalf of which the respected representative Marin Lerotić will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u33953	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State with his associates. Today we are here because, behold, we have managed to bring the amendments and the additions of the law to European directives after we have received certain reminders and pucks of what is happening to us too often, so I am afraid at all to imagine what it would be like to have written a new law. However, it is a topic for another debate. I think we need to use today's debate to point out all the problems HH has. So far, the emphasis has largely been on road infrastructure, and it really needs to be acknowledged that many things have been done and modernised in the past few decades, especially when we are talking about highway construction. However, the railway is in the second plan and completely neglected. First of all, I think of an Istrian railway that is completely forgotten by the state, and in recent times we could even see that the revision of certain train lines is also being considered, which means, otherwise, in translation, shutting down the same train, but fortunately, it gave up, and the Istrian railway was able to survive, but when you get on the railroad, when you see the tracks, when you see the trains, then you see that survival on the apparatus. The Istrian railway deserves comprehensive revitalisation and modernisation in order to exploit the potential that Istria has as the economic and touristiest Croatian region. The need for a modern railway is particularly expressed in central Istria where the developed railway system could be an incentive for further economic development and an increase in the quality of life of all residents, from students and students travelling by train to schools and colleges to workers who use to go to work. As an IDS representative, I can say that local and regional policies in Istria are extremely interested, that in the years that come in cooperation with the state and HZ and, of course, with the help of European funds, we are modernising the Istrian railway and that it is finally appropriate for the 21st century. The benefits that we as a state can have from the development of the railroad are multiple. A quality railway can be one of the levers for economic development in this economic crisis as it will lead to further development of Croatian ports and their positioning on the map of Europe. There is the potential of Rijeka port in the development of freight transport, which is huge and this section of the railway from Rijeka to Zagreb must be one of the priorities in the next period. In the tourism sector we also see announcements for this tourist season, arrival of guests by train from Central Europe, for example the Czech Republic. It is obvious that there is an interest in traveling by train because it avoids long columns and traffic in summer months and offers passengers a new experience and comfort of travel. That is why we need modern railways, modern trains so that we can open lines to other Central European countries and offer additional transport opportunities. I would like to mention this example of a successful initiative already launched by the Istrian Development Agency as part of the cross-border cooperation between Italy-Croatia, to allow the carriage of bicycles by train on Pula-Buzet, which aims to potentiate the multimodality and use of cycling trails in central Istria as additional tourist facilities. If we had developed a railway, there would also be a greater need for the purchase of modern trains for the transport of passengers and new cars, for the transport of cargo and this would be an additional opportunity for our industry, such as Končar, Djuro Djakovic and others to increase production and start new employment. Another advantage of rail transport compared to road or air is greater acceptability in terms of environmental impact. The use of modern electric trains reduces total emissions of harmful gases to the environment and improves the quality of life of our citizens in this respect. It is obvious, therefore, that the advantages of rail transport are numerous and that Croatia, in the years to come, must strongly move towards modernising its railways. As far as expensive infrastructure projects are concerned, it is necessary to make maximum use of the European resources available to us. Modern railway is needed by all Croatian regions, and Istria, Slavonia, Dalmatia and the north, not just around Zagreb. It is therefore necessary to set objective and clear rules in determining the modernisation and construction of certain new shares in order not to allow one region to get a modern track for 5 and another for 15 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u33954	Next is the Club of Representatives will be that of the CNS and independent representatives on behalf of whom the respected representative Vladimir Bilek will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u33955	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected state secretaries with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. So the proposal to amend the Law on Railways, which we are discussing at today's session, is essentially in one of its works, mostly in language and legal alignment with the relevant EU directive, and I therefore assume that this legislative proposal will be broadly supported in this High House, but the exceptional importance of rail infrastructure and the situation in which it is today, has invited me to report and to participate in today's debate. About 700 passenger trains and around 110 freight trains were driven daily on railways in the Republic of Croatia. There is a general agreement on the fact that the state of the rolling stock and public operators does not meet modern traffic requirements. Certain analyses suggest that in this decade it will be necessary to replace around 70% of the locomotives due to their long-term viability and such a state of the rolling stock contributes to the rapid collapse of the infrastructure and unsatisfactory maintenance of the infrastructure has a negative impact on the state of the already quite old fleet. All of this results in a significant limitation of the speed of trains on most of our tracks, and we can especially say a pinch on countless curves. When a low level of security is added in rural areas, it is quite understandable that the number of passengers in rail transport is falling year after year. However, in addition to all objective problems and obstacles, I believe that our rail system still has sufficient potential for better inclusion in the public transport system especially towards our large cities. The overall motorization of Croatian society has led us now to the edge of endurance. The daily scenes of traffic jams on the access roads leading towards urban centres, increasing pollution and higher noise levels in cities and anxiety over the lack of parking places in the centres make public transport an increasingly attractive solution. In public urban and suburban transport, rail transport is insufficiently represented, one of the reasons for this fact can certainly be found in the worn-out railway rolling stock, but there are also other more complex reasons that may not be so easily seen at first sight. For example, there is no direct link between the rail system and other types of public urban transport in the form of integrated driving order or common train tickets. On certain lines there are parallel routes, and inter-model terminals that allow the transition from one type to another are extremely rare, although I must admit that in cooperation with the ministry that there have been some shifts and that it is still looking at that part and that we have cooperated in several pasts, we can say years where we are constantly trying to solve that part of the problem. But also with co-financing of student transportation means students, but pensioners also included local units, and often regional self-government. The users of public urban transport... the train can also operate more distances from other transport terminals, although perhaps the duration of the journey by train is significantly shorter than the time it is necessary to spend in order to overcome the same distance of some other means of public transport, which is what a colleague from Pakrac, but we from Daruvar know very well, although we are trying to survive our railway and to solve even better the problem of freight transport, not to say that on that track, and we are looking at Banova Jaruga-Pakrac-Daruvar-Virovitica, which has been restored with one extraordinaryly by means of large means for our area and there has been a more quality solution. However, there was one dead end or one narrow passage called Vijaduk Krndija, which has been here since 30.12.2020. in the operational programme of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and I hope that together we will find the possibility of Vijaduk Krndija being restored and that a large amount of freight traffic passing through our roads from the area, let's say this Vijaduk Krndija near the Municipality of Sirac so there is a quarry and a large amount of wood mass in our wider area, that we will make it a little easier on the roads, that we will thus reduce the load, cheape the transport of materials, but we will strewn and increase the safety of our citizens in particular because unfortunately there are also a number of traffic accidents with trucks carrying a large load. I therefore believe that we should set the finding of thoughtful physical and organisational integration of all forms of urban and suburban transport as one of the priorities in the fight against traffic congestion, poor air quality, noise, but also traffic accidents that almost 70% occur in cities. A particular emphasis in this whole should certainly be on the complementary role of rail transport, and we should rely on EU funds to a greater extent when financing these projects. It is also regrettable that it happens within HZ and things that we may not understand as lavices where some terminals are closing, some of the branches of certain HZ companies or their sister companies are being stopped by work, so here we can say that as far as HZ Car maintenance is concerned, that I have heard that radio Osijek is planning to close, which is the only radio that is the closest now and towards the Republic of Serbia and the Hungarian Republic. Not a lot of people work there, but they're very good at keeping cars and car systems coming in. If this is already a strategy or if it is concluded that it is more quality to move this radio to Slavonski Brod, if it is part of a solution, but then it should definitely find an adequate solution for people who work there, not only offer 400, 500 or 600 kuna per month to get to a new job that is 50 km away, so these people have to do 100 km per day, it is 22 working days, it is 2,200 km with 400 kuna, so you can't even cross that distance with HZ cards. I mean, you should definitely think of people, but to be a quality service. So I believe that HH has professions that can handle it, that there are people who can do their job quality, not only in the leading personnel, I'm sure there are them in the staff that are working on the railways from the maintenance of the railroad, from the maintenance of the wagons, trains, and all the rest of the conductors, train drivers and others. And just as for the end of one of the great potential HZs have, the former Balkan Express that was driving, we can tell along the entire route, but these today's railways, we find it easy to go towards the low-level tracks. Here we see last year we were hit by covid, the season stopped, but here we can say that a large part of the tourists to have a little bit of our diplomacy in the whole story, that Croatia proved to be a green country, a healthy country, and that with great effort and our ambassadors in the Czech Republic Ljiljana Pancir, Mr Dubravko Miholić, who is a representative of HTZ, but of course with the support and support of the ministries and people in the ministry who have solved all the legal and what was needed to solve, that the private operator RegioJet from the Czech Republic via Prague, Brna, Ljubljana brought a large part of the tourists, and thus we can say and improve the season of tourism, has extended and allowed the quality lives of people living from tourism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u33956	Thank you very much. And now we're going to individual debates. The first one will be spoken by a respected representative of Anka Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u33957	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President HS. Dear Secretary of State with his associates. So, it's about one amendment to the law that we've all been talking about on behalf of the club, and I'm guessing in an individual debate it doesn't cause any dilemma and it doesn't cause any questionnaires above the head, so we're harmonising an article. 61st, we're in line with the directive, but it's challenging when it comes to the railroad, a bunch of questionnaires above the head. The railway is a driver of development, it was a driver of development in the 19th century, it was also in the 20th century, and some countries recognized it as a driver in the 21st century. Those countries that first recognize it will really have the opportunity to be on a scale of 27 EU countries not all indicators at the end but to rise a little more. It can be a driver of development in a way that if you from Zagreb to Rijeka can come by train in one hour and we see no reason why you can't do it but the condition is a good infrastructure, then someone can really live in Rijeka, work in Zagreb or vice versa. And that's one potential we have. I always somehow try to tell stories, in 1896, it was, therefore, not confused, in 1896 in the city of Zagreb, the capitalist of the city of Zagreb was headed by the Building Office, which was then a little different called Mr. Milan Lenuci. It's what we call Lenuci's horseshoes, so it's a system of squares and parks that we have. And at the meeting of the City Headship, he rises up and says he will leave that session and resign because it was a heated debate, the main station in the city of Zagreb is in the city center, the railway divides the city into action and the main debate was whether we will raise the railway, it is about 3 km of rail on the pillars, so that this part of the city develops and joins or we will bring it down and have it underground. In 2021, nothing changed. So we didn't do anything different about it. What exactly am I trying to say? We have the stripes that the Hungarians did to us in principle, that is to say, they traveled the railroads the way they were most handsome. It was convenient for them that part of Slavonia to draw out a tree and it was convenient for the river because it was the port where they were trading and doing business. So we've got something and we're kind of taking it all the way we usually take it for granted. So the track is the potential of development, the potential is that nothing in this small country that has 4 million of us and which is relatively resourceful and spatial, all parts of this little country can be within our grasp and can be truly acceptable to us. So when we talk and talk often about sustainable development, so the railway line, the railway infrastructure is one of the elements of sustainable development. This means that if you live in Koprivnica or Križevci, there is no reason or you live in Zagreb, you go to work in Koprivnica and Križevci, only if you have a fast connection and if you are okay with it. Among other things, railways need to be seen in context, they can also serve a network that is part of a transport network within the city. Look at the city of Zagreb, I am, of course, talking about this example because I live here and I know the most about it and somehow I dare say that I know a lot about it. So, the city of Zagreb is from Sesveto, so when you go to Zapresic, there is no reason why the railway line should not be part of the public transport network, so those stories of the subway and others, so it can be part of that network. There's one more thing we've completely forgotten. So things change, things that were worth 100 years ago don't apply today. You've had an awful lot of industrial colossals in certain cities. So the industry went somewhere else, those parts were going to develop, those industrial colossals that were left abandoned, there growing grass or anything else, what do cities do? Among other things, they put the industrial colossiums into operation and there are those transports within the city. So, goods transports, equipment of certain malls and everything else. That's what other cities do. So I'd like to see in this country really finally what someone else is doing, you can never copy everything, but let's at least do something about it a little bit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u33958	Thank you. The next debate will be respected MPs Ivana Posavec Krivec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u33959	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate and associate. We have already, in fact, been through your presentations and through clubs, agreed that these are somehow cosmetic changes, that they are welcome and that I will repeat what I said and in the replica is extremely important to get as much of the EU funds out of our infrastructure, construction and capture this trend of development with the EU, so I think that in this segment, the development of HH is extremely important in this segment when we talk about passenger transport and goods transport. When we talk about passenger transport, then we'd actually have a few specific questions for you and we'd ask concrete answers, I've written representative questions, unfortunately I haven't received a single answer, and I hope that today's debate will also encourage some of the questions to be spoken or answered, because we ask them on behalf of our citizens who need them, I know that both colleagues and colleagues from other clubs and from my club. In fact, one of the questions that I'm interested in today is at what stage is the large HZ infrastructure project concerning the reconstruction and construction of the railway, so far a one-way track, from Long Sela to Novska, at which stage is it and what can we expect? In reply to the replica today, you told me that for about 10 years, there is a period in which we can expect these fast trains to be on Croatian tracks and we start driving. As a high school girl, I drove to Zagreb every day to school, which is 50 km from Zagreb, Novoselec, and it took me an hour to do so. Today, my son as a senior is driving an hour and 15 minutes, same track, on a new train. Unlike being able to stick to the timetable, they apologized to me because they were rare, and today, unfortunately, it cannot stick to that timetable and cannot arrive in time, but it has to look for alternative routes. This is just one example, we have very many examples. This is an example from the Zagreb County ring. And I'm saying this because you're familiar with this presentation that's a presentation from 2019 she's wearing the title Investment in the railroad, investing in the future. And there is also mentioned between a series of projects in this project Long Selo-Novinska, and this is then an article with the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure since 2014 in which 2014 means it is 7 years from today announced that it has been launched, so in Novska the project Long Selo-Novoska Phase 2 and 3, so phase 1 is over. In 2019, we are talking again about phase 1. Today you're telling me the new 10 years. I say this because in 2013 and 2014, as the leaders of local units of local self-government lying on that track, we changed the spatial planning documentation, today the colleagues in Ivanic City are changing it again. What's wrong? So it's been seven years, the EU's money is secured 85% of the funding for the project documentation of the rest of the Croatian budget, 7 years foreign, foreign projectors and we're back in phase 1. Does that mean the next 10 years? And now I tie it to the question that follows. The travel order HZ Travellers were already talking about that at the 12th month there was a change, a change in the timetable of course caused by Covid and so on and so on, 10% of the services and traffic lines that were abolished, so I am interested in considering the reduction and improvement so we will say Covid situation and the epidemiological situation in Croatia on 15 February, I wonder whether both HZ and passenger transport in this direction will be managed so that those train drivers return, these trains in this timetable where it was actually the most critical people if their train was lifted at 5 or 6 a.m. they did not arrive at work at the first shifts and there was a problem. Will we have understanding for these appeals, for petitions that have been written, for questions that went to you and given the improvement of the epidemiological situation, to return trains? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u33960	Thank you. The next debate will be a respected representative of Mira Bulja.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u33961	I hope to get answers from the Secretary of State to the replica, of course, and what I was saying on behalf of the club, and of course what I'm about to say. I'll repeat it once more to make sure it's heard well. So the Ministry and HZ for Christmas gift a few months ago after 1925 when the Split-Zagreb railway was connected for the first time except in the Homeland War and in war situations, they abolished the fast night train towards Split, meaning the character and Dalmatian railway, for the first time. Otherwise, since 2005 no June has been invested on the route from Zagreb to Split. The train is coming from Split to Zagreb 2 hours slower today compared to 2007. So from 2007 to today, two hours slower. And it's the best line for a tourist attraction, or like I said, making Western movies. Before you can come to the donkey or the cargo as we say, rather than with that train and somewhere else you can come to the marenda on the way. And that's embarrassing. In 2017, rail transport development strategy highlighted the importance of rail transport, but here I will show you here so whoever wants to be able from 2017, so there was a strategy until 2030. Split according to Dalmatia, Zagreb has nothing, zero, zero, empty paper. With certain trains that could be transported, the tilt trains that could have gone means driving this railroad very significant, so since 1925 they have transferred to Zagreb, i.e. for Osijek or Slavonia, I don't know exactly which line, so Split-Kaštela was carrying. New trains are being purchased, but none of them meet the conditions for driving this railroad. Why are you doing this to Dalmatia? Not a single project, here, and go through that railroad means two hours slower than 2005 and that's embarrassing. I said there used to be a pheromone, a sonic rra from Split to Sinj, which was slow but faster than it was now that in the '60s was abolished and which would be three times returned to the final. If this tourist attraction is Zagreb – Split, if we can make Western films on it because you can't see it anywhere else in the world now that fast trains go over 300 thousand, over this 300 km/h, we need from Split 8 hours in the best conditions, but often these trains break down or the infrastructure is wrong, so people are taking the bus, so it takes a long, long time. With a little marketing if it were private property, if it were yours, if it were the railways then they'd be dealing with it, dealing with it, and they wouldn't forget Dalmatia. Down is the heart of Croatia, the heart of Croatia. It is not just Zagreb and the surroundings of Croatia. You know how to do parades down there now, you know how to make a date from Vučevica, Sanader's myst to Kozjak's tunnel that doesn't have four lanes of road that you're going to pay 40 million kuna, in Vučevica di dog, di wolf mail carries, and there's no one to ring, now that you've moved out, you're doing the road to the tunnel of the nonexistent. You didn't do it for the Chetino region where 50,000 people, put it together on the highway or on the railroad, didn't do it, which is bigger than Međimurje County, you didn't invest in this railway that's significant for Lika, for Dalmatia, you didn't do it, you didn't do it, you didn't invest in this railway that's important to Lika, you didn't invest in Dalmatia, you didn't make your colleagues from HDZ, make sure it's true what I'm saying. Here's your fellow project, and please don't lie anymore and deceive most of the pre-election time. And what you missed in 2012 Rewrite EU Regulation... [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u33962	We have a replica of the esteemed representative of Grumoja, stay a colleague of Bull's here.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u33963	Thank you. Dear colleague Bulj, we saw Prime Minister Plenkovic in Vrgorec yesterday, sought by the local population of the Ravca-Drvenik tunnel, so I would ask you to look back at the fact that people are asking to build that tunnel, and that tunnel has already been opened several times, so our colleague Branko Bačić opened it, so he cut the tape, so it's not clear to me how people are looking to do something that's already been opened twice in the open ceremony?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u33964	Comrade Grmoy, we are now at the Law of the Railways.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u33965	Never mind.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u33966	It's all right. It's all right. It's all right.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u33967	Thank you very much. As far as the railways are concerned...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u33968	We can also talk about cheese if we have to. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u33969	Thank you very much. A colleague of Bacic opened the tunnel together with the prime minister, his great friend and ideological father Ivo Sanader, Bebić, and opened the tunnel Ravca-Drvenik, and I also gave the amendment here on several occasions every year to start construction, and I saw that he was with Mr. Pervan in the village of Kokorići Prime Minister and said he spoke to Minister Butkovic. So also for the Cetina region in 2016 they said they were going to make a merger of Kukuzovac-Kryzice, they didn't do it, and they didn't do it on the highway, you voted against, and now you're walking down. I once even laid the stone, the cornerstones that they should not be tortured, so I already set you up you can start working, and this relationship with Dalmatia is visible until 3 years ago. Before those local elections, the previous ones promised 2 billion kuna to the Split-Dalmatia County projects for infrastructure. Do you know how many colleagues of Thunderbolts, colleagues and colleagues have made? Zero, they didn't do anything, and they're making the same promises now.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u33970	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be respected representatives of Ljubica Maksimchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u33971	Thank you very much, Vice President HS, distinguished secretary of state with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Today, we have before us a proposal for a law adopted in order to further comply with the provisions of Directive 2012/34 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 November 2012 establishing a single European and rail space. We see that this is an infringement of 2016/2171 where the European Commission's assessment that Croatian legislation did not correctly transpose the provisions of Article. 46 Nos. 2, 5 and 6 of that Directive relating to the conformity procedure carried out by the Infrastructure Manager with applicants for railway undertakings in the event of a conflict of infrastructure capacity requirements. Amendment proposed. 61. The Law on Railways refers to the situation where several railway undertakings are asked by the infrastructure manager to assign the route or access to the railway infrastructure in order to be able to carry out their activity, whether the transport of passengers or cargo or if their requirements are in conflict. The relevant article shall provide for a procedure to be implemented by the Infrastructure Manager with railway undertakings in order to enable or ensure that their requirements are met to a reasonable extent. We see that this is very small or my colleagues have already said we can also call it a cosmetic change, but this is an opportunity for all of us to give our pain in the debates and I think that railways are very important every time we discuss railways here in this high house, of course, we all have a lot of constructive discussions. Somewhere less than 2 years old. We discussed here the harmonisation with the EU acquis, or we discussed the Law on Railways with its fourth railway package. We see that the main objective of the 4th railway package is to establish a single European railway space, simplify the European legislative framework, create a framework for the competitiveness of railways, and has just been identified by the European Commission as the backbone of public transport to the EU because of the fastest and safest transport of goods and services in order to address traffic congestion and congestion in large cities, and most of all because of the enormous costs caused by exhaust emissions or by a large number of sufferers in the EU, as well as the costs of their treatment. For this reason, the European Commission is making significant efforts, but also considerable resources, in the so-called ‘European Commission’. Green transport. We were here a few days ago discussing our National Development Strategy and in the development direction of green and digital transition, the strategic objective of 10, sustainable mobility, we see that by investing in the transport sector, a quality step towards developed EU countries, which is of course the goal of all of us sitting here today, modernising and building railways by promoting integrated urban transport and rail transport, reducing the quality of rail and road services, the quality of infrastructure to open up the national economic opportunities offered by modern rail transport and services. Investment priorities include building and modernising railways on the Mediterranean corridor and pan-European corridor 10, special attention will be paid to promoting integrated urban transport, which is certainly what we all dream of when we compare Croatia with other European countries. Urban and suburban rail transport, of course, should be given special attention to it, auditing the timetables that I can rightly say are obsolete and dysfunctional. Of course, this is about increasing the frequency of the lines, modernising the fleet of railway vehicles, modernising the railway infrastructure, but there are also great potentials for our ports, one word opportunity for recovery and progress of our economy, and I am sure that in this 10-year plan of the national development strategy we will certainly have a shift when it comes to our railways. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u33972	Thank you. We have multiple replicas, the first respected representative of Tomislav Okroš.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u33973	Your Honor, Vice President. Secretary of State with his associates. My fellow Members, in your debate, you have looked back at the national development of the strategy and sustainable mobility where the benefits for the Republic of Croatia are visible, and I particularly think about investing in the transport sector and how we will allow a quality step towards developed EU countries. I'm also interested, and I'm primarily thinking about rail infrastructure and what are the opportunities for the Republic of Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u33974	Dear representative Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u33975	Thank you very much. Yes, here I have looked back at the national development strategy in my debate, the green and digital transition, or the 10-sustainable mobility objective, and we see that investment in the transport sector will allow a quality step towards various EU countries. Of course, this is about modernising and building railways, promoting integrated urban transport of course and transport by rail, and there is certainly an opportunity for our economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u33976	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u33977	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues. This law only prescribes a regulation that should have been introduced in 2012, so this is the correction of the error that should have been introduced. And I'd just like to tell you, as far as you're concerned, it's in the strategy until 2030. the importance of rail transport and all other aspects. However, here I have your programme by 2030, Split-Zagreb has no project, and two hours slower. So now it's a slower train from Split to Zagreb than it was in 2007. And not only that, but in 2005 they didn't invest a single kuna, and not only that, but they sent Dalmatia and Lici a Christmas card this one, past where the only night train that had been driving since 1925 had been lifted. when Zagreb-Split is connected. And there's nothing in the strategy, zero, zero.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u33978	Dear representative Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u33979	Thank you very much. My dear colleague, I agree with you that HH is certainly in worse shape than those in EU countries, but we cannot see or expect them today as well benefite. And the national development strategy is planned for ten years, and I'm sure in some discussions, maybe not you and I here, but some other MPs when they discuss it, we'll see shifts concerning naturally rail and rail services.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u33980	The next replica of the esteemed representative, Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u33981	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear MPs. You were talking about how important it is for our legislation to be in line with that of the EU, and so this law is in line. However, it is important to mention certain elements besides the national development strategy that Europe, through its green plan, but also through the Sustainable and Smart Mobility Strategy, wants to achieve climate neutrality and that the railways play a special role. Do you consider that with investments scheduled until 2030. of 3.5 billion euros in modernising HZ can we contribute to achieving this climate neutrality goal? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u33982	Dear representative Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u33983	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, that is, as I said, the main objective of the 4th railway package is to create a single European market, but also to create a framework for the competitiveness of railways, but what is most important is of course this green package, or to reduce exhaust emissions here and the Republic of Croatia, and all of us, of course, need to make significant efforts. But here are the opportunities and the significant resources that the Republic of Croatia has available from European funds to take a step forward and make an improvement of course in air quality and cleanliness. And we know that the railroad is cleaner and much cheaper than road traffic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u33984	The Republic has a respected representative, Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u33985	Thank you very much. Dear MPs Maksimčuk, you come from Brod-Posavina County from Slavonski Brod and I believe you remember what the traffic on the railway was like at the time of the 10th Corridor now RH1, the train followed the train from Western Europe towards the Middle East and back and transported cargo and goods, and transit and suburban traffic was significant. I think he was the dominant road traffic back then. In the Homeland War, it is all to say that the traffic has disappeared and has not returned to the railway on that corridor because I believe because of the infrastructure and ours in the Republic of Macedonia, but also in Serbia and Macedonia. What are your thoughts, or what are the benefits of citizens of Brod-Posavina County, entrepreneurs from modernising railway infrastructure?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u33986	Dear representative Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u33987	Thank you very much. Dear fellow, that we are always the most important corridor in terms of passenger traffic, but also the freighter passes through the City of Slavonski Brod, aware of the fact that, until the 1990s, the traffic of goods and services, but of course the passengers on our railway station was enormously large or who knows how many times bigger than currently. But here's a chance to modernise the rails, increase the speed, raise the level of security, make better connections see the opportunity of our economies as well. We know that we are at an excellent geographical point in the town of Slavonski Brod, of course there are benefiti which, by investing in rail services, we can also have from our port Slavonski Brod from which we expect, of course, all of us residents of Slavonski Brod to feel naturally through transport and new employment as soon as possible. People in that town. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u33988	The next replica is the respected representative Simicevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u33989	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues, these are actually harmonising legal and linguistic terminology, but as I have already said this has taken place in the report on the state and work of HZ, so here is my question on this trail, given that we have now harmonised EU and our legislation, whether there is now a greater chance that Croatia will apply to the EU with its programmes and whether we Croatian railways will make competitors given the situation that is currently in HZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u33990	Dear representative Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u33991	So let's see that this is essentially a harmonisation, namely here it's a injury where Croatia is obliged to amend its Article 61. The Law on Railways, but of course this is an opportunity for HZ, here is an opportunity to reduce the gap between the quality of rail and road services in the resources available to us from European funds, of course we also need to improve our infrastructure of rail services, but certainly this is also what I repeat, the most important thing is to reduce exhaust emissions, which is of course very important and what has given the European community great pain.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u33992	The next is the replica of the respected representative Blažević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u33993	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, you have well recognised the railway as a driver of development in your presentation and today we talk a lot about it, all this is in line with the national development strategy and can only agree. You mentioned in one section and the timetables as dysfunctional, and we heard today that problems are outdated compositions, poor infrastructure. The local population as a problem actually points out unadjusted timetables. I wonder if you think that today's more functional or customised timetables would actually contribute to increasing rail passenger transport but today, therefore, not in any future when the railway roads are modernised.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u33994	Dear representative Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u33995	Yes, thank you very much, dear colleague, for saying that, I think they're definitely obsolete and dysfunctional schedules we have, that's what the previous speakers said in their debate, but for something like this we don't need any extra financial costs. All we need here is reasonable traffic planning, or alignment of the timetables with the needs of the inhabitants, or passengers, who are travelling on those shares. Here's basically only very little, here from HZ if they listen to this debate, so coordinate the timetables you'll definitely make a small shift in the rail services.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u33996	The next replica is the respected representative Posavec Krivec.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u33997	Thank you, dear Vice President. My colleague, with a lot of weight, we'll agree. One of these issues is that in Europe there is an increase of so-called. combined transport. It means that more means of transport are used to bring goods from position A into position B because it is more environmentally acceptable, less polluting the environment etc. And now that we are looking at this aspect, then Croatia has a very good traffic geographical position given these two significant corridors, corridor 10 and corridor 5C. Well, now that I'm interested in you coming from the 5th electoral unit, I'm interested in this river port that is next to Slavonski Brod's capacity, I'm also interested in the potential of Slavonia and these transits. Do you have any idea what is with our role terminal, is it in function, it is built, if it is not in function why it is not in function, wouldn't Croatia be much, much more competitive with it at this time?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u33998	Thank you. Dear representative Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u33999	Thank you very much. I believe that by activating the role of the terminal we would certainly get improvement in the quality of transport services, but also as you said that I come from Slavonski Brod or from the 5th electoral unit and the historically important corridor in terms of passenger traffic which is certainly not so now, but here I am sure that by investing the funds we have at our disposal, we will return at least to the same positions as we did in the '90s when it was certainly faster but, faster travel but we also had a larger flow of passengers and goods on the railways, which will result in much more in that ecological part because we are aware that Europe invests a lot of funds in so-called Europe. green transport and I think that and the Republic of Croatia should put this one in as soon as possible. the type of transport. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34000	The last replica of the esteemed representative of Bilek.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34001	Dear Vice President, I think you've said a lot of, a lot of good things in your presentation. The part that we definitely need to understand is that not all railways can be profitable, especially those railways in the rural area where co-financing should be for the transport of passengers and now the question is whether we can also get from European funds the possibility of co-financing tickets for, at least for those categories of students or pensioners, and also the problem you well mentioned is the problem of the timetable. Here I agree with my colleague Anamaria, who had just given you the same line where better quality means harmonising the timetable can definitely increase both the quantity and number of people who will drive with the railways. Here I know and I know from our city go, to a colleague of Anamaria a lot and students means a student in medical school, but also that part of the alignment towards a date with Ban's Jarug and the railroad further towards Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34002	Dear representative Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34003	Thank you very much. Well, here's an esteemed colleague I'll look back through your replica, but I'll look back at my county. Through almost the entire Brod-Posavina County, the existing railway track corridor of the Republic of Croatia1 and the Vc corridor, which, with minimal investment, could of course be used to organise a better transport of passengers, and of course, there is the transport of students. But here I am again going to return to the dysfunctional and out-of-date timetables that would certainly be if the people of the HH tried to revise them to contribute to improving the transport service as students, as workers and those people who still love and ride the railroad.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34004	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of the Sinisha Yankee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34005	Dear Vice President, State Secretary with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs. So here today is a lot to say on this subject, the very change of laws is technical in order to enable our railways to function better and solve current problems. As other colleagues and colleagues have looked back on the situation in the railways, so I will say a few words about it, and I will look back a little on some regional problems, especially the Northwest part of Croatia and the problem of normal rail transport. Today we are about 30 years from the draft and from the independence of the state and in these 30 years the Republic of Croatia invested mainly in road infrastructure. We can say that we are at a turning point where we ask the question in which direction we are going and here I am glad that we can finally say, there are more or less all agreed and we all know the problem of the railways that finally after 30 and more than 30 years goes into investment in rail transport infrastructure both freight and everything else. Here we could ask whether it is necessary or not, but we know, and also colleague Maksimchuk spoke about the EU Development Strategy which is just saying on this trail that road traffic needs to be reduced, and that we need to increase this exactly rail traffic or combined traffic, and there are no other alternatives. We are colleagues and colleagues at one beginning as we were 30 years ago at the beginning when we talked about the merger of Zagreb and Split and other Croatian cities with the centre, etc., so full support to the ministry. Now is the opportunity when European funds are offered to make use of it, and if it is not used today, we will simply be forced in ten years to abolish rail traffic and that traffic will no longer make sense. Modernisation is very important and here I hope that there is also thought about those routes that may not have been considered so far and that the Ministry and the Railways will put themselves even more into thinking and as we have heard from colleagues and these directions which may not be so profitable, but are very important for life and are very important for connecting with Zagreb other parts of the Republic of Croatia. I will give an interesting example which is completely different from our example in Croatia, let's say our neighbouring Italy where it is in '99. without knowing we came from Zagreb with a bus to Florence, here you know Florence famous city, one of the ten largest cities in Italy, over 300,000 inhabitants and we were looking for a bus route i.e. route bus i.e. At the bus station for Livorno. Levorno is a huge port, the terminals at that port are over 30 km long, there is nothing like that in Croatia at all, and who hasn't seen it hard can imagine it, but there is no bus traffic from Florence means one center of Italian culture to the Levorna port from which hundreds of ships sail daily, cargo traffic etc. It's something amazing, you don't have to go to the railroad. So there's only rail traffic between that passenger and that freighter with no bus traffic. Here, that's what we've heard here one combined approach, unfortunately we've been developing for 30 years, or fortunately we've developed what we could develop first, and now you see normally in a situation where we are, differently and difficult to be. And here's full support for the ministry to move on. But here I would apply in some way to think about the Zapresic-Zabok-Varaždin-Cakovec railway stations that are located on They're in pretty bad shape. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34006	Thank you, fellow Yankee. We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Pavic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34007	Your Honor. I'd like to ask you actually for one comment. Why? Because at the same time you're the leader of local self-government, you have a railroad there, and we know we have a problem right now, especially with the stripes leading towards the rural parts. And unfortunately, if we don't do something, we're gonna have to shut down those tracks and they won't drive anymore. As Head of Local Self-Government I think you can also influence your colleagues to, for example, transport students to primary and secondary schools from rural areas to centres, such as Varazdin, such as Novi Marof or let's say Ivanec to activate it in a way that instead of buses currently owned by private entrepreneurs, it is transferred to the railway. Is there any such activity, have you thought about it and are your colleagues working on it?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34008	Honorable representative of the Yankees.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34009	Thank you. Here, that's exactly what I wanted to end up with. The importance of these railways and the importance of the local railroad here is Novi Marof – Varazdin, including Ivanac and Ludbreg, etc., normally we from the local level subsidize, but it is difficult today when from 20 years ago we had a situation that 2/3 of the students, students who went from Novi Marof to Varazdin were traveling by train, so here we can say 95% of the journey by bus. The trends I was talking about have changed and today it is very difficult to change these trends, and this very modernization of the track may and may hope that it will and will change these trends that these railways will be profitable again and will be as useful as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34010	The next is a replica of the respected representative Simicevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34011	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. In your performance, you said that 30 years of investment in Croatian highways and we can be proud of having such good highways and that now is the time and that it is also investing in railways. So what do you think these changes and the additions of the law, the coordination will put the wind in the back, and will we really be able to reach the level of highways that we have opposite the railways that are not in that state in the next 30 years?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34012	Honorable representative of the Yankees.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34013	So the change is of a technical nature, certainly as the text itself says, contributes to improving the functioning within rail traffic and will certainly facilitate what is needed for those who master and who regulate that they can solve these problems more easily. Of course, in 30 years I believe, and here we hope that we will all experience this together that our railways will come to the level of today's highways, the state roads and the county and local roads and that here we are, as we use it, that we will take advantage of even more of the opportunities that the EU is giving us to invest both in these important directions and then in these local directions, because they are all ultimately important and contribute to the development and economy and tourism of the whole country.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34014	Honorable representative Petyr has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34015	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You also spoke about the inaccessibility of mobility for rural residents, and it is important to mention that railways could in any way be one of the good forms of traffic for these areas. The more we know that through the EUR 3.5 billion funds, the rails will be allocated to modernization, and on the other hand here these days news has come that from the Regional Development Fund, each Member State will need 5% of the resources right in the development of smart villages, so do you think that through the support of mobility and the concept of smart villages, we can help the inhabitants of rural areas to have equal standards and a better quality of life?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34016	Honorable representative of the Yankees.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34017	Of course it will, where the road connection is weaker, and the railway link exists, it will certainly contribute to better development and Croatian villages. There was once a tradition of traveling from rural areas to Zagreb and here I can confirm the story of my grandmother who traveled by train and sold in Zagreb agricultural products. This has been done by many, and here we hope that investment in railways will further strengthen agriculture as well. When we talk about investment in railways and agriculture, we are particularly attached to those large agricultural producers who use the Cargo transport and for which it is very important that the availability of the railway is easier. Not only use the railroads but also get [[Intruder: Thank you.]] The stripes on your... [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34018	We have a replica and a respected representative of Stromar, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34019	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You spoke of a fellow representative of the rentable, inconclusive railways, there is one railway and I am very interested in how many times you went to work in Zagreb, Novi Marof-Zabok-Zagreb, but it takes more than 2 hours. It used to be, those trains were full of students 30 years ago the trip took the fastest two hours and 15, 2.30, now it's the same, the same goes on. Let's hope Zapresic-Zabok will be finished soon, the road will be cut short, but I think we all need to force this railroad together and in the other part be from Zabok to Novi Marof and to Varazdin electrified, to arrange all bus stations and be much more profitable and, of course, attract as many passengers as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34020	Honorable representative of the Yankees.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34021	Here's a thank you, colleague Štromar, so here it is at the end of the debate I also mentioned the Zapresic-Chakovec railway. As you said yourself, it is partially renovated, electrified if I am not mistaken for Zapresic-Zabok, but for us from the Varazdin County and then for the rest of the part, it is very important for the Southeastern part of the Krapina-Zagorje County to continue modernization. As you said yourself once, the track and those wagons and those railway stations were full of both students and schoolboys and employees, unfortunately the speed of movement along that track remains the same, but with the investment in that railroad it can certainly change. And on that track is a date to Budapest so that it is also important as a tourist track and a link to Zagreb, but also other parts of Croatia. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34022	Thank you very much. The next debate will be a respected representative of Stromar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34023	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here's what we're talking about is one law, several no-technical and technical characteristics, but we're all talking about a real problem in HZ in rail mobility itself, and we all have the same wish, which is that as much traffic as possible in the future is across the railways, less cars, less planes, less trucks. Why? Because at least greenhouse gas emissions, if the cheapest transport is well organised, and if the fastest transport from point A to point B is even better organised. I agree that large projects, neglected HZ, have been neglected for years, and should be revitalised. For that, huge funds are provided, secured, but we also know that we have problems with performers, we get performers in the contests, they're slow, they don't work at the speed that's agreed on, we don't have adequate offers and then we're fighting over it, and we're neglecting those smaller railways that may be more relevant to some and much more important, they're now inert, but they could be much more profitable. Surely, if these lines were to be refurbished, i.e. If electricity was enabled, if electrified, in order to be cheaper, surely faster and faster, and still reduce harmfulness and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. It is positive that this is done precisely on the railway from Zabok to Zapresic in the intensive course, and I think we should go very quickly to other parts of the railway to Čakovec, specifically Varazdin-Cakovec, and then Varazdin-Novi Marof to Zabok and surely return to that time from 30th to 35th, as Parliament's representative Jenkač said when many and children and students and workers were using the railway right away, then the car took more than 2 hours to Zagreb, but by train 2.5 hours. Now that it takes us 45 minutes to safely reduce rail transport, increase speed, reduce deadlines and be more efficient and better. I speak the same thing about one railroad, which is Varazdin-Koprivnica, from Koprivnica to Zagreb super speed, but if this one were to be modernised, it would be more efficient for some citizens to work in Zagreb from Varazdin via Koprivnica. We must restore trust to the passengers in the railways. How do you do that? Modernization, speed, safety in the railways and better mobility in a way that we have more, in the timetable of more departures, that we have in critical terms not only every hour but half an hour, that we have later in the timetable departures and arrivals, especially departures from large cities later towards rural areas, and earlier in the morning to move from rural parts to large cities. I'm sure we'll all support this bill, and in front of you at the Ministry and HZ there's one big, big deal, I wish you a lot of success.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34024	Thank you. We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Bilek.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34025	Here's colleague Štromar, you said it nicely, really some stripes especially those in rural areas and for passenger traffic will hardly be profitable. However, if these railways, with not so much investment, can be returned to freight transport, it will be far more profitable, and this will benefit both environmental protection and everything else. Of course, some of them may be electrified, but let's say the example of this Virovitica-Banova Jaruga line, especially the part that I mentioned earlier in the exhibition, means in the Sirac municipality where we have the viaduct "Krndi" whose investment may be equal to some 10-tack-15-th place investment of reconstruction of a 100-mile-long road which hundreds of trucks are destroying because freight transport cannot go to that part where it is definitely necessary and slowly since that viaduct "Krndija" in the government's operational programme, I hope that it will be resolved in a short time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34026	Dear Representative Stromar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34027	Thank you very much. My colleague Bilek, here's an example in Slovenia, a completely inert railroad from Ormoz to Ljutomer, which I know about because there I live very close to there, until 10 years ago it was completely inert, and by investing right in electricity it became profitable for both the burden and the citizens, the faster trains are much faster and much more used.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34028	The Republic also has a respected representative, Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34029	An esteemed colleague, if we were to discuss what the subject of these amendments is, and the addition of this law would probably end in 15-20 minutes because it is only one change, practically one sentence, of an article that enables the transporter's Infrastructure to give the route according to the timetable to use our rail. But it is good that the debate lasts this long, and it is good that you too have highlighted the problems that are related to your thinking about the railway, because in this way it highlights all of us and the Croatian public the problem of HZ and what it is necessary to do in the coming years, both for the modernisation and final solution of the flatline issue, which is practically the only key for me to develop further rail infrastructure in that area, given the amount of burden of development of the Rijeka port and everything that will mean the accelerated development of the economy, not only that part, but also the wider part of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34030	Thank you. Dear Representative Stromar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34031	Thank you fellow MP, surely they haven't wasted too much time here today, representatives of the government and the ministry listening to those problems that we carry either experiencedly on our own or from the people we represent in this assembly. I'm sure they know all these problems. I'm sure they're working to solve these problems, but it's good to know that the public knows and that we know that the railways are extremely important to us and all of those non-creation in the last 30, and maybe even more years we need to make up for it now in a very short time to be efficient, faster and better.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34032	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Boris.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34033	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear State Secretarys with Associates, Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Railways are very short in two articles and I think that this one that should have been brought into line with the directive a little better than it was caused and okay a good debate today. I think the railways have always been a good debate in the assembly because we all notice what is wrong and of course we want to contribute this through the debate that the ministry hears what is wrong with our railways, although I would disagree with some discussions because they are negative and do absolutely nothing but try individuals especially from one club to refute every effort by any minister and government on something in this area of action. The law in one article made it clear that there is a need to be brought into line in view of the obvious misunderstandings that arise when a number of them are sought in a given space. on the railways their capacity and then we had some problems, but I think it's pretty clear it should be dealt with in about 10 days now, if not then going to the regulatory body of HACOM and probably then they solve it in the further process. Okay, I think the railroads really need to be talked about because we're a 30-year-old state that's really made a big move in infrastructure. We can speak from each corner, but in the '90s, we couldn't, after that in 2000, 2011, '12, it was a period of highway construction, construction of state ports in the sea, and after that, when we entered the EU, there was an open space for modernising airports, and we certainly settled the question of railways. How much does that cost? It's a large amount of highway itself over 1,000 kilometers, over 30 billion kunas of our assets, our loans, our loans. We have a lot more clarity here, and we are better able to use the European funds, and I think that's what this is all about. It is not easy to operate nearly 2600 km of railways, of which only 40% or 980 km of electricity is electricityed. However, I do not agree with these that nothing is done because we have shown this report for 2019 which we have unfortunately it is the last one will probably come quickly for 2020 which I am sure given the situation we have had to show perhaps worse results. In particular, in the case of railways, the Commission concluded that the Commission was not in a position to determine whether it was in a position to apply the conditions laid down in point (a) of the first subparagraph of Article 1(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1307/2013. We're through the railroads. We are transporting about 19.4 million passengers, road transport 47 million, sea transport 15 million and air transport 2.2 million passengers. We see that there are railways in second place, that road transport is i.e. The highways have pulled out a lot of let's say passengers in that direction and simply the railways can't as a single operator can compete as we wish. Now, what is done or not done in the last few years of this government. I have to say that some others have had a chance, unfortunately not, and then we can say that so far we have completed 3 shares of a total of 62 km long 125 million kuna, 125 million EUR, meaning somewhere almost a billion kuna stakes of I don't know the shares of the City, St. Ivan Žabno, Vinkovci, Factory, Housewives, Novska. Just so there's nothing left to do. Now in, we are talking about the work under way Zaprešić-Zabok 24 km, Long Selo-Križevci 38 km, Križevci-Koprivnica 42 km, Vinkovci-Vukovar 19 km plus works on two terminals at Rijeka port, so together with the port administration we have both Brajdica and Zagreb port. The total current construction of 123 km tracks the total value of almost EUR 690 million. With this part of Rijeka only this port part almost EUR 58 million. It's a respectable money that currently invests almost 5 billion kuna of projects. For those who say nothing is done because they're in Dalmatia, and they didn't contribute exactly to doing anything in that Dalmatia, but of course they're the loudest. We have 6 shares in the design, almost 439 km of rail which will be restored or built, and their value will surely exceed almost a billion Euros, which is certainly what we are aiming for. In the next 10 years, return the railroad to its significance and those who say nothing is done, speak falsely and lie. Mr. Bully is not telling the truth and it's just such a situation that right now he's just using himself European funds are set up by an investment cycle [[Thank you very much.]] in the railroad. [[Thank you, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34034	Thank you very much. My colleague Bulj has done some damage to the Rules of Procedure. What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34035	Thank you very much, Your Honor. An important colleague, Boric, injured Rule 238, where he mentioned me in a series of lies and deceptions that point to the Croatian public. The project by 2030 is for Dalmatia zero, here it is for the European project, zero Split-Zagreb, zero. And you've lifted our railroad, you've lifted our only link to the Split-Zagreb night line.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34036	Comrade Bulj, this is not a breach of the Rules of Procedure you get a warning. We're going to the replicas that there's plenty, the first respected representative of Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34037	Dear fellow Boric. As we have already expanded the subject from the amendments and the addition of this law to only one article on the railway story, it is good that you mentioned the vision and strategy taken by the Croatian Government at the moment finally, in spite of all previous attempts by various governments, but here is one important historical data, let's say 1868. In a year and a half of the chosen route, a projected route and construction site for the construction of the railway from Zagreb to Rijeka, where 23,000 people worked for just a few years, it was built. For what? for the reason that the railroad was in the area, and without it, the unimaginable development of the economy at the time. So, along the highways with everything that's being built at the moment, the Peljega Bridge, the tunnel through Učka, the planning of a flat-line line from Zagreb to Rijeka Sees Designed Strategy [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34038	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34039	Thank you very much. Comrade Klaric, we have been through quite a lot here in this House and such debates as have been held by fellow Bulj who has done nothing for Dalmatia except for himself as well as his colleague Grmoja and everyone else. Their contribution is measured at zero in anything. They had even twice the government so they didn't want to be in power, they said it's better to be in the shade, that it's better to be in the shade and criticized. They had a chance, they didn't even think of this resistor, so that's what it's all about. I have listed what is being done, over 5 billion kuna investment currently in 123 km of new or rebuilding existing railway routes, and what is being designed is still four times more and that is what is waiting for us in the next ten years and is waiting for us with the help of the funds we did not have from 2000 to 2011, or 2012, when we entered the EU at our disposal, that highways may be built that way. They don't understand it, and they think the most important story about the railroad is how fast we drive from which place to which place.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34040	The next replica of the respected representatives of Grba Bujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34041	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State. Borić, another important project to mention, during the term of office of this Government, is the project reconstruction of the existing and construction of the second track on the part of Hrvatski Leskovac-Karlovac, a 44km-long section and is on the important route of the Zagreb-Rijeka railway. This reconstruction and upgrade of the second track will advance the quality of travel both students and all employees and ultimately other types of traffic. Finally, it will contribute to the competitiveness of Luke Rijeka and improve its relationship with the Central Europe market. The project is worth nearly 3 billion kuna and 85% is financed by EU funds. This project is also the beginning of the construction of the Zagreb-Rijek railway, which is something that Karlovak County long ago wanted to happen, and you will certainly like it because the road to your Rab and Rab Island leads with the same railroad and we will advance everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34042	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34043	Thank you very much. We certainly won't have a railroad on Rab, but what's important is to say that currently several shares are being designed on that corridor, the Mediterranean Corridor, which is important for the burden most important for the burden, as well as the other one we have, which is the Alpe-West Balkans corridor, which is also important mainly for the burden. Of course, we must not forget this investment and the arrangement of 21 trains in passenger transport over a billion kuna is the intention of the railways in the coming period in the next ten years when conditions are met and this transport is brought back to life in a much better way than it is today, but it doesn't go I say overnight and it doesn't work because we think we're slow. The cargo showed the i.e. The new few years of experience that we got ten freight operators, a few years ago there was only one, means that space is liberalized and has an interest in transporting not only HZ Cargo but also many others who want to do so because they think it's worth it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34044	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative of Stromar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34045	... very well noted which all the shares are made and how much funding is provided. [[Specially enabled.]] But it's even more important what we're doing right now, and it's the preparation of documentation for the competitions that follow, the insurance of funds, but also the preparation of documentation for some future building permits for a year, two, three, and it's not easy to get to it and I think it's extremely important that we talk about it and we're optimistic and that we're certainly going to invest a lot and have better railroads.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34046	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34047	Thank you very much. So here's why I'm going to do it again, I didn't say it in my debate, but I'm going to say that right now we have six shares that are most important and as such are projected and there are tens of millions of euros involved. These are not cheap projects and this is not even the same level and highways, much more demanding in terms of design and implementation are therefore very important. So Hrvatska Leskovac-Karlovac 44 km, Karlovac-Ostarije 40 km, Ostarije-Škrljevo 114 km, Škrljevo-Rijeka-Jurdani 28 km plus the longest stock being designed are Okucani-Vinkovci 131 km and Long Selo-Novska 82 km, it is those almost 440 km of future routes that will be renovated or new and almost over a billion of these few that are estimated, and I believe that there will be 2 billion euros safe values when it comes to this being achieved and that this is ahead of us we can no longer run from it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34048	The next replica of the respected representative Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34049	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague, I'm glad you've decidently stated what's been realized so far so as not to place incorrect information to the public. Of course, all of us together may sometimes not be satisfied with the speed in which everything is realized, but we should also say that such things cannot be solved overnight. First of all, local and regional self-government units had to coordinate their spatial plans, and we know that in this low-level track track that it was also quite long-term. As far as the project itself is concerned, it should be noted that what is now being projected, co-financed from the Cohesion Fund with 85%, which is a very large process, so we need to know that projects must be prepared, that this takes time and hence public procurement and until realisation, really requires a lot of time.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34050	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34051	Thank you very much. My colleague Jelkovac, I come from the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County and the city of Rijeka is our most important freight port and it as such simply deserves the best railway track, we call it the lowland. There was a government that didn't do anything, they just renamed that railroad to a hill-mount or mountain-mounted or whatever it was they wanted and left it as they were. They didn't do anything in it. Another government came along, and some other ministers, I am finally happy to say that we are solving the issue of a station in the city of Rijeka that looked like the worst in the Republic of Croatia, and it will come to an end, so it will come to this 200km of projected railways that will find its funding in the fund and that is what we can take, 85% is good, if someone at 10 billion to 8.5, it should take and do it but not talk in a way "I'm driving slower than a few years ago, what you do there". It's clear why we're slow, but it's clear that we'll come in a time when we'll probably be much faster than we are now.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34052	The next replica is the esteemed MP Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34053	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow, here is today's constructive discussion of how much we are interested in improving services and quality in railways and how important our railways are to us. We know that our rail services are worse and are lagging behind those in the EU but we see that the EU is investing considerable resources and efforts in that green transport. Modernisation and construction are the long-term processes in which the Republic of Croatia has really started, but what we can do now and right now, but without major financial or almost no means is what my predecessors and yours have already said in the debates, which is reviewing the outdated timetables, adding new timetables in those prime terms that we have, of course, that such revised timetables would shorten waiting on bus stations, improve rail services and that is what we all want and this is a great opportunity for the Republic of Croatia to improve rail services. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34054	Dear Representative Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34055	Thank you very much, dear colleague. I agree that, if necessary, there are people who need to revise some timetables and do what is most important to the population used by passenger transport. But I wanted to stand here today against those who say there's nothing going on in that space because they took the thick shade here in the Parliament and they think it's necessary to offend anyone who comes here to the Parliament without any papers, arguments or facts. And that's why we said what's done, what's projected and what's been built over the past few years. It wasn't done long before, there was no money and it couldn't be done but now there are funds, we need to use them and to do it, it shows what's agreed, and that's over 5 billion projects, what's being projected, which is much bigger than these 5 billion, and certainly when these hundreds of kilometers of railways are built, there's going to be room for increasing and transporting passengers and speeds and everything else. Those who don't understand it today won't be ten years from now, believe me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34056	Thank you very much. The next debate will be a respected representative of Domagoj Price.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34057	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. Modernisation of the railways in Croatia, as we all know, is really necessary, we saw by the work of the Government of Ivica Racan, perhaps the most successful Croatian government in the last 30 years, when it modernised the Zagreb-Split highway, what a contribution it was to the development of the Croatian economy and modernization of Croatia in general. After that, unfortunately, there was no major modernisation of the railways in Croatia. There were investments, but no matter what, since these investments were not such a wide range, stagnation occurred at best. What we can read about the railways most often through the media, the inscriptions, that's where some railroad and it's also been a rail transport subject of ridicule over slowness, due to delays, unfortunately, that's what needs to be changed. The example is a good legendary Samoborček and the name we all know in Croatia, the train has not been driving for decades, the beginning was meant when it was put into office at the beginning of the 20th century, requested approval from Franjo Josip, but behold, it was a long time ago. So for decades he hasn't been driving, we know that name, unfortunately, today Samoborcek is the only bus carrier. What is absolutely necessary, therefore, is modernisation, of course, is the means needed, and let us hope that in the future as a state, we will turn to stronger investment and investment cycles to reverse the modernisation of railways. What is also important, it is important to have a rational and quality leadership so as to remove the policy in order to manage the railways themselves well so that rail traffic will improve the same way. What is important is competition, as soon as we have a competition where more participants compete, this also creates a better service for the passengers themselves. What I especially must stress is security at the crossings themselves. Unfortunately, every year in Croatia we have several deaths, we have dozens of people who have serious or minor injuries, so that's something else we really need to pay attention to, safety at the crossing, where cars cross, means train tracks. What we have to say is at the railway station, at the railway station that he's good for the environment. Therefore, rail transport uses 2.5 times less energy than road transport, which is good for environmental protection, something we certainly want as a country, but we must count on about half of the energy that Croatia uses, and when it comes to oil and more than half of the imports. So, as a country that imports energy, it's certainly good that we have for transporting that transport in this case a railway that consumes energy so 2.5 times less than road transport. What I must say for each economy is always important to have an engine of economic development. The engines of economic development have always been cities, i.e. to be more concrete metropolitan areas. So one city or maybe it can sometimes be two cities that are in the centre and around it smaller cities and municipalities within which are smaller places that are then the engine of economic development. But what is important in such a situation is that it is a good transport. So that people can get from point A to point B as soon as possible, so we need inter alia rail transport, and we especially need to point out that the speed of the railway is important, but apart from the speed of the railways, the availability of the railways is also important. In fact, the station has to be close enough for people to want to take that kind of transport. When I talked to people about this subject, they warned me, for example. that now during the crown in some places that means it reduced the number of timetables, which for the consequence again meant that people would be going into several timetables now the same number of people who used the railroad in a smaller number of timetables, which means that a larger number of people were printed in a smaller, smaller space, which is the same thing that certainly is not positive. Also crowded, crowds are another problem that the railroad can help solve. It is especially important for Croatia that we are focused on tourism for the most part or for the good part. Almost a fifth of our economy depends on him. We know we have a lot of traffic during the summer, so if we were to develop railroads, we'd have less traffic in the middle of summer and on the highways.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34058	Thank you very much, we have a series of replicas on your exposure again. He is the first respected representative of Pavic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34059	Dear Representative, here we have heard in your presentation and in several previous exhibitions, firstly we need to take care not to shut down shares that are currently active as much as possible and try to activate those that have been shut down or there is no traffic at all, or traffic has been reduced by a pardon. At the beginning of your presentation, you mentioned the modernisation of the railroad, the modernisation of something that would, which is related to the railroad. According to your understanding, according to your thinking, most importantly, what should first be modernised or perhaps what steps should be taken in this modernization?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34060	The Honorable Representative of the Tale.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34061	The most important thing to me is two things, which are equally important. One is the speed, and the other is the availability of railway stations. The first thing speed in Croatia more than half means rail traffic is such that the speed is below 80 km, so there must be a speed that people will be well involved in people going to work, but of course it's also about students and students or the transport of goods. So the speed must be as high as possible so that the rail traffic itself can be as tempting as possible and the better it could be to act for the benefit of society. And the other thing is, of course, availability in case the railway stations are away from where someone lives, of course, that someone won't want to, they won't want to use them. So speed and availability are two things that are very, very important and equally important to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34062	The next replica is the respected representative of Boris.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34063	Thank you very much. I wanted to commend Mr. Price and his finding that the best government in the history of the Republic of Croatia was then from 2000 to 2003 and that the government modernised the highway to Split if modernization leaves the construction site completely and leaves the government it's okay, I can accept it. Otherwise, it was some business for some other governments. So it opened in 2005, then in 2007 until Šedanovac, then in 2008 to Ravca, then in 2011 to Vrgorac, then in 2013 to Ploč. You probably did this one, too, and that's fine when you're saying it like that. But then the question arises why would the people change such a government and do so very convincingly. Almost as convincing as Bernardic given his result, several months ago. That if you remember it was like that. So your view of history doesn't match the truth I just wanted to fix. As far as the railroads are concerned, we're going into investment and you don't have to be against it because the railroads are meaning space for the next 10 years to get to the highway level we have today.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34064	The Honorable Representative of the Tale.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34065	You've said a lot of incorrect things, and I find it hard to catch what you've said. First of all, no one is against investment in the railways, but I just said that unfortunately it wasn't such a big investment, which is why one stagnation happened. As for losing the election or winning the election, see who won or lost the election, that Racan lost the election, Sanader got them, but what people think of Racan today, and what they think of Sanader and your HDZ. As for those who do well in their work, they can sometimes lose their election because they have found a country in a difficult situation. And as for the Zagreb-Split highway, that the government of Ivica Racan began, it was a great success of the government, of course it was a big deal so it was not completed within the deadline of the government, but it was certainly their great credit.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34066	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Stromar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34067	Thank you very much. Dear fellow MPs, you mentioned the security of the transition that certainly is one big problem today, there was a big problem with many dead and many injured at those crossings, but we also know that when the reconstruction of each railroad is taken care of. For these larger real, huge traffic routes is a denivellation solution, while these others have a security solution with traffic lights or some other signs. I am sure that both the Ministry and HH will surely take care of it because each life is very valuable.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34068	The Honorable Representative of the Tale.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34069	I think I agree with you completely, this good part and Croatian citizens know from their own lives as an example if crossing the railways we know how dangerous this can be, we know unfortunately that there are dozens and dozens of traffic accidents a year some with a fatal outcome, sometimes with a serious or easier injury so that, definitely, we need to take care of it and never, always have to invest in safety.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34070	The next replica will be a representative of the Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34071	Thank you very much. Here's a respected colleague you mentioned the safety of the railway crossings, you mentioned in part that there was an investment stagnation, so here I would remind you two weeks ago there was a contract signed that made 95 railway crossings to be resolved in the next year, so to increase their safety, reduce the number of accidents, the total value of that project is 209 million kuna. So here's just that the public knows and that we're talking about truth and truth for the purpose of getting the public to know and to be aware of the value of this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34072	The Honorable Representative of the Tale.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34073	I was just talking to a friend yesterday, let's just say that, so a friend of mine who told me the same thing in his place where the crossing for cars is, unfortunately, such a situation that the railroad is unfortunately slightly elevated and when someone wants to get through with the car it might be a problem in case it's a person who may be older or weaker driving, I mean literally can get stuck at the crossing. And of course, that kind of thing has to be solved and that's certainly not even a political issue, that's something we all certainly support.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34074	The next replica of the respected representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34075	Dear fellow, it is not only the safety of the railway crossings that we have discussed more today but, in the light of the accidents that have been happening, mainly with young people and the safety of the stations that serve as dumps of different wagons that are under tension, etc. What do you think should be done to prevent accidents that unfortunately ended with fatal outcomes, I mean when young people climb?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34076	The Honorable Representative of the Tale.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34077	Clearly, as far as these things are concerned, I would definitely listen to the profession, I think politics should be there to open up an opportunity for the profession to impose the profession and that the solution that the profession suggests that these solutions be implemented as quickly as possible. As far as my debate today is concerned, we've been discussing the widest spectrum of why the railway is important, why this traffic connection is important. According to me, metropolitan areas, and according to smaller cities and municipalities around them, this was one of the topics I touched, but specifically for this topic it is important that we listen to the profession and what the profession says and that these solutions are implemented.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34078	There is also a respected representative, Simunic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34079	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague. Why do you think reducing the timetables is bad for the railroad HH? I come from a city where a dozen lines have been cut off from this changed schedule in the carlovakia county of which even six in my city, which has been disabled by many people going to work, has been abolished so-called. The work train 4401 and 4408, and there is also one left in the morning when no one is driving. Do you think that before such decisions, we should have talked to local self-government units in order to avoid such situations, and what should be the criterion for some line to be abolished and the other one to remain? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34080	The Honorable Representative of the Tale.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34081	I think we should always talk about how to find the best solution. As for the reduction of the number of lines, they put citizens in trouble themselves. If a smaller number of lines, for example now that the crown was not only in railway transport, it could have been in another form of public transport if the number of lines were reduced, if the same number of people were going to a smaller number of lines then there was more traffic, we all know for the epidemiological reasons why it was a problem. So by reducing the number of lines during the crown, it's simply creating a bigger crowd and it's making it easier just to spread the corona of the virus. And as far as economic consequences are concerned, the economic consequences are such that simply those areas of settlements that are beyond the large environments of people are in a difficult position, if they do not have a train transport they have to use by car, costs are higher. This can eventually lead to further economic decline and eviction from these areas, among other consequences.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34082	The next debate will be Davor Naji's representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34083	I thank you, Vice President of the Parliament. Honored chairman, respected colleagues, respected representatives of the government. Here, given that these legal changes are quite clear, I would, like many before me, take advantage of this opportunity and spread the subject a little bit and I won't go too far in what are the reasons that our rail traffic is in such a bad state, of course it's a decade of non-investment in infrastructure above all. However, I would still be a little more constructive in this exhibition and, for starters, I would like to praise the efforts and changes that have taken place in this sector in recent years because I think that the increase in investment in the reconstruction of certain shares no matter where these renovations were to be commended, the use of eu funds should be commended. And in that spirit, given that we have a rather generous period of funding, i.e. potential funding from EU funds, I hope that in addition to the reconstruction of existing railways, construction will be found and taken into account and the construction of some new shares. Well, we had this example several times today mentioned Samoborcek which was a traditional train between Zagreb and through St. Sunday to Samobor, so here I appeal to the secretary of state once again for the construction of the railway. I know that's where things moved from the dead spot, and I'm sure there'll be hearings on the side of St. Sunday's, and hopefully, among other things. This train would certainly be economically profitable if it were built using EU funds, and I believe it is one of the few areas in our country where, in fact, both times of the day, so also in the morning when we go to work and from work we have a journey in both directions, so a lot of people from Zagreb are working in the Holy Week, but also in the opposite direction, so I am sure that the cost of this line of travel would be anything during the working week, but also on weekends because of tourism, we know that a lot of tourists from Zagreb are going to Samobor and Saint Sunday has been significantly up there for the last few years, there are many visits we know to the Roman, tourist tours, many citizens are going to private clinics in St. Sunday so that I believe that this railroad would make sense. But what would also be mentioned is a planned roadway for freight and rail traffic around the City of Zagreb, according to spatial plans. I think that's also one problem that needs to be addressed in the period ahead of us. When we look at a slightly wider development of generally passenger transport in Croatia, I think that railway transport should be seen as part of integrated transport where it is simply necessary to take into account that in one direction subsidise both rail and bus transport where this one line is driving next to the other may not always be the most rational. So perhaps there is still a need to look for these models through integrated transport so that the bus is connected to rail transport, which will certainly be much more interesting when raising the quality of rail infrastructure. Finally, I would mention that when we talk about the depopulation of certain parts of Croatia, better rail infrastructure can certainly contribute to reducing the depopulation. Here I would just perhaps refer to the example of Slatina, an example of the town of Slatina, which is one city that we can say traffic away from the rest of Croatia, which, on the road, which is very long, takes time to reach Zagreb, for example, and a fast railway link would certainly contribute to fewer people moving out of the area, but it would also be possible to list many other places for such an example. With the fact that when we talk about rail passenger transport, it is not only the speed of travel but also the price, so I would like to appeal in the future if there is an opportunity to abolish VAT on passenger transport because we are the only country in the EU that has such a high rate. Most EU countries actually free travel in the rail transport of VAT. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34084	We have a replica of the respected representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34085	Do you think that in a situation where Croatia is located where rail transport is almost completely devastated, the state should intervene in such a way as to co-finance the price of tickets at least for individual relationships in order to make rail transport more attractive and competitive or not to be confused in this way?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34086	Agent Nadja's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34087	So, in a minute to give an answer to this question is pretty hard. So subsidies should be avoided wherever possible. And I would actually stick to those practices whenever possible. However, we have a situation where some parts of Croatia are really cut off and where some people currently have no other way of traveling than the railways, and they are not very social that they can afford a personal car or anything like that. So maybe with some social criteria in some exceptional cases, I think it would be justified, but I'd rather go in this direction to eliminate VAT because what's the point of taking VAT from one side of the country, but on the other hand actually paying subsidies to HH, that doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34088	Dear Representative Klaric has a replica. Agent Nadja's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34090	Thanks for the question and for the comment, so I think I can often be critical but in some things maybe we should step away from the criticism because I think we've all agreed here on what the problems are and there's no need to waste more time on that and we need to turn to the future. You as Mayor of Bakar have a strong business zone there, you know how important it is to have a nearby railway. My experience from St. Sunday shows the same, and I think that one period ahead of us where very large EU funds are at our disposal should still be used well, and that all should work together on this, regardless of who will be in power in future governments, so these are one large investment cycles that lasts a longer period of time and investments that start in this mandate should continue and further strengthen if there are opportunities.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34091	Thank you. The next one will speak to the esteemed representative Marijana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34092	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, here's what I'm going to try to do in the debate of the future, but maybe not the future we've heard about here, I don't know about the speeds of trains in China, Switzerland in Europe, etc., but here's just to find out. So according to the 2019 European Commission survey, our railways have proved to be the most inefficient in the EU and the rail system that has been abandoned for decades is indeed the worst in the EU. Here we have heard today and the reform of the railway system, this year it is said to be the year of the railroad, and here I really welcome it and I believe that there is no one to greet it. There is talk about restructuring companies, whether they should be joined in holding or should remain formed in this way as they are today. We heard about how the train today from Split to Zagreb is slower 2 hours than in 2007, we also heard that the second city of size in Croatia was lifted so that the night train between Split and Zagreb was abolished, and that is one Christmas card from workers, students from Split, Drnišani, Kninjani, Gospićani and other towns were eating where the train should stand and pick up passengers. For now, they've only got one line left. So it's some condition in which our railroads are located today. We talked about modernization. When we talked about modernization, we mentioned speeds of 120, 160 km/h and so in the next 10 years we want to kind of restore the importance of the railway because there is no economy in one country without good rail traffic. Now, a little bit about the future that's all around us, with that emphasis on all around us, and I'm going to tell a little story like this. In 2017 we were at a wedding in Slavonski Brod there was such an international wedding and there was a gentleman sitting next to us from Poland, in the story of whether or not the man was working, he worked earlier as an engineer at the Cerno in Switzerland then founded the Startup 2016 which competed at the Elon Musk SpaceX Hyperloop floor competition, if you had ever heard here about Hyperloop, so he won one of the first 5 places and then in Poland founded the company whether Startup is the one that works on Hyperloop technology. So he's working with the Polish government to define the legal framework. It is one technology of the future, he says will come to Poland in 5-10 years then he spoke, but we need to prepare a very good legal framework with the Polish government before that so that such technology can be applied. So what is Hyperloop technology anyway? Therefore, it allows passengers of cargo to travel through some vacuum pipes at a speed of 700 miles or 1100, 1200 km/h, so a new form of land transport is currently being developed by a number of companies and therefore the difference between such transport and the traditional railway is whether the capsules carrying passengers through these pipes and tunnels in which the vacuum has been removed most of the air and can somehow use this magnetic levitation to reduce friction etc. So here are the companies in Poland at that time in 2017, along with large grants then, here are some €3-4 million from various European funds, state funds for research and development, but they were very pleased with the co-operation with the government, with all ministries, so on the preparation of the legislative framework. The first prototype was presented in autumn 2019, this year and the following are expecting tests, somewhere in 5 years they are already expecting the completion of the first pilot project. Here, it's some future that I think here, has anyone from the ministry heard about it at all, and if he knows anything about it, but here's the chance to find out a little bit, so see if there's one, today when we're talking about the future, we're catching 160, 120 miles per hour of railways talking about modernising rail transports, etc., and the future is actually this.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34093	Thank you very much. We have some replicas, the first respected representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34094	Personally, I am a big fan of railways at all levels of that practical, ecological and all progressive cities have long thrown bus stations out of their centers and left railways with beautiful interpolations, for example, in Keln where you maltenes enter that cathedral when you come to the centre of the city by train. But given this situation that you yourself cited in which Croatia was found, we have really left the railways so much that we are the worst in Europe. Do you think we can still fix our rail system so that it is functional and that we will really do it or we are talking a fairy tale here again, stating what we would like without any possibility to apply such a thing and in practice, given that so far we have put all the weight really on the roads and not on the railways?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34095	Dear representative Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34096	Well, I'd really like to believe that here's the part of the future that I told this famous Hyperloop that at least our children will once experience this in Croatia almost if we don't. And a lot of things, including the railroad, but also all the other projects here in this country depend a lot on power, depending on the desire of those in power. Here we have seen, and my colleague Bulj will surely ask me again about how the government refers to certain parts of the state, abolishs trains, how it refers to Dalmatia and not only on the road, I keep mentioning the fast road Trogir-Omis, there is also road traffic that has not yet been built, we have been waiting for it for 50 years, or the question is that these are priorities to some authority and as it relates to them, whether it is looking at the priorities of citizens or their personal priorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34097	The Republic has a respected representative, Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34098	Dear MPs, you mentioned the renegotiation of this line between Split and Zagreb, you would be asked for your opinion and for our sake here in the Assembly since we heard that some MPs say that, Mr... He wasn't telling the truth, if he were lying, he would beg you to tell us so that this line was really broken, you mentioned it, but what kind of reflections on the other lines on that same track, given that some of the users who used that line don't use any other lines anymore, and that then the repercusion on the rentability of the other lines and what happens with the use of these railways, on the one hand, on the other hand, this part that you mentioned about modernization. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We heard, Poland works on the legal framework, they had an idea, they had a start up that was in another country at the competition, they got that contest, they went into it, how far away are we from it?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34099	Thank you. Dear representative Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34100	Well, here I would really like to live in the country, so in the Republic of Croatia, which will also work on a legislative framework on this kind of technology of the future, right? In which we will talk about the levitation of magnetic, hyperloop, etc., not repairing and not removing night trains, which I don't know why it's characterized as a lie, there's no, here if someone wants to buy a ticket for that night train, it won't work, so many workers, students who did, the way of communication between Zagreb and Split, now don't have a chance to use that line and I say, I would really like to live in a country where we're not going to talk about the railroad this way, we're going to talk about projects that will enable the development of the economy and step forward, so get off the scale of all the development scales in Europe.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34101	The Republic also has a representative, Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34102	Thank you very much. My colleagues, we come from our Dalmatia, not only has the Zagreb-Split night train been lifted, but we have not invested since 2005 and two hours slower than since 2007, two hours slower we arrive, we will be faster with the bike. And not only was it our Christmas card of termination, but Croatian passenger transport introduced a new line of trains Zagreb-Osjek-Zagreb in October 2020. In order to supplement, the train pulls back, the tilted train that was driving on the Split-Kaštel Stari-Split route. So down the porch, we're all beat, that's their goal. And they can't do that down to living people, Croatian citizens, people.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34103	Dear representative Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34104	Here, I have nothing to say but agree with my colleague Bull because here I testify that the truth is everything he said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34105	Thank you. Now, finally, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS and Independent Representatives, the Honorable Representative of Predrag Štromar will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34106	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. It is time to invest in the development of rail infrastructure, improve access to trains and connections within the national and European rail networks to become our country's key priority. I therefore expect this government, but also the future governments, given that this is not a 4-year project, to focus in this direction and to make the railway a strategic commitment to development of the Republic of Croatia. Just as we invested primarily in road and highway construction a few years ago, and today we can rightly say that Croatia is well networked with quality road infrastructure, which is compared with some other countries, at an enviable level, now is the time to set the railway as a priority of traffic development and to consider investment cycles in the context of rail infrastructure. It is now the railway that will cover the future economic and demographic development of Croatia and, in line with the European Green Plan, should follow the trends of the green economy and sustainable development. We are a tourist country, we are geostrategicly positioned by joining the East and the West and the North and South of the European continent, so the primary task of developing railway infrastructure is to impose itself and thus justification in its investment. The railway must become the first choice for cheaper, safer, more comfortable and more accessible public transport in the next 10 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34107	Thank you. The next on behalf of the Centre and GLAS club will speak to the respected representative Dalia Oreskovic, who is missing. Ah, there she is, I see, I see. Since you weren't in your place, I didn't see you there behind everyone. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34108	Thank you, Chairman, fellow MPs and MPs. I will repeat what I very often say about this speaker, which is that the EU cannot be our solution as long as in the way we manage our public resources, we represent ourselves as a problem. In that sense, and these 2.3 provisions, which we are now changing, represent only surface scratching, and we are dealing with only the force of opportunity because, behold, the competent authorities at EU level have noticed that we were unable to translate something into our legislation as well. But the real problem we are as a state of failure is that we are not dealing with those key problems in our railways, and that will be so as long as the state is governed by this and this government and its parliamentary majority. And what are the key issues and key questions that should be answered and offered a solution. This is primarily abandoned infrastructure, train slowness, lack of adequate network and lines, i.e. poor transport connection. And fourth, and I'm going to say something more about the bad running of the companies themselves that are doing business in this activity. It's HH infrastructure, HH cargo and HH passenger transport. When we enter these concepts into the Internet search engine, we will come to one conclusion, which is that very little information can be found on how these societies are managed, how they are managed and what these companies should serve. More information on some old corruption affairs, such as the 2012 Kobac case, cannot be found whether the 30 million kunas that were estranged from the public budgets were ever returned. Eventually, we will find some information on the plan to withdraw funds from the EU funds for crossing the railways and for rebuilding that infrastructure. However, not a word about the management plans. I advocate that a clear, revised and detailed management plan is introduced into the Corruption Prevention Strategy. Because there is no democracy, let alone functional democracy, without citizens being able to find a very easy and accessible way to easily search for information about what a particular commercial society is doing, what it will do, how it will manage what key people in that commercial society trust in the name of all of us. So, state-owned companies we know are all very often losers with a large number of employees. The key people in the administration and the supervisory boards, and very often at all other levels, chooses politics, i.e. the ruling majority. Very rarely in this regard, the criterion of the ability of the vision of development has any, let alone a key and decisive role. And that is why our railways are not the key and are not the driver of economic development, nor better environmental protection, nor are they serving to create any additional value in the area of tourism. So, the EU will not change the basic settings under which our rail system works, nor will it ever come closer to the standard from more advanced countries until we ourselves decide that something in the way that this entire system works should radically change. What we're going to do with our railroads should have been more concretely included in the National Development Strategy that we discussed here a few days ago. Here we should indicate what will be required of those who will possess key management functions in these three listed companies so that not only we from the world of politics, but all of our citizens can exercise control over whether it really is the government, so not only the political authority, but also that authority that manages the companies themselves has carried out what they have committed and promised. So this is the first step, the first wheel, the first hook that must be heard if Croatia wants to go through change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34109	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives will eventually be the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Zeljko Pavić will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34110	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, secretaries with associates. I do not think that the amendments and additions proposed in this law are controversial, because they are unfortunately related to nomotechnics, which, unfortunately, the European Commission had to warn us about. And I think it'll be accepted by all the clubs. What is contentious today we have heard a lot of debates that have been related to the abolition of existing lines, to the poor maintenance of infrastructure. And when we get back to the past, we who traveled to that railroad know what it looked like. Today we have a chance to see it on our islands if you had a chance to come to one of the islands outside the season, then you know what it looks like when the ferry comes. I'm sure it's a holiday. So it used to be in our small places in rural areas when the train came, next to the train station was usually a small inn. Along with that village shop, people immediately did everything they needed to do along the way. There they were a little bit divided and then each one on their own side. It's gone today. Those who lived in these environments, unfortunately, have moved in a large number and I believe that this will be a problem for us to restore, but we must appeal to the ministry and to the representatives of the ministry that the lines are not abolished, that the railways or railways that are made not to be destroyed but to try to restore it and try as many passengers as possible to target rail traffic as possible and as much goods traffic as possible. After all, it is also in line with the European Green Plan because the European Green Plan certainly does not involve road transport since we were long ago when we were in primary school heard that it was actually the most environmentally acceptable and economically profitable actually shipping, and then immediately the railway. Right? And I think that given the reactions that we have had from Mr. Secretary and Associates, I believe that these replicas of ours have been heard, or our stories that we have tried to tell from each one of our views, and I believe that at least one part of it will be listened to, listened to and tried to do as much as possible. What bothers me a little bit as a man who's been dealing with IT forever and is actually trying to track the technique and technology that goes in one.../incomprehensible/... direction, it bothers me that we haven't actually heard anything, and maybe we haven't even had a chance to hear from the ministry whether to try to introduce new techniques, new technology in rail transport, because if we try to restore the railways back to the one at which they've been, if we're going to have trains that are going to be slightly faster, and the infrastructure won't support it, we're not going to achieve anything. So the goal would be what our colleague had in our debate, let's see what we can do with new technologies, with a new approach, with a new attitude towards the railway, to speed it up, to try to restore it in one way that will allow our future generations to survive in rural areas on the one hand and on the other hand, to repopulate those cities and villages that are unfortunately abandoned primarily because there are no good traffic connections to large cities on the one hand, and on the other hand there are no jobs. When we shut down the railroad, when we shut down the train station, we also shut down a few jobs. So here's my appeal to both the Ministry and the Ministry's representatives to try to do something about it. On the other hand, I have never heard of any information about how many passengers are operating in Croatia. So my question is, are there any carriers that are foreign, meaning foreign carriers, that work only in Croatia, and that does not just cross the border means that they do not go from Hungary to Zagreb? Do they have such carriers in Croatia at all that someone asked for a transport concession if you can answer that. And secondly, what would you like to try to answer if you have the final word, are some plans in part of this promotion and use of new technologies in the near future and in Croatia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34111	Thank you. And now it's over. on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most speak to the Honorable Representative of the Bulj. [[I'm just saying our club will vote for this law.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34112	I was expecting but here is the time that the Ministry's representative will come out and give his answers, but obviously, when the minister hasn't come, neither the Secretary of State nor the HZ representative wants to talk about this, and of course they don't care. Their interest is to listen and to say, in fact, we have heard, we have gone essentially to this law to rewrite these 700 laws each year in each term 700 alignment with European directives and regulations will not have any meaning. I would like the secretary of state if you can answer these questions that I asked because the fact is that the railway in the future in the plan by 2030 as you called that strategy to Dalmatia from Split to Zagreb was abolished by a night train. Since 1925, when it started, when it started here only in war conditions when it was not possible, but here it is today this government has meant to abolish the train with the fact that I have to mention that the trains that drove from Split, Kaštel Stari-Split, have been directed towards Osijek-Zagreb, means the Zagreb-Osjek line so that you have weakened the possibility of the local population using the railroad. And we know that the railway is not only a profit, the railway is also the second segment that the EU and the global policy of Europe means that is and that is what this government is calling for, but that part is not made of it either. And I don't think since 2005, even the kuna hasn't been invested in a figure and Dalmatian railroad, or lip, with it being two hours slower. If you'd just put it on, I'd have asked you a few questions, actually. Instead of the basic train, why not drive a train with a tilting technique and thus reduce the losses, and most importantly the time from Split to Zagreb would be reduced from 8 hours to 6 hours. Well, here's the deal. At least they'd be back in position from 2007. But you don't even want to answer any of these questions because you're aware and the fact is that from the European projects, the face of the railroad means everything that's more south than sad, as if you gave up that part, who doesn't have that part. I will point out here that 3 years ago the government, so 4 years ago in pre-election time for local elections, held a session in Split where it promised 2 billion kuna investments only in the Split-Dalmatia County in transport infrastructure. So far she's invested zero kunas. Even counterpart Bacic opened the Ravce Drvenik tunnel in 2005 with his Prime Minister Ivo Sanader and I don't know all who was for traffic then, the president of the assembly. But it's important instead of investing in the right infrastructure the one that's going to relive those areas like this railroad, you've instead brought that railroad that's slower than the blue river that was shut down in 1962. What are you doing this for? What's your interest? Joined the EU, we come from Split to Zagreb 2 hours slower. And not only that, but you just got caught up in the roads that are very important. It's just that you're building roads as a priority. So don't work now from Vučevica to the non-existent tunnel exit in Vukevica from the highway to the non-existent tunnel, 40 million kuna you will pay this building road 4-way to the non-existent tunnel, to the garden... from Sanader... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What does that lead to? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There's no tunnel, and you're working the road with four lanes. To the garden so I can model the garden. So is it a disgrace to Dalmatia and you still come down... The tunnel that has been opened five times, Ravca-Drvenik, which is important for Hvar, is also important for the vrgorje and the property part, and of course it is important for Hercegovina. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, answer these questions, it would be fair to the MPs, not to watch the clock all the time, the key to the phone, answer, hold to the dignity of this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34113	Thank you very much. I'm concluding a debate on this point, and we'll vote on it when the conditions are met. Now, before the next point, we're gonna take a break to clear the assembly room, so I'll see you 10 to 3. It's a 14,40 o'clock meeting.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34115	[[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 14.51 HOURS]] The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172, 204 and 206. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In accordance with Article 206. The rules of procedure of the establishment of the agenda adopted the proposal from the applicant to discuss this legislative proposal by an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 204. Rules of Procedure, the emergency procedure shall unite the first and second readings and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Dear Secretary of State Zarko Katic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34116	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. and gentlemen of MPs and MPs. Let me give you the brief intensity of the amendments and the addition of the Civil Protection System Act, which the Proposer, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes to be adopted by an urgent procedure, so in a single reading. The Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Civil Protection System in the legal order of the Republic of Croatia transposes Directive 2012/18 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 4 July 2012 on the control and threat of major accidents involving dangerous substances and amending and subsequently repealing Council Directive 96/82 of '96. A year. I will only briefly remind myself that these amendments, which are in line with a directive known as the Seveso III Directive, were preceded by the Seveso I and Seveso II Directives, and the reason for the adoption of such Directives and implementation into the European acquis is an accident that occurred in a plant that produced pesticides and herbicides in Seveso, 20 km from Milan and which took place 10. Seven. In 1976, where about 2,000 people felt the consequences and were treated and about 80,000 domestic animals were killed because they were a danger to subsequent consumption. Following this, Seveso, today called Seveso I Directive 1982, was the goal of increasing security in industrial plants that use a large amount of dangerous substances. After about a decade and a half of application, it was observed not to satisfy it, was brought in 1996, so-called Seveso II Directive, which was supplemented in 2003 and finally as I said, came into force in 2012 so-called Seveso III Directive has been adopted and entered into force in 2015. Its aim is therefore to control the dangers of major accidents, including dangerous substances, but with an emphasis on quality information to the public and better access to public information in order to avoid human, animal and property casualties. Therefore, the reason for the adoption of these amendments and the addition of the laws is that the European Commission has initiated a infringement of the right due to incorrect transposition into the national legal system of certain articles of the Directive, the competences conferred on this segment of civil protection, or the MUP, are contained in the Article. 12 and 14. They were also regulated by the Regulation on holders, content and procedures of drawing up civil protection planning documents and how to inform the public in the process of their adoption. Therefore, this regulation, which is bound by the transitional provisions by the Minister of the Interior for its adoption, should therefore be adopted within 30 days of the entry into force of this law and be transposed into it. 15. It's a directive. Therefore, in total these proposed amendments and amendments to the law, the Directive of 4 will be correctly implemented. Seven. In 2012 the Croatian legislation, and particularly although this was not explicitly requested in the letter of the European Commission, will further include certain definitions in this law and these are definitions of domino-effect, dangerous substance, operator, plant area and external plan. The obligation to make a decision on the preparation of an external plan without delay will be prescribed, when I am talking about an external plan, for the general public and for those who may have studied more closely, the legal person who uses things is obliged to take into account his plan for the incident of accidents, the major accident and he refers, he is co-loquially referred to the internal plan and he refers to the area within the plant but for the area, since such substances are very often not familiar with the air, water or other way, or if the explosion occurs, they may contaminated the rope or the wider area, so it is necessary to adopt an external plan which, in accordance with our legislation, are then adopted by the counties and, therefore, these amendments are prescribed to adopt such a plan, an external plan without delay. It is then necessary to establish supervision of the timely adoption of an external plan. The obligation to provide harmonised information is further discussed to all persons who could be affected by such a major accident. A competent authority for providing such information will also be designated and the obligation to notify the other State of the reasoned decision that there is no cross-border impact or danger of a major accident if the facility is located in the border area. Finally, these amendments set out a link to other regulations that regulate certain issues of reaction to the threat of major accidents involving dangerous substances, and more clearly distinguishes the jurisdiction of individual ministries, in particular the Ministry of the Interior, from other government bodies involved. As I said, the Minister of the Interior will comply with the Regulation on the holders, content and procedures of drawing up a plan for civil protection documentation, as well as the way to inform the public in the process of their adoption. This Regulation was published in 2017, so now that the law has been passed, that is, within 30 days of the entry into force of this Act, that Regulation should comply with these amendments and amendments. The application of this law alone will not lead to additional costs per state budget, and as I said, as soon as these provisions are implemented and further proceedings can be prevented by the European Commission due to infringement of the law, it is proposed to adopt it in an emergency procedure. I can only say that the Legislative Committee has made certain amendments that are mostly nomotechnical in nature, so on Article 2 and Article 12, and the Proposer accepts them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34117	Thank you. We have one request for a break. Representative Dalia Oreshkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34118	I'm looking for a break from the Honorable Chairman on behalf of the Club of the Centre and the Voice for 10 minutes for additional consultations. We would like to point out that it is absurd to discuss the alignment of terminology with the European Union, not to discuss the same circumstance that we currently have in force the dictatorship of an unconstitutional body operating in an unconstitutional way and in an unconstitutional way manages the state. Therefore, first of all, it should be pointed out that the Civil Protection Staff has taken over the role of the reserve government because it makes decisions according to a political criteria rather than a professional one. That the lack of expertise is confirmed by the fact that the profession can always determine the duration of individual measures, the criteria for their introduction. When speaking the word profession then there is logic and certainty in the duration of individual measures. It's not here. It is also an unconstitutional body that shows the situation that occurred in Banja. There we saw that civil protection could not take over the role of coordination that the law should do, for for a long time the Civil Protection Staff has been dealing with those issues that civil protection should not be dealt with in any way. Therefore, everything that we will discuss in the context of the very text of amendments and addition of this law is actually a harsh insult not only to the constitutionality and legality and rule of law in the Republic of Croatia but also to the common sense of our citizens and voters.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34119	That wasn't even the subject you were talking about as far as this law applies. But, well, you're entitled to a break. But we had a break five minutes ago, so we'll keep working. Injury of the Rules of Procedure Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34120	Thank you very much, Vice President. Article 238 of my colleague Oreskovic came out of the question which is the topic of the debate, which is the Law on Civil Protection, Amendments and Supplements, because she would like to discuss what is her topic and that is certainly not the topic to be discussed today. We're talking about dangerous substances. And you're obviously one of those things that's just trying to convince us every day that we're always guilty of something, that we're nothing, especially Civil Protection Headquarters. And she just missed the whole theme, and that's why she should have been warned.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34121	In the first part, you were right, I warned the MP. And in the second part, I warn you, for you have spoken of the tail and the insult. We've got a few injuries now. First is Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34122	Thank you very much, Your Honor. A colleague apparently injured Article 238 where he insults MPs in this case by saying that he is a dangerous substance. Compare with pesticides fellow MP to the sea only Plenković's snowflake Boric who usually serves minimally here...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34123	Now you've continued to insult me. Please stop. I give you a warning, and to you. I warned the counsel. A reminder to you, too. The next violation of the Rules of Procedure is the distinguished representative Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34124	Thank you, Chairman. Indeed, Article 238 has been injured. By comparing me to a dangerous substance. I cannot in any way be a dangerous substance when I point to the fact, and that fact is very dangerous that we currently have two Civil Protection Staffs in Croatia, although there is absolutely no foothold, no basis in the law itself. And that's the subject of the law that's being discussed today.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34125	And you knowingly violated the Rules of Procedure. That's why you've been warned. Next infraction of the Rules of Procedure, distinguished representative Marijan Pavliček.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34126	Respected infringement of Rules of Procedure Article 238. It is inconceivable that fellow Boric can tell a parliamentary representative, even more so as to say that he is a dangerous substance. It's below every level of communication, and I think it's more about you and your statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34127	And to you, you are knowingly in violation of the business and to you a reminder. We have one request for a break, honourable representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34128	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, I ask for a break so that we can once again invite the MPs to pass this law. On the other hand, I am asking for a break so that we can make it clear to the Croatian public that it is unacceptable for Croatian MPs in the Croatian Parliament not to respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, and they made an oath to do so. So I will stress that the civil protection headquarters is no para-state body, non-constitutional body, but the basis of the law and the constitution of an authorised body of the Republic of Croatia that implements measures to protect Croatian citizens, the population from infectious disease or the pandemic of the coronaryvirus. The fact that Mrs. Oreshkovic is trying to declare the body para-state and unconstitutional and, contrary to the Constitutional Court's decision, speaks of her and her legal knowledge. Therefore, I am not surprised that these days the courts in Croatia, the Administrative Court and the High Administrative Court have annulled the solutions made by the Commission to decide on the conflict of interest, which the practice of this commission has just established and did not have the Administrative Court or the High Administrative Court reduced or omitted the powers of the Commission to decide on the conflict of interest as it says, has already established that they have been working outside the law for years, that they have taken over the powers that the law has not given them and then the Administrative Court has acted in such a way. So here we are, Mr. Vice President, looking for a break to bring it all together again.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34129	Well, I accept your request we've heard your argument, we've had a break, so we'll move on with the work. We now have replicas to expose the Secretary of State. The first is the distinguished representative Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34130	We're on the verge of a potential new huge affair that I first mention in public procurement that I'm going to refer to as the Gaudu kate, according to the first clue. It will be very easy for citizens to understand what it is to go from just one small item they know well. Kilogram KPlus Gaude costs 45 kuna, kg Bayreuth Gaude 55 kuna, kilogram Dukat Gaude 55 kuna, and the kilograms that you obtain as part of the supply of civil protection costs as much as 80 kuna, so 50% more expensive than most listed cheeses, and should have cost significantly less since you bought as much as 7.5 thousand kilos of cheese for which you gave 600,000 kuna. It may now be clear why the Law on Public Procurement is being avoided to this day. The gauda kata begins with a seemingly tiny example of this cheese, but at least 200,000 kunas are spent more than necessary. Where's the difference? And we can only imagine what it's like with larger items that are far from the eyes and knowledge of the general public. Gauda's underpants. I'm asking you to keep your eyes open.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34131	This, this at all, this has not been discussed at all, I don't know what you're replicating, this wasn't a replica. The next replica is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj. Here you go, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34132	Article 238, so I don't know you're demeaning my work as parliamentary representatives, I don't know why you didn't allow such an important issue regarding the supply of civil protection systems, and right now we're talking about the Civil Protection Act, so that we know how it can work we need to know how protection works on the ground is of paramount importance for the Croatian public to know something about the Gauda Gata affair and the price at which you get cheeses and petting the eyes of the Croatian public.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34133	You consciously manipulate this debate because you are not talking at all about the subject that is subject to this law today, and that is why you are being warned. Next replica representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34134	Thank you very much. Here's after what my colleague Maria Selak Rasdic said about the cheese that's more expensive in getting 50% instead of 40 kuna Gaud, you're getting it for 80 for civil protection, with the first one, this Gauda affair is a good question, now imagine what's wrong with the other. What you say, Secretary of State, is what my colleague Maria Selak Rasdic said is a kilo of cheese 40 kuna of Gaud, and she gets civil protection twice as much as 80 kuna. What's your comment on that? Guys, don't be nervous. We don't have stock reserves, getting Gaudu cheese is 40 kilos, getting 80 kuna and Boric laughing. Boric laughs, the cereal is funny, on a kilo of cheese 40 kuna more expensive, hey 50% and it's an affair over the affairs of the Gauds affair.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34135	Your time is up, you've replicated your colleague, not the secretary of state, because he didn't talk about it at all. The next replica is the esteemed representative Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34136	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Secretary of State, in these amendments and additions, we have a definition of concepts, so I'm talking about the definition of the ministry's competence for certain items, the tasks of the representative bodies of the local self-government units, and I'm interested specifically in whether before a few months ago in the headquarters of civil protection units of local self-government the decision of Minister Bozinovic was made that they were obliged to participate in the work of these departments of infectologists and epidemiologists. In some units of local self-government they did it, and in some, they didn't, I know specific things. This is about inspections, so here's the answer to that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34137	I'll talk to you later? I can't answer you this came a memo I didn't have to admit best heard, but certainly if we're talking about the current epidemiological situation that civil protection headquarters needs to work and consult an epidemiologist's opinion from a particular area but I'm not that memo, I'm not familiar with that memo if it went.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34138	The next replica, the esteemed representative of Davor, find it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34139	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Members, since under the infringing provisions of this law we see that penalties are also provided for the leaders of units of local and regional (regional) self-government both for legal persons and natural persons, why are there no penalties for possible misdemeanors by the National Civil Protection Staff or by the Government under criminal provisions and the like? So, just for those who are at the bottom of that chain, why not those who are top-notch?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34140	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34141	Mr. MP, criminal provisions are always referred to the material provisions that are previously in the law, and therefore they are at the end and the material provision must be prescribed that some conduct is punishable, whether through a criminal offence, offence or otherwise, and on that basis the transitional provisions or criminal provisions prescribe a height or a range of penalties. In this case as well as in the case of other laws, as far as I know, there are always certain amounts of sanctions for infringements which are listed in advance in this case are units of local self-government or legal persons who have missed certain actions based on this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34142	Next replica, distinguished representative Marijan Pavliček.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34143	Dear Secretary of State, here's an earthquake in the banishment as well as a COVID pandemic has shown numerous shortcomings in the civil protection system that have come out. We currently have 576 civil protection headquarters in the Republic of Croatia, from national through county and up to municipal and urban, meaning we have a quantity but obviously we do not have the quality that has been shown, so I'm wondering whether in the direction of a genuine reform of the civil protection system in terms of reducing the number of headquarters because it has shown that, in particular, headquarters at local level in small municipalities have neither human resources nor technical opportunities to implement all those decisions required of them from the state level? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34144	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34145	Your Honor, Mr. Representative, in most of your exposure, you're right because we have as many municipalities and cities as we have. There is a new law in the civil protection system which will therefore seek to solve the identified or propose a solution to the identified problems. Civil protection is in the constitutional provisions of the day in a significant part in the jurisdiction of local self-government units, so to the municipalities and cities, until the constitution changes, we cannot change it, but I think there is logic, but the units of local self-government will be relieved of certain obligations, so making big plans or plans, because it is very small areas that one accident as we see in this topic that we are talking about, about these technological gamblings, that it affects a much larger area of a small municipality than a few kilometres of squares. So in this sense units will be disbursed local self-government and more funds will have to invest to their people, therefore to human and material resources. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34146	The next replica, the esteemed representative Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34147	Dear Representative, you will agree with me that any legal norm is independable from the implementation and application of the law and for the application of the Civil Protection System Act it is important that this system is prepared and that people who participate in this system, and especially members of the headquarters, are trained in advance for the tasks assigned to them. I'm wondering if you have an answer to a very specific question. Do you also know when members of both national headquarters, both at national level and at lower levels, have passed the training that the law requires, and by the logic of things, that training should be done before they take any action in the official capacity of a member of the staff?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34148	This time I give you a warning because you've been speaking completely off topic, it's not about this law, it's about amending the law. The next replica, the esteemed representative, Mariana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34149	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr Secretary of State, this law is passed in order to comply with the European Directive and with the dangers of major accidents. We know that when accidents occur, firemen arrive among the first on the ground. What I would welcome is that through these adjustments but also through the adjustments we have made in other legislation, there is more space for the use of European funds. Over the last 2 years, about 200 million euros have been invested in renovating and purchasing fire trucks for our firefighters. What interests me is that, according to some data, the average age of fire vehicles in Croatia is between 15 and 26 years old, will the programme continue to continue because we have witnessed to date that indeed whenever it is necessary, when an accident occurs, firefighters first come to the field and we need to provide them with adequate equipment so that they can react as we expect?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34150	Your Honor, ma'am. MPs, that's right about firefighters, they're our task force in general in the civil protection system with HGSS, HCK and special forces of civil protection. And in Banovina they were one of the most numerous in reactions, there were 800 firefighters with 225 vehicles, they had about 2500 interventions so far. I can report that out of the European and these grants, from EU funds, 94 fire trucks were purchased for HVZ, 20 of which were delivered yesterday and the rest will be subsistently acquired, these are the state-of-the-art vehicles and equipment on which, therefore, radio communication equipment worth 38m euros, I repeat, EU grants.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34151	Next replica, distinguished representative Tomislav Tomašević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34152	Thank you. These amendments to the law are actually trying to correct a mistake that has been made by mistransposing the EU directive. However, in that same law in Article 73, we have been obliged to establish, for the last 5 years, outside the Civil Protection Budget Fund which would finance the rescue and protection of natural disasters we unfortunately had last year. So it's not clear to me how is it possible that this government continuity in the last five years hasn't created this budget fund outside the budget fund? He's still breaking the law we passed in 2015.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34153	It wasn't the subject of this law that you know very well. I give you a warning, because you spoke out of the question. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34154	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear Secretary of State. You are taking part in a bit of interesting decisions where the Vice President of the Parliament decides which question we have well asked or not. But I will really stick only to these amendments and additions which, in fact, the 2015 law is in line with the EU Directive because it has initiated a right violation procedure. And it is especially important that this part that speaks of the cross-border danger of major accidents, or who could be affected by all these great accidents. So I am interested at this point you may be able to say either later and in writing respond to the European definition of the Republic of Croatia with which bilateral agreements already have to do with cooperation and to protect against natural disasters with potentially neighbouring countries or other countries, or with regard to some agglomerations or related to the EU. Thank you. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34155	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34156	Thank you, Madam Representative. Since a saying that is really true that major accidents do not know the limits often and in natural disasters such as those in 2014 large floods. They were not only in Croatia, but they were in a number of neighbouring countries. Fires during the summer period are in almost all countries on the Mediterranean and in a further environment. Therefore, in addition to being a member of a variety of conventions, international documents also have signed bilateral agreements with the vast majority of EU countries and our neighbourhood. And on that basis, the competent institutions work very closely together, making various plans when it comes to individual border areas. And therefore here too, you have well noted in Article 6 of the prescribed obligation of the Ministry to make a decision based on a risk assessment on the existence or absence of danger and informs the neighbouring country thereof. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34157	The next replica is the distinguished representative Maja Grba Bujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34158	Respect for Vice President of the Parliament, Secretary of State, Madam Associates. Here I would, in fact, single out the so-called Civil Protection Act from these amendments and additions to the Civil Protection Act. an external plan. I think that's something that really needed to be harmonised, that's what's missing from the current law because it's not enough that only the interior of the company that's possible for the polluter to have worked out that plan, but it's exactly that plan that needs to be extended to the entire community that surrounds the potential polluter and expands it as a defense plan for the whole end of the potential threat. I am therefore very pleased that this directive has been included.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34159	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34160	The MPs certainly like I initially said little that incident didn't leak out of the plant circle. For those who may not know each other in the circle of the plant, and sometimes they should be known about them, but they often have external consequences that these explosions or certain substances carried by wind or other atmospheric conditions are then sometimes approaching a further environment. Therefore, under our legislation, it is up to the County to adopt this external civil protection plan in the event of an accident and to manage further risks and to develop scenarios involving dangerous substances that we regulate by applying or harmonising with the CZV3 Directive.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34161	The next replica, distinguished representative Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34162	Dear Secretary, the bill also provides for fines if there is no plan for civil protection exercises and unless there is a civil protection exercise itself. What interests me is who actually brings the master plan, or who makes a proposal for these exercises? It means how these exercises should look since they are both about evacuation, who will then control it and what records should exist after that exercise in order to be credible that the exercise is done and that the people involved in the exercise are trained.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34163	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34164	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. Therefore, local and regional self-government units in this case are competent as a unit of regional or regional self-government, except as it is competent to adopt a plan and to monitor the implementation and behaviour of all stakeholders involved in this plan. Of course, certain exercises must be carried out, which may include the evacuation of the nearby population in accordance with the assessment. As for all other exercises, it is therefore necessary to adopt certain documents in preparation, in realisation and later in the conclusion of the success of the objectives of the exercise.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34165	Thank you with your replicas. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Perhaps the chairman of the Committee on Legislative Affairs and Home Policy? He doesn't want to. Then I'm opening a debate. I only ask you to stick to the subject, to hold to the debate on amendments and additions to the law that is now there, which we must comply with European directives. We have three more laws after this, two, respectively. And this debate could take all night. There's a debate about the law that triggered the opposition and it's about the Civil Protection Act, then we'll discuss it all day and night. Here today we are discussing these alignments with the European Directive and I ask you to stick to this topic, to stick to these changes. To all those who do not, I will have to give a warning just to lead this debate in this direction and not to bring up a debate on the other two points by 3 o'clock last night and then cry about how we discuss it at night and today allow a debate on what is not the subject of these changes and additions. The first debate is on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSLS and Reformists, distinguished representative Darko Klasic, please. And if you'll excuse me, Mr. Klasic, we have one violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34166	I believe that you are now injuring the Rules of Procedure with this interpretation because you are introducing a double standard in the same day of parliamentary debate. I will remind you that we had a point today regarding amendments to the Law on Railways, almost all but absolutely almost all MPs did not only adhere to the amendment of the Law on Railways but they spoke and spread about the railway and at least in the hand of the Law on Railways which did not change in the work. So if we're now applying different criteria for the second law on the same day, I think it's discrimination and it's problematic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34167	Okay, you've hurt the Rules of Procedure, I'm giving you a second warning. It's clear here, Art. The 238, which you are mainly calling for, it is clear in paragraph 1, that you can only talk about the subject, that you must not talk about a subject that is not subject to discussion. My responsibility is as long as I lead, when they're other vice presidents, then you complain there. Here you are, dear representative Klasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34168	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, dear Secretary of State. I see that we have gone broadly into debate here but given the elemental accident that has hit different parts of Croatia in the past year and where the civil protection system has shown certain operational shortcomings, perhaps it should have been really worked out and discussed to improve the civil civil protection system but this is actually about harmonising i.e. the completion of the EU Directive where the Civil Protection System Act includes the obligation to make a decision on the establishment of an external plan without delay and the obligation to provide harmonised data in a timely manner by operators, as well as the establishment of controls on the timeliness of the adoption of an external plan in dealing with dangerous substances in related facilities. More specifically, the obligation to inform the population and to draw up an external action plan in the event of major accidents in such facilities is defined, which should certainly be regulated precisely but here I have several observations, the proposal art. 3rd, Art. 9. In connection with the infringements of this law, they are misleading because it turns out that units of regional (regional) self-government are obliged to inform the population and produce information that can be prepared exclusively by an operator because they do not have to be aware or have knowledge of the operator about the storage of dangerous substances and nowhere in the proposal to supplement the Civil Protection System Act does not mention additional obligations of the operator relating to the need to inform the population. In addition, it is not based on other laws, e.g. The Environmental Protection Act does not exist in the event of non-informing by the operator of such a facility. We believe that informing the population in the area of threat should be coordinated and agreed with representatives of operators of such potentially dangerous facilities, or that joint implementation should be made. Representatives of the regional (regional) government may inform the population about the implementation of the external plan, how and direction of evacuation of the population and how to respond to the occurrence of this threat but there is no more competent person than the operator’s representative who will explain to the public the activities that take place within the plant’s area and decline in the implemented security processes and activities aimed at preventing the occurrence of a major accident. This part of information is also very important for instilling a sense of safety in the population that may be seriously threatened in the event of major accidents. In addition to the above, the population may also be informed by issuing leaflets and other means that require certain financial resources. I believe here that it is necessary for the operator, together with the units of the regional (regional) self-government, to participate financially in those activities because it is not mentioned here and to introduce an item on the need for the cooperation of the operator to inform the population. The burden of informing the population and the responsibilities related to this need to be evenly deployed between the operator, the obliged to draw up a report on the security of units of the regional (regional) self-government. I believe that the above obligation to cooperate with the units of the regional self-government in informing the population should certainly be prescribed in order to achieve successful coordination with the purpose of achieving that objective, and that this will result in quality and fuller information for the population. In the Environmental Protection Act, Art. 120 to 132 which prescribe areas of prevention of a major accident involving dangerous substances are not mentioned anywhere in terms of the obligation to inform the population which may be affected by a major accident by the operator, so there is no infringement provision for the failure to comply with the above, which is actually a major problem for local self-government units in the event of any major handicraft. For this reason, I believe that the Civil Protection System Act should prescribe an infringement for legal persons in the event that they do not cooperate with the units of the regional (regional) self-government in whose territory the area of the plant is located with the aim of providing the population with regular and appropriate forms of clear, easily understood, reassessed information on security measures and necessary behaviour in the case of a major accident in the area of the plant, otherwise, one such important obligation such as informing the population will be excluded from the liability of legal persons in a criminal context and they are, in most part, the most effective and verified information on the consequences of a major accident in the surrounding population. It is therefore apparent from this point of view that this information is required for the public to prepare and carry out the operator and that units of regional and regional self-government can distribute and download information and further inform the population of external performances. But he can't be the bearer of that information or be held accountable in the event that it isn't made. This law stipulates that it is actually exclusive to local self-government units only. It's final. The responsibility in the event of an incident in devices with hazardous substances is primarily the responsibility of the operator of those plants. Maybe most plastic if I can explain it to you, that's for example. There are two large complexes in the city of Zagreb for which we have no knowledge in the city of Zagreb of what substances they contain and in what quantities, but in fact responsibility takes over the city of Zagreb. We've got on Blackbeard where I'm at home is the Pliva plant. In fact, the local self-government does not know what amount of hazardous substances in Pliva is and which fire department has an area of action towards the facility and with whom they have an answer. Because they actually have their own fire unit, they do. We have a large in the east city we have an INA-OKI and a large storage of gas which is here for the absurd I read a little bit of data they have a contract with a public fire unit from Chakovec. We at the local self-government don't know what the amount of dangerous substances in the area is, and we need to be co-responsible in the event of an incident resulting from such a disaster. I think this law should regulate and include the responsibility of the operator himself, not just local self-government units. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34169	Thank you. Next debate, distinguished representative Marijan Pavliček on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34170	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State. Here, I believe that about a year ago almost no one in the Republic of Croatia knew from the citizens anything more about the civil protection system. Unfortunately, because of the COVID pandemic, because of the earthquake in Banovina, the Civil Protection Centre, or the Civil Protection System, has gained enormous importance, especially the national headquarters, and has even directed the direction of the state with its decisions. Whether they're justified or not, I'm not going to go into details right now. Unfortunately, however, the pandemic, as well as this earthquake in Banovina, has shown numerous shortcomings in the civil protection system itself in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. I am primarily referring to the functioning of the national headquarters and its compliance with local headquarters or regional and local municipalities and cities headquarters. In fact, let us remember the beginning of the pandemic itself, since I am at the head of the Civil Protection Headquarters of the city of Vukovar, we had several unspecified e-mails on a daily basis on how to act in the area of my municipality, our city. Afterwards, they introduced a radio link through the TETRA where we could contact and communicate with the national headquarters once a week. Now imagine us 5 hundred from the local level trying to reach within an hour to the national headquarters, the relationship cannot be established, we cannot come up with concrete answers to the specific questions that plague us and citizens in the area of the city and the municipalities in which we live. In addition, we also had huge problems with passes that we had to decide who needed them, which are less necessary or assess whether someone was justified but got a pass or not. All these are problems that show that the civil protection system of the Republic of Croatia needs root reforms. As I said in the replica today, we have 576 civil protection headquarters in the Republic of Croatia. National headquarters, 20 county headquarters, 556 municipalities and cities headquarters. All these local headquarters have only one task. Conduct national headquarters decisions. Now imagine what resources local headquarters has in one municipality with less than a thousand inhabitants. Neither human nor technical, implement all those decisions made by the national headquarters. This number of headquarters cannot be afforded one more man-made country such as Germany, let alone one Croatia. It is therefore extremely important to move forward with these amendments and additions to the Law that you mentioned where the primary number of headquarters should be reduced at local level, because we do not need quantity but quality. I think it's quite enough that there's a national headquarters, that there are county headquarters whose members are also members of a number of professional services that are activated at a time of crisis by the HGSS, by firefighters, by the Red Cross and who know how and what and what decisions to make at a given time, and not to leave the decision-making and conduct a decision to local headquarters where you simply don't have the resources to implement them. Also, in Article 25. The Civil Protection System Act says that members of the Civil Protection Headquarters are obliged to complete the training carried out by the Ministry according to the civil protection staff training programme. So I wonder, how many of these same staff members are truly qualified to respond in a crisis? That's very important. We all know how this training is done and how people continue to act, and nobody almost knows how to react at a given time. It is therefore necessary to introduce order here because unfortunately the paper and law in the Republic of Croatia all suffers, and the situation on the ground often gives us a negative surprise when we come into a crisis situation such as the COVID pandemic, such as the Banovina earthquake. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34171	The next debate is on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Mosta, the distinguished representative Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34172	My colleagues and colleagues, I find this announcement worrying that we will be limited to the subject of this debate exclusively to discuss dangerous substances and amendments to the railways, as my colleague Tomašević said, the most normal conversation, and now that you are afraid of talking about civil protection, because you yourself know and you acknowledge that we have a serious problem in the functioning of the civil protection system, you would now forbid us to talk. It won't work. I'll go back to what was funny to my colleagues in the HDZ ranks first. It's funny for you to talk about the Gaudua fortune affair, it's funny for you to spend 200 to 400 thousand kuna more than you should on the supply of cheese as part of the supply of civil protection that you have declared a secret, because it is of incredible security interest to the Republic of Croatia, be careful that we do not have a public supply of cheese in the situation in which we are currently in place. And what made it possible for you? So it made it possible for you to make fools of Croatian citizens. If it's funny to you, it'll be very clear to them, because they go to the store every day, and they eat simple, working cheeses and buy them at the prices that are suitable for their pockets. So they cost Gouda in retail, which is more expensive than 40-55 kuna, and imagine Gouda for the Civil Protection Staff cost 80 kuna. And no, I wasn't lazy, and I checked the price of that, Zdenko Gaude, so here she is a year ago at the action in Tommy, if you want to find out exactly about 55 kuna, and you're... action, and in order for you fellow Boric, I see you smiling, getting 7,500 kilos [[Insect: you can't hear...]] and the topic is Civil Protection Headquarters, in this respect and supply [[attack Ante Sanader: please do not communicate with MPs and stick to the topic, speak completely off topic...]] The Honorable Chairman, your obligation is in the way you interpret it at best, that if you consider it necessary, and I find it unwarranted, after my speech, to give you a warning, I must make you sad and say that it is the only penalization that gives this Regulation and the Law such an indication that you can assign someone as a council representative, and you cannot interrupt me in the midst of my debate. [[Adversity of Ante Sanader: It is not the subject of this Act and is not the Boric theme of this Law, please stick to the Law and talk about Amendments and Supplements to the Law.]] So you're free to go. and after that you can assign a reminder, if you like. [[attack Ante Sanader: I can interrupt you because you are communicating with other agents...]] So, yes, cheese is not a harmless topic at all, and the fact that it's being acquired at a far greater price than it should be is just the beginning of a public procurement affair that we haven't even managed to scratch, because it's still a secret, and if we can see it on such simple examples that are clear to every citizen, which is then with the purchase of all those medical equipment, they make prices not known to us and we can't understand it. Who knows what kind of affairs are hiding out there. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, we need to talk and I want to talk to you about Gaud the Gate. And now I will relate to the functioning of the Civil Protection Staff, or the problems that lie in this Law. So, what is the basic problem of this emergency procedure, another emergency procedure, which we are offering here in order to comply with the legal gains of the European Union, which is once again a cosmetic but necessary adjustment, instead of a substantial change in the law, if we have understood something at the time of this crisis, in terms of the functioning of the Civil Protection Staff, that we need a substantial adjustment to the Law so that we can continue to function. Especially now in a situation where we have a disaster instead of within a disaster, where we need to change the whole approach, not only to act reactively but also proactively. Where we have a general problem with the functioning of the repressive apparatus, where we have disasters controlled by the MUP, and this civilian civil protection is least visible and where regular forces come into place even health forces, this second Civil Protection Headquarters, which is the government of Croatia in the process we can freely call Croatian headquarters. We also have a vague command line, we don't even know when Croatia's headquarters will end, until the regular forces and civil protection commanders are on the ground, which is the point of saying that it is enough and that we are now moving towards civil functioning of society. The inability to assimilation volunteers, we've all witnessed it. What's the matter with the law itself? So, the problem with the law itself, which we haven't touched again, because we only change laws when we don't have to, and we don't change when we have to. In things that would make it easier for us to function on the ground and which appeared to be obvious ambiguities, we have skipped the adjustment of the legal framework, and when we are forced for the European Union, we add something here and there. The council isn't here to discuss something that doesn't need to be discussed. So Article 3. Civil Protection Act, definition of disaster in relation to the definition of major accident. What's a disaster? The disaster is a key concept on the basis of which we have even determined how to finance recovery in the affected areas, but the disaster is defined by an event which, among other things, cannot be prevented or the consequences removed by the operation of all the operational forces of the Civil Protection System of the region, regional self-government in which the event occurred. The basic problem of the definition which was crucial after the earthquake and which defined the scope of the funding is based on the quality of civil protection of a particular area. What does that mean? Simply, if you had a local authority that missed to organise civil protection, you would now be rewarded by 100% funding, it is out of your mind, because citizens cannot be responsible for that civil protection being or not functioning on the ground. They are not the ones who need to be held accountable for the effectiveness of Civil Protection. And that is the question that even raises the constitutionality of the law that we were recently forced to bring. Supposedly, to show concern for the earthquake affected area, and in fact to introduce discrimination in the Croatian legal-political order which will be bypassed by the earthquake-stricken area next time it is not important. Another problem, of course, which is the function of the Civil Protection Staff at local and regional level. In certain segments under the Law, it is professional, operational and co-ordinated, Article 21(2), and in the second part it is implemented in Article 26. Who's supposed to be in charge of headquarters anyway? Can we include those who have political legitimacy? What about the problem of one commander covering too many units, which in practice is completely dysfunctional? And how are we going to distinguish the jurisdiction between the ministry and the representative body of the local self-government unit? I believe that we are all interested in this Croatian headquarters so that we do not have the repression and dictatorship of the regular forces instead of the civil response to the disasters affecting the citizens affected at a certain point. Of course, it is the function of the Parliament because we also have the Law on the mitigation and elimination of the consequences of natural disasters when the role of the Parliament is activated, not exclusively the role of the Civil Protection Staff. Can civil protection even organize and coordinate volunteers and citizens? Let us not forget that we are all citizens of civil protection bonds more or less and that it is a constitutional category in the jurisdiction of local self-government units. What can we do to make this situation at least somewhat better? First, in order to be able to discuss whether or not civil protection has adequately responded to the situation on the ground, and most of the objections have been made in the direction that its reaction has been delayed, we must unequivocally set up a time frame to define which expected time at which the civil protection headquarters should be activated in the event of a disaster. Gold watch as it exists in medicine, so we can have it here. Whether we will have one or two days, but this framework must be defined in order to be able to valorise the work of civil protection headquarters later. Of course we have to watch HGSS work. The HSSS works effectively and quickly because it is not part of a heavy, tromog and bureaucratized system. We also need to apply this model of functioning to reducing red tape levels to the functioning of the civil protection system. Because of the large number of counties, because of the large number of units of local self-government, we need to clearly identify areas where civil protection will work, because this is how we lead to it being dysfunctional at all levels. Because we can't cover so many areas with clearly defined operating power. And of course, what's most important is that it relates to investments in civil protection because now we've seen and properly monitored of course the supply system, because now we've seen how much it can cost us when not only disaster happens, but disaster within disaster. And I'll end up with what I started with. It doesn't matter, it's not another topic and it doesn't matter how the civil protection headquarters is supplied. Only those who have easily filled their pockets, and this does not happen with hard work can be funny when we talk about the price of cheese for this speaker. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34173	Okay. Your entire debate was off topic. I give you a second warning. The next debate is the House Movement Representatives' Club. Dear MPs Bartulica and Spajic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34174	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, here we have one important item on the agenda. We in the Homeland Movement often point out that public services in Croatia, unfortunately, do not meet the real needs of our people. And unfortunately this earthquake in Zagreb and in Banovina, but also the pandemic of the Coronal, unfortunately, has demassed that truth saddened that we actually have a state that is dysfunctional. We have as we've heard when it comes to civilian headquarters over 500 headquarters from local to national. And of course the question is, how do you fix it? We think first of all that the activation of the National Guard should be considered as mentioned earlier in these discussions. So we have experience from the Homeland War and we need to think beyond these defined frameworks how to build these services better. However, I must look back at some of the currents from the work of the National Staff. It is said in some cases of excess vaccines in some cases. Generally for the general population, we have one major vaccine deficiency. And we listen every day to various interpretations of why it is. However, what is certain is that in this case, the government of Prime Minister Plenkovic had too much confidence in the European institution, in the European bureaucracy about this plan for the procurement and distribution of vaccines and we are now in the situation as it is. Looks like the Russian vaccine will give us a solution. There's a very intense discussion now about what happened a month ago, two almost unimaginable because we've been listening to these statements that everything goes according to plan, and nothing goes according to plan, absolutely nothing. It turns out that if you're not well networked, you can't get what belongs to you, and that also points to this condition of two categories of people in Croatia. Those who belong to the rulings who are very close to them are all possible to them, and the rest are actually citizens of the second order, unfortunately. I often hear how important solidarity is here in Croatia, how our system is good and similar. I'm afraid behind the word solidarity is actually a large clienteleist network of people and corruption in the most basic things like health care, public health of nations. The reconstruction of Zagreb, I would briefly say, has not happened for almost a year. We have the law as it is, I will not enter into the details of this law now. However, I will repeat that we hear that Croatia allegedly received 680m euros from European funds after the disaster. However, we have not yet seen what this money has been spent on nor have we seen anything concrete that would indicate that this money has been spent in a responsible manner. On the contrary, they simply deal with numbers and no one sees any concrete results, unfortunately, and it worries. It is not enough to point out that we have received some money, but the system must be responsible and transparent in spending that money. There's a special item for that, and we haven't heard the explanation yet. So, ladies and gentlemen, once again, I'm going to say that this doesn't add up to trust. We have no objection to adapting our EU legislation. However, we should insist on a more serious debate on the very implementation of these laws and on the functioning of our system. Here's so much from me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34175	Thank you very much, dear fellow Bartulico. I would like to welcome you to your distinguished colleagues and colleagues. For the next few hours, I'll be running the session. Before I give my word to my esteemed colleague, I will give you a violation of the Rules of Procedure after the debate is over because it is united. What I'm saying is that unlike my predecessor, I stick to the Rules of Procedure and, in accordance with Articles 231 and 232, I have the right to take away your word. I will take away your word if you deserve it if you do not stick to the subject, and you can appeal to the Committee on Rules of Procedure, i.e. for the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. Dear colleague Spijić, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34176	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed chairman. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Civil Protection System Act is harmonising the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with EU legislation. After an earthquake in Banovina, they waited for days for help to come. The HGSS visited the victims first just to ask them if they were killed and that's it. It took at least a week for the Red Cross to start handing out food and clothes for a week. The real question is, who was supposed to visit the victims in that week? Where was the state back then, where were the institutions, where was Civil Protection? As usual, they're not there when they need them most. Should we order our country of Europe to help our people who have lost a roof over their heads, a people who have lost access to bread, families with children without beds and no wardrobe? Again, I am taking the opportunity to thank all the volunteers who have jumped in where our expensive and overrated state has not been able, the state represented by the prime minister and ministers in expensive coats of virgin hair. I remind you that after the flood in Posavina, the Civil Protection System came out first. It took the Ministry of Agriculture five days to start saving the cattle that were in the icy water waiting for them to have mercy, at least to untie them. But you have to admit to people, however, civil protection has jumped in to help. What happened to the Civil Protection system in the last four years? What do the commissioners do, deputy chiefs who are also presidents of local civilian headquarters? What do the mayors and mayors who are presidents of the civil protection headquarters? I'll tell you what they're doing? They're dealing with the fear of the covid instead of helping the unhappy. I don't generalize, there are decent people in those positions but very little. This earthquake has revealed a lot. First of all, he exposed all the misery and misery of a system that wasn't there for the little man. The system is not there when his life is threatened, when there is no roof over his head, when he remains hungry, naked and bare on the road without basic help. And it is good that, with this harmonisation with EU legislation, they impose monetary sanctions on units of local self-government that do not respect the law, because our system has no empathy for its people, no sense of hunger, no need to help when it is difficult. Maybe the mayors, the mayors and the mayors are afraid of a fine that's gonna kick them in the pocket, get a dose of humanity back and into their lives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34177	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, dear colleague Spijic, you did not stick to the subject. In the end, you tried to get away with it, but it is consistent with Article 239. I give you a warning. Dear colleagues of Maja Grba-Bujevic, you have suffered a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34178	Dear fellow Vice President, thank you for your word. Since you have now given notice, I will withdraw my breach of the Rules of Procedure. That is exactly what I was about to point out that the honourable MPs did not stick to the subject and the violation of Article 238. Well, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34179	Thank you. On this topic, we will continue on behalf of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club, a respected colleague, Tomislav Tomašević. And please make sure you have two warnings, I have a record here, so stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34180	Well, I have to admit, I don't think we can have any parliamentary debates if we're going to have double standards. And here's what I'm gonna do. I'm gonna risk that third warning. But I simply don't understand how we can begin today's parliamentary debate over amendments to the Law on Railways. All the clubs, all the MPs have been arguing more widely than these changes. However, they debated even wider than the Law on Railways, so that they could begin to interpret the Rules of Procedure in a different way this afternoon. And not to mention my afternoon colleague, for example, Vice-President Sanader, did not warn the first representative on behalf of the Sovereign Club who also did not stick to the subject. So I just think that if we have a dispute, then we need to settle it at the Presidency because so far there has never been an interpretation of the Rules of Procedure in a way that we should strictly stick to the debate, not in the amendments, but in the debate of amendments, exactly the law that is the subject, which is on the agenda. We've always spread the debate at least on that law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34181	Thank you very much for the suggestion. I presented this suggestion at the last narrow meeting of the Croatian Parliament Presidency and I suggested that the Rules of Procedure be changed, we know that it is imperfect, but let it be the discretionary right of every president to lead the session as he wishes, either in accordance with the Rules of Procedure or inconsistencies of the Rules of Procedure. I'm very tolerated, believe me, but here I was just warning you that you have two warnings, I'm going to be tolerated to a certain limit. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34182	Okay, so these are amendments to the Civil Protection System Act, which came to the agenda of the Croatian Parliament, because it was mistranslated, in fact the EU Directive of 2020, was initiated and therefore found, these amendments to the law, similar to the amendments to the Law on Railways that we had in the morning, also because of the violation of law, also because the European Commission felt that the relevant Directive had been mistranslated. And in that sense, I think it's about technical changes and they don't get into the core of the problems that are in the Civil Protection System Act itself and generally in the Civil Protection System. I cannot discuss only these amendments here in the Croatian Parliament without even talking about breaking other articles of that same Civil Protection System Act. So, if the Croatian Parliament is unable to argue when a second article of this Law is found to be in breach, then I do not know where it can be debated and whether it is appropriate for the Croatian Parliament not to apply or not to warn against the implementation of the Law itself by the Croatian Parliament. So in 2015, the Civil Protection System Act clearly states in Article 73 that an extra budget fund for civil protection will be established, especially for financing equipment and saving after natural disasters. It hasn't happened since 2015, and this is the government of continuity, and now it's 2021, and unfortunately, we've had three natural disasters last year. And in that, it means two devastating earthquakes and a pandemic, so in that sense I really don't understand why we have to, when natural disaster happens, think about how we're going to build a fund to which citizens are going to pay, for help, etc., if we were obliged to do so already under the law. If you do not think so, you will see that in paragraph 3, it seems to me, that same article 73 clearly states that there will be a special Law that will be adopted by the Croatian Parliament, which will prescribe the structure and the part-line of this special extra- budget fund. As far as I know, this Law has never been passed, and if we are already talking about changes in technical terms, for the wrong to transpose the EU Directive into the Civil Protection System Act, let's talk about something we don't implement and obviously violate the Law, because it is also the role of the legislator. When he sees that something of the law passed by the Parliament does not implement to warn and correct it. On the other hand, what we have, of course, given the interpretation of the Civil Protection System, the five opposition clubs, obviously today we will not have any conditions, which I think is devastating, but we want to discuss the Civil Protection System in Croatia in a way to improve it. I think it's in everyone's interest, because when natural disasters happen then it's too late to improvise, we have to be ready before, I think we can learn some lessons from the answer, especially the earthquake in Bania, because it's obvious that some things didn't work very well. I will never say that nothing worked, because it would have been wrong, I was in the field, and I know very well what worked out firsthand and I will always commend it, the services that did well, but I also think that from some things that worked badly we should draw lessons, and not forget now about this natural disaster and hope that the next one will not happen for the next 100 years. So now, while this is still a fresh experience, I think we need to open up this topic, we have addressed the Interpelation, but when it comes to the agenda, when it comes to plenary debate, I don't know, and from that perspective I think it is quite appropriate to talk about this aspect of the Civil Protection System Act and, in general, about the Civil Protection System when it comes to amendments for the wrong transposition of the EU Directive. I'll remind you that in fact in the last 15 years we haven't invested, we haven't actually increased isolation for the Civil Protection System. We had once a small, small exception one year, which is actually more technical and is tied to EU funds than it really is out of the budget, so in fact 15 years, I'm going to give you another example, we're in Sisak-Moslavina County in 2019 we have 25 thousand kuna in our budget for civil protection equipment for the entire Sisak-Moslavina County, 25 thousand kuna. It's, then, I believe it's less than the mayor's gross salary, one monthly. So we didn't invest enough, it's under A. Sub B, the system we're after me with the adoption of the National Security System Act I think we've made one mess. I don't understand how it's possible that we have three natural disasters last year, and we haven't once applied the National Security System Act, and it's no longer clear what the relationship between the Civil Protection Act and the Homeland Security System Act is anymore. What we saw and when the Staff was founded in Banja, it was not clear by which law we will actually act and who has the role of coordination and what exactly the chain of responsibility is. I think it's crucial in natural disasters, if you don't know the chain of responsibility, if you don't know exactly which institution coordinates the work of other institutions we have a problem, and this problem can also mean that it costs us at the end of human lives. We can't afford that kind of improvisation. So I can come from experience, and a number of parliamentary deputies were also on the ground, and I've seen other MPs, say that coordination wasn't the best, so every honor to the HGSS, every honor to the firemen, the police, the military, but civil protection itself didn't coordinate the work of those services well, that's under A. Pod B, there was no good communication between state institutions and self-organised citizens. At the very least, it's euphemism, when I say it wasn't good communication, because I can also say, for example, Mr. Damir Trut, the director of Civil Protection is fighting with fans because they are too helpful, as Mayor Žinić tells the population, as we discuss how HEP should write off the heating bills because they are in containers in the middle of winter, he says they need to be rationally heated and they don't need to be overheated, because then it will cost too much. Or let's say Minister Horvat says, watch out for January 9th, so I'll remind you the most devastating earthquake was December 29th. He said on January 9th that at this point in Banja, too many warm meals are being cooked and that people eat too much and some who shouldn't. So it's not a good communication with the citizens who came in there to help. And what I'm going to warn you about is what we personally wrote to Damir Trut right after the first earthquake that there were no days or phones that citizens can answer that want to help, not a single phone number. A few days later, a lot of phone numbers were released. Then there was another kind of problem, and that was communication because people answered different phone numbers. So what's clear when you see it can be said from at least your field experience, just to say the humanitarian aid aspect, that we didn't have an advance protocol on how to transport humanitarian aid, how to store this humanitarian aid, and how to ultimately distribute this humanitarian aid to those who need it most. I can tell you this from experience because I was there and I was involved in that improvisation the best I knew and washed, but the protocol was gone, and I don't think we should do it again. The same thing that needs to be mentioned is also some kind of budget. Let's say I give you another example. We don't have a medical helicopter. We use military helicopters for situations like that. We've given the amendment to the budget in time. In early December. Before the earthquake for one of those medical helicopters. He didn't make it. We've also given amendments to increase resources for civil protection. It didn't pass. All right. So everyone can be a general after the battle, but let's really have a constructive discussion now how it ends these changes to the technical laws on the civil protection system so that we can improve this system. I think we can even come up with some things where we have a consensus in the Croatian Parliament, because you never know who will be in what position and where the next natural disaster will come and who will need help. No one can know that, and from that perspective, I think it's in everyone's best interest that the system works better.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34183	Thank you very much. Here's what ended well for you and me. The next speaker is representative Mirela Ahmetovic, on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34184	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the respected state secretary with a co-worker, co-workers and fellow MPs. As we often talk too often today about the law or the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Civil Protection System Act, and all for the reasons why we need to comply with European directives or European acquis. I would be happier if we were to talk about amendments to the existing law which would be aimed at increasing the quality of the functioning of the civil protection system, and that would be happier for all those who took part in public consultation on this law, whose objections have not been adopted. In turn, the government rejected them all for a reason or reason that these remarks will be considered when the next amendment to the law, and I sincerely hope that they will be considered very correctly and in quality and that some of them will be applied during that amendment. What I would like to look at are Articles 8, 9, 10 and 11 of these amendments, which speak of penalties to the units of local self-government and legal persons in charge of those units of local self-government unless the provisions of the Law on Civil Protection and of course other activities are respected, all in connection with that same civil protection. Someone here asked here a while ago in the debate whether or not the penalties for the national level of the civil protection system were envisaged. And I would say that with a very justified question because we all, but without exception, have noticed that there have been too many gaps in the functioning of the national civil protection system, which should definitely be sanctioned so that we never again get hit by such a serious accident, and that those who need to think and care about exactly those who need it most at these moments actually don't really know who's wearing their heads in order to say it. In Croatia we are always happy to deal with punishment. We do not deal with prevention and I find it extremely sad because we have an example of the earthquake and the pandemic of two disasters that hit us in the same year, and we are going to fight the consequences certainly this year, but also the next years. Neither, nor could we have chosen, nor could we have predicted. We couldn't have much effect on that. We couldn't stop it. It happened really suddenly, and no one is responsible or guilty for the event itself. However, it would be good if we all asked together what we could have done better? For example. The fact is that after the earthquake on December 29, 2020 in Banovina, the system did not respond adequately and let's stop looking for excuses and stop embellishing it. Let's stop saying that. We have to say it. We must repeat that, and all with a goal of responding adequately next time. There's been a lot of confusion on those first days that we can kind of understand, because such a disaster can't be predicted or avoided. But the impression remained that the system did not work, nor did it know who was doing it, nor did it know whose ingenuity it was. What has probably left the added bitter taste is the fact that the headquarters of civil protection, or Sisak-Moslavina County, which is the most hit by a devastating earthquake, I am not speaking in terms of the area, but in general very hard to deal with by a devastating earthquake in August 2019, brought the document Risk Assessment of Major Accidents for Sisak-Moslavina County and there very clearly categorically, explicitly quoted as saying: "as the low willingness of a special task force for complex rescue actions". The document was also published on the official sites of the county. ‘Civil Protection Team’, the report further states: ‘they did not go through the prescribed training programme, nor are they equipped with personal or joint equipment. For these reasons, operational treatment is limited, and only for complex rescue actions and providing physical support to more operational capacity during the implementation of measures and activities of civil protection in major accidents." Therefore, I say it is justified that penalties have also been provided for local self-government units in this case of regional self-government. But I think there is a constant lack of penalties, or sanctions for non-compliance and the highest body, of that most responsible body of the national civil protection body. Who's going to answer for this? Who exactly will be responsible for bringing the document to the county itself, and we are not prepared to provide civil protection even though we should. And then almost two years later, this same county, or its headquarters, has to react and is not adequately equipped or trained to react. Is the mayor going to answer? I doubt it. Personally, I think it is necessary to adopt protocols to coordinate the action of all dedicated forces in the event of a disaster, to know exactly whose task it is, so that there is no forest in communication. And what matters most is that the system is based on professional, not political legs. We had the opportunity to watch not exactly the calming messages of the most responsible one that I will once again call the most responsible director of the Civil Protection System, Mr. Trutt, about how parents will not be able to pick up their children when passes have been introduced. Remember that? Then he declared that fans were guilty of chaos on the ground after the earthquake and eventually as Director of Civil Protection did not know that there was an evacuation of a military station in Petrinja. I repeat, I have no intention of criticising it, but certain statements by the leaders seemed more like policy gossip than a professional and balanced message to the public in this merciless event of the earthquake. In late 2019, Mr Trutt said that Croatia is ready for all situations, we are even ready to help other countries in such situations. And we did help, we helped Albania in a devastating earthquake, which is very commendable. But what saddens me once again was that we weren't able to help ourselves. This same Mr. Trutt himself was unable to help his country. And I appreciate solidarity with other countries, but I'd appreciate it a lot more if we were here to take care of our country first. Education. It is the primary task of this law and educate the people who will rescue us tomorrow must not be seen as a burden to the state budget, but to invest in the security and trust of our citizens. The training, preparedness and equipment of the task force whether it is the military, the firemen, the HGSS, the Civil Protection must be our priority. When we talk about protocols, I mentioned a little before, we can no longer be told that protocols only exist on paper. And they can't and can't be principled. It's just not protocol, then it's just filling in. The protocol knows what it says, who does what, why it works, how it works, when it works, and then there's no room to manipulate and transfer responsibility from one to another. I don't even know whose benefit to protocol, a clear protocol doesn't bring. Well, I guess the rulings are in favour of having a clear protocol they're following and then avoiding the possibility of criticizing the opposition, but also the possibility of their citizens being unprotected as they were in this situation right now. Speaking of protocols, I'm gonna use it and say that we've been waiting 50 days for the vaccination protocol. And what happened? People began to vaccinate in order without anyone knowing who was being vaccinated, where they were being vaccinated, why they were being vaccinated and when they were being vaccinated. Yes, we've prescribed the first vaccination groups, but there are no strict protocols that could prevent abuse and guessing within the course of the vaccination itself. And yet it happened to us that there is no order, order, and that, even with the vaccines that should be the greatest reach of humanity in this situation, corruption and guessing are evident. Why do we need that? I really don't think we need that. The clear protocol is one that cannot serve, and in this situation this vague protocol serves exactly as an alibi for using holes in inadequate protocol. The Civil Protection Act is an important law, and in addition to these amendments, which we in the SDP will support, given that they are in line with European directives, it is necessary to pass a law which will meet the new circumstances and which will indeed become the point of trust of Croatian citizens in the institutions of the Republic of Croatia, which these same citizens are paying for in order to ensure their safety. I encourage the Government of the Republic of Croatia and all of us to propose changes that will generate positive processes in the civil protection system so that the future disaster can still be welcomed by a more prepared one. [[Intruder Škoro: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34185	Thank you. Please be careful on time another time. The next is a respected representative, Mario Kapulica, on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Union's Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34186	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, fellow MPs. These amendments and additions to the laws that are before us today, which have received a positive opinion from all the relevant parliamentary committees, are obviously not questionable because we talk a little about them. It's not weird. This is about the necessary alignment with EU directives and a clearer definition of some concepts and obligations related to accidents involving dangerous substances. If the debate were to remain on this, I am convinced that we would agree very quickly on the proposed solutions, and therefore, since the debate on this does not lead to mention some of the facts that are related to today's topic in order for the public to understand at all what the topic today is in front of his representatives in this House of Commons. The EU Directive applicable from August 2012 and all Member States had to include it in their national legislation by May 2015. Croatia did so within that time limit. The directive seeks to control the dangers of major accidents involving dangerous substances, especially chemicals, that is its purpose. The name of this Directive is all three, as it amends the previous and original Directive of that name. The reason for the adoption of this Directive was a catastrophic accident in the Italian city of Seveso, 76, when the then European Economic Community decided to define an exact legal framework to prevent and control such accidents. Let's remind ourselves, that's where that Italian town, 20 kilometers away from Milan, went from a chemical plant to produce herbicides and pesticides into the atmosphere to a dense cloud of steam of dangerous substances. The wind - carried dioxin has spread across the area so that rain will pollute about 1,800 ha of soil. More than 2,000 people were treated because of the effects of poisoning, and in this area there was a significant increase in spontaneous abortions in months after the disaster. More than 80,000 animals were killed for preventing possible harmful effects on people, and the total damage was estimated at more than 40m euros. The subsequent amendments to the Directive are driven by specificities of later major accidents, those in central India, 84th and explosions in chemical facilities that have endangered the population of cities in the Netherlands and France. And let's remind ourselves, in central India, a pesticide factory drained a large amount of chemicals causing one of the greatest industrial accidents in mankind's history. According to NGOs, more than 25,000 people died after the accident, and another 150,000 people suffered from chronic diseases. The Republic of Croatia transported the Directive through 23 legal acts, including the Civil Protection System Act. A list of all these acts, both Croatian and all other members, is available to the public. Why these changes? After the adoption of a Directive, each Member State shall submit to the European Commission a list of acts to which it applies, after which the Commission shall carry out a detailed analysis of the compliance of those acts and of the Directive in question for each Member State. It is a common process involving all members, and it is generally more or less inconsistencies. Where the European Commission detects these discrepancies in its analysis, it shall inform the Member State thereof. Therefore, following a detailed comparison of our 23 legal acts, some of which in this Civil Protection Act have identified certain shortcomings and requested certain amendments which mainly relate to Articles 12 and 14 of that Directive. So much for the scale of things and this agenda point. But it is quite clear that the opening of every debate on the Civil Protection system in these circumstances, however far this distances us from the metrics, turns things into a debate about the functioning of the system at all. And the Croatian Democratic Community has no problems with such an approach, it is clear to all, and none of this escapes that in individual crises it is important to act in each individual organisation to deal with a particular crisis and to coordinate the activities of all institutions, the maximum engagement of people, and the rational use of available resources. Concerningly, however, the ease with which thousands of people are engaged in the Civil Protection system during this earthquake is minor. When it comes to earthquakes, the number of people killed is known, but the number of injured is less known, the number of sick persons, the number of persons to be evacuated, who were still in need of help, the number of persons who had lost their roof over their heads, the amount and size of the damage in the economy, infrastructure, roads, roads, property in general. Thus, it is extremely difficult for an ordinary person to see, no matter how hard the hard work needed to make and which is invested in such situations to normalize and bring the situation into order as soon as possible. We discussed today in this point about cheeses, goods supplies, the number of organisational units of Civil Protection, the problems with passers-by, the earthquake, the pandemic, the abolition of the principle of subsidiarity in the Civilian Protection System on the creation of the National Guard, probably the return of the position of civil protection at the post of 94, when it was in the system of the Ministry of Defence due to war circumstances, the vaccination, crime, corruption, coats, the privilege of ruling, although I do not understand how someone could be privileged in the event of a disaster of dangerous substances and whether 10.5 thousand members of the Croatian Democratic community in Sisak-Moslavina County are privileged in this situation with an earthquake or 4600 in Glina, Petrinja and Sisak. None of the two representatives of the Homeland Movement who spoke here said a word of dangerous substance. Neither did a colleague from the Social Democratic Party, but they accused the Red Cross and the leaders and local administrations of doing nothing for a week. We've heard a lot of criticisms that I want to believe are well-intentioned, but local authorities and the local civil protection system have done their job well under the conditions of the first shock. The inclusion of additional forces outside the site of this extraordinary event has achieved its purpose. He supported the operation of the local forces. International aid was quickly and highly organised. In extreme situations that in some segments can only be compared to wartime situations, such co-operation by state institutions and local authorities is of crucial importance and it is certain that the perception of the overall situation on this condition, conditionally said, of the battlefield, cannot be sufficiently seen from the position of a common soldier or by the alleged ordinary member of civil protection. But any criticism if it helps us to give a better answer as a society is welcome. But also if it has diminished our ability to act, it has led people into confusion, and especially if it has prevented them from working with institutions and organisations and people who are key to removing the consequences of this crisis from being the local or national character for such people, we cannot say that they are welcome. And I would like to reiterate that the Government, all its, all its resolute competent authorities of the MUP, the Civil Protection Headquarters, the operational forces of the fire department, the Red Cross, the Croatian Mountain Rescue Services, the troops and the commissioners and legal persons in the civil protection system, the units of local and regional self-government, numerous governments and NGOs, organisations and associations, scientific, professional and other institutions dealing with and of particular interest and importance in handling the protection and elimination of the consequences of disasters have passed their exam. And of course, with future spatial planning, building awareness of the existence of dangers, the development of the security culture of the population, including science in reducing the risk of disasters and further improving the professional, normative and material framework will increase both our capacity and our willingness to deal with these situations. And of course, as many have said in their statements before and before this debate is an unbiased and extraordinary issue in which such an approach is expected from all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34187	Thank you, dear fellow Capula. We have another debate on behalf of the counseling club. In this case, the Club of Representatives of the Centre and Vosa, a respected representative of Dalia Oreskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34188	Honored chairman, fellow MPs and MPs. Today we are talking about the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Civil Protection System Act. As long as I'm talking about any part of that law that can be submitted to the end of this debate and I'm moving on as part of the subject. Therefore, any disabling of the debate would be the most dangerous precedent not only in this meeting of the Croatian Parliament, but also in relation to all previous ones. Dear Chairman, given your opening remarks on how you will take your word if he turns away from the colossal topic he is talking about, I will remind you that in the elections you have worked very hard to prove that you are different from HDZ. I would now be surprised if you would help them to force the MPs to act like an owl and to push our head into the sand compared to the reality surrounding us, and the reality is that for a long time we have a situation in which two, not one, but two civil protection headquarters, according to their powers, in the way they are founded, are jumping out of the scope of their work fatly from the provisions of Articles 21 and 22. Civil Protection Act. And if this meeting of the Croatian Parliament is not able to discuss the fact that we have anti-constitutional and illegal two headquarters and not one, if we are not able to discuss the situation after the disaster has already taken place, instead of having pre-formed, trained, prepared, educated headquarters, so if we can't discuss it today in this topic, then actually none of us should be able to come to work tomorrow or until the end of this term. And as soon as I touched on the questions of the unconstitutional existence and the work of the current headquarters, there was a grumbling on this side of the HDZ side of the assembly, and I was warned that I was obliged to respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court. I will therefore also stress this time my personal constitutional right as parliamentary representatives to take into account, in addition to respecting the Constitutional Court's decision as a whole in my speech, the views of those constitutional judges who gave their opinions. And these judges have indicated that those rules for which citizens have addressed the Constitutional Court, and so are parts of the Civil Protection System Act, are a flagrant violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia's rights and freedoms of citizens. Some constitutional judges believe that the Constitutional Court itself, and without the citizens’ submission of any proposal, should have been made public and should have responded to the violation of certain constitutional principles. Unfortunately, though, that did not happen. For a long time now, our Constitutional Court has not reacted or taken care of the protection of the constitutional rights of citizens, but has taken care of the protection of the needs and political interests of the government, the government's headquarters and the government's parliamentary majority. Such a situation seriously rushes into the collapse of democracy as we know it or at least what we want to establish in Croatia. Some constitutional judges also point out that the situation is related to an epidemic of the entire spectrum of measures introduced by the headquarters created one situation of severely restricted rights and a situation that corresponds greatly to the state of emergency. Therefore, all the measures taken were to be taken under Article 17 of the basic Regulation. A constitution that of course didn't happen. Constitutional judges also point out that no matter what danger she threatened, it doesn't matter if something is done by the Constitution or by the Constitution. However, such practice acts contrary to the Constitution, contrary to the law is not a party to this side of the assembly. We have also heard that since 2015 we have not been able to establish a Civil Protection Fund even though the law makes it clear, and now we are working very hard to break the definitions because the European Commission or any other body has found that we are not able to translate something into our legal system as well as in that previous law. So, the more extraordinary the situation, the harder the situation and the deviation from the usual situation, the more important it is to respect constitutional provisions. Your logic is just the opposite of that. Constitutional rights are the most endangered in these extraordinary situations. The law must be in advance and clear to those whose behaviour needs to be regulated and therefore again I point out, it is absurd to insist on a clear, precise, precise definition of a dangerous substance, and not to think about how dangerous it is when the full implementation of the Law is moved outside both constitutional and legal frameworks. By forming a body for which there is no foothold in the law. By granting powers for which there is no legitimate and justified, proportionate public interest. The earthquake in Bania has shown one shocking fact, perhaps more dangerous and destructive by its consequences than the earthquake itself, which is that only that first Staff has been fortified and that we have assigned to the authority of this Staff something that was not necessary at all, something that was needed all along and had to be done by the health minister. Furthermore, we have created competition with the Civil Protection and Homeland Security System Act, and it is this competition that has disabled two different laws and a complete invention of the non-existent and unnecessary powers given to the Covid Defence Staff, so it has virtually prevented a timely reaction to the earthquake in Banja. The second, the new Civil Protection Headquarters, which we can also call the Podposter for needs, was founded only six days after the earthquake. Six days after the earthquake. And the soup kitchen was taken over 14 days later, in the meantime these jobs were done by volunteers who were so brutally and uglyly insulted and disrespected. Not us, you, the ruling majority and your representatives. These defeating missed deadlines are the result of previous disrespect and the Constitution and the law, and this is in support of the fact that in the next crisis situations we will not have a timely reaction that this law should guarantee. So a timely and good reaction can come up with an entire system, not whether or not it will be the exact definition of the term "hazardous substance". Therefore, civil protection could not take on the coordination of what was required by law when the earthquake occurred in Bania, because the Civil Protection Staff has long been dealing with those issues and topics that should not be dealt with at all. And the delusion is that the greatest danger is a dangerous substance whose, right now, definition of repairing, abuse of power, abuse of power, is a much, much more dangerous concept. And HDZ is a dangerous substance for Croatia and for its democracy, as I am a dangerous substance for you, Mr. Boric and for the entire HDZ. It should also be pointed out that constitutional judges note that the Staff, which is very often justified by the profession, is not at all professional. Because if the waist were to control the situation, then the waist could and could pre-set the frames when and what measures would be introduced, or when the measures would cease to apply. At that time, citizens would have a certain degree of criteria, and if the alleged profession is unable to define such concepts, then it is obvious that it is not at all a matter of expertise. Apparently, the Civil Defense Department is only a common avatar behind which the government is hiding. One cover that functions in a completely unacceptable and unacceptable way. It should also be pointed out that any disease is in some way dangerous for both life and health, but not all measures are allowed and not necessary, let alone necessary to prevent it. It doesn't justify every goal, it doesn't justify every means of the goal that is actually being achieved. Restrictive measures in order to assess whether they make sense at all, must be clearly and crediblely reasoned, and it is unacceptable to worry on the one hand about the definitions of ‘dangerous substances’ and not to establish and not to say that this is exactly what was missing in the work of the Staff so far. There was no explanation, there were no criteria, and there was no argument that would make my citizens believe that the Staff knew what it was doing and what the purpose of what it was. It should also be said that a very, very dangerous situation in which this Parliament has not been given the chance to recognise all the dangers arising from this application and the implementation of the Civil Protection System Act. Therefore, with all those initiatives that have come from the opposition ranks so far, and as far as Interpol is concerned, a whole series of issues related to the Civil Protection System, it is obvious that a new model of control of the way in which The law implements, as well as a new model for civil protection. [[/Intruder Miroslav Škoro: Time. Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34189	Thank you. We have one breach of the Rules of Procedure. Honorable representative Mario Kapulac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34190	I had to ask myself what article I call on because I don't do this often. So, colleague Oreskovic hurt his Rules of Procedure because, to an insult, the personal insult she had suffered was reciprocated with another degree,... In 238, she reciprocated with one degree more insult, because you know well that when you collect something that you do on unauthorized discriminatory grounds and you can't tell a political party that it's a dangerous substance. [[attack: you can't hear...]] So it is illegal, not only in the Croatian Parliament, but in public communication at all, and I ask you not to do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34191	Thank you, time. Here's what we're gonna do. I didn't want to react, but I was apostrophe, a respected colleague of Oreshkovic, and I was also apostrophe of my pre-election campaign, so here we are before we start with individual debates, so what's important to say is that I've always advocated justice, and so I'm going to continue to advocate. In this situation where no one has followed the Rules of Procedure, because it is a metric question, you are a lawyer, I am an economist, an engineer and say many, the singer, we are here discussing the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Civil Protection System Act, not the final proposal of the Civil Protection System Act. It's a measure of things, and as far as I know, not right, but read, because I learned in first grade elementary school you're wrong. Dear Mr. Capula, this wasn't even a breach of the Rules of Procedure either, but here I am going to make an exception not to touch you. I will give my notice in accordance with Rule 232 of the Rules of Procedure, and I have had to break this whole thing down so that I can give myself a warning so that someone can still be punished. And now we can continue with individual debates. And I'm warning you again, we're discussing the Law of Amendments and Law Supplements and you're talking about what you want. I'm still right. Honorable representative of Anka Dark-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34192	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed Secretary of State with an associate. So, history is, I apologize to your associate, history is a teacher of life. What do we have? We have here that the European Commission has initiated a infringement procedure and that amendments to the Civil Protection System Act are being made to comply with the directive because we either misread it or misread it or misread it. And it's neither the first nor the last time in this House. We already had that problem under the railroad law today. I'm sure we'll have more. We've got a pilot of projects and everything. We even have in the debate a law where our own ministry is going to amend and supplement the law that was proposed to this House and does not comply with some of the other laws of the ministry. And that's the situation we have and that's what we coordinate. I'm sure the secretary of state and the ministry would like it the most if they didn't have to come with this law here, because of course they'll hear some other things in our debate they won't or won't hear, but it would be good when I said history is a life teacher let's see what Civil Protection is. It is a system, organising participants in operational forces and citizens to protect and save people, animals, material and cultural goods and the environment in major accidents and disasters and eliminate the consequences of terrorism and war destruction. The system is of public interest to every country and its security. And here we can all agree that that's the case. Historically, how did civil protection in the Republic of Croatia develop? In 1377, the city of Dubrovnik introduced a quarantine for seamen, and this was the first time that there was some kind of historical civil protection where the city was protected for the right by certain sanitary measures around the infection. In Croatia, 1880 after a catastrophic earthquake, there was a need for organised civil protection, and it was organised in 1932. In the Yugoslavia area, it was on the tradition of the Soviet Union until the earthquake in Skopje, which was in '63. In '64, too. And behind that we have a new civil protection system, and when it comes to Croatia, then it was used in the Homeland War was a big part of Civil Protection. And beyond that, it's developing, it's preparing Civil Protection, and today we have what we have. We have sure no one would like to do it again. We have a 19 covid which is actually the topic of the world of Europe and we have an earthquake that was in the city of Zagreb and the earthquake that was in Banovina. And we have civil protection when there's no such thing that works perfectly. A little meeting, a little doing, but we see reality when it's needed and when it's necessary to really do something. That is, on the one hand, we have a really disease that we're fighting in the way that it was done in 19th century isolation, and on the other hand we have two earthquakes that I'd most certainly prefer that it didn't happen and that it was an ugly dream but it was a reality. It was shown in the city of Zagreb, by the way, that there is a special office that deals in such conditions that works just as well before the earthquake. It works perfectly to get all the machinery out of Jelačić Place, it works great when it needs to be paraded. But when it comes to helping citizens, it works much less. Equally, the role of Civil Protection in Banovina's Banovina hair line has proved to be all mistakes. What am I saying? So, we're doing an amendment here and an addition to the law just because the EU gave us a pack and warned us and said here's the thing you've done wrong again, so do it right. But I'm sure the time has come to consider the role, the importance of civil protection in some new conditions, and in a new way, to think and move as every time we open that problem, then usually the secretary of state comes and says, but here we are just now, just making the law, and we're just going to have a new law that we're going to solve and there's not going to be any more problems. It would have been good if there had been a resolution minister, it would have been good if he had come and asked him some questions. But we're where we are. Thank you. [[/Intruder Škoro: Thank you. Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34193	It'd be good if we were done. Thank you. We have two replicas of honor, Mrs. Dark-Taritash. He's the first respected representative of Maria Kapulice. Here you go, Mr. Hood.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34194	Dear Representative Taritash, when you spoke, I suppose critically that we are bringing in acts that we have to correct only because someone misrepresented them or didn't understand them at all, although we understand ourselves at all, I don't think it is at all controversial because it is a common process in the application of a directive that passes by each Member State, and not just Croatia. I would remind you that what we are correcting now was brought by the government of Zoran Milanovic in which you were the minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34195	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica of the esteemed representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34196	Thank you very much. So, the Civil Protection system has been established, this law has been established since 2015, so I have to remind you that in 2018 it's been changed just as much, so in 2020 it's changed, but it's not up to us until every time we come back to what you are, and what we were, what you were, and how we were. So it's no unusual to get a pilot project. It's not unusual for you to go in line with the directives. But why so much? Why is it that some things have not been done properly, why in a way that even the translation has been wrong? I can tell you an example when we translated about the aspect of nature protection naturally. Well, no one understood what it meant to be natural. And that's what we had in the regulation. The rules aren't carved into stone. Therefore, any regulation that is not good really needs to be changed and complemented. But if we're gonna what you are, what we are, we don't have a future.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34197	Thank you. The next replica is Renata Sablar-Dračevac's esteemed representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34198	Thank you, Vice President. Dear MPs, you've made one cut, a retrospective through history how Civil Protection worked. I am now interested in this bitter experience of civil protection organization in Banja after the earthquake, what would you say is the time interval at which you would place the current civil protection? What level would she be at? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34199	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34200	Thank you very much for asking. I somehow and in my discussions always try to find some reasons. I'm trying to find something that didn't come with us. Nothing's going to end with us. I'm sure we'd all like it best if the earthquake wasn't, that we'd prefer the story with the Root is over, but it's not. So, civil protection you have to agree to function in situations that are extreme, which are different. We've got a lot of problems here. It also appeared in an earthquake in Zagreb where very lightly some things were done, and then we banged on the head later. From that experience, these experiences should, and that's why I started on purpose, after the 1880 earthquake civil protection took place. After the earthquake that was in Skopje, it started, after the Homeland War, when we saw what it meant, some kind of review went on. You're learning from mistakes! So, what's bad is not to repeat. [[Intruder Škoro: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34201	Thank you very much. Next individual debate, respected representative Marijana Puljak. Here you go, Mrs. Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34202	I thank the chairman. Therefore, the proposed amendments and additions to the Civil Protection Act will remove irregularities in the transposition of the EU directive. So today here is another law that removes irregularities in the transposition of European directives. I don't know, maybe it would help if those who translate those directives, copy maybe go to some English class or I don't know how or somehow we have a lot of these transposition irregularities and a lot of topics on the agenda because of these irregularities. Civil protection by number of stakeholders involved makes the most complex security and protection system in Croatia. In addition to 556 units of local self-government, cities and municipalities, 20 counties, so 576 headquarters of Civil Protection Civil Protection as a system make up citizens, are participants of government, MUP, bodies of state administration, other state bodies, armed forces of the Republic of Croatia and operational forces, meaning civil protection headquarters, operational fire parties, Croatian Red Cross, Croatian Mountain Rescue Services, Association of Citizens, Units, Civil Protection Commissioners, co-ordinators at the location, legal persons. Therefore, there is almost no institution or person who is not directly or indirectly part of civil protection. So each of us is somehow part of this system. And we know, let's ask ourselves if we know how to behave in the event of a crisis or disaster. So do we know exactly when there's an earthquake, a flood, a fire that we do? I come from IT, so for 25 years I've worked in IT for the last 15 years in a department that's worried that all our organization's computer systems work 24 hours, 24 hours a day for 7 days a week. So, as part of this concern, we had to ensure continuity of business and recovery from disaster, i.e. we had to do business continuity plans, disaster recovery plans, and we had to test these plans regularly. So once a year, we test the plan here to make some kind of earthquake happen that anyone needs to do where in the organization to know exactly who they call, what phones are on call, who the contact persons participate in, who they order, who, who they listen to, who they listen to, who they listen to, and so on. So the function of these continuitys of business of these disaster recovery processes is that the organisation remains operational after an unforeseen event, even natural disasters or in IT of some kind of cybers etc. So in the present environment and pandemics the continuity of business and disaster recovery have more significance than ever before. Each organisation from small companies to large multinational companies operating around the world should have such plans to reduce the effects of unwanted and unforeseen congestion and operating disorders. The same system should have, therefore, our Civil Protection system, that is, it should represent it, it should have these plans, and it should be regularly tested so that it does not happen like what happened to us in Bania, that two weeks after the earthquake, the system only then organizes the diet of the victims. So it takes him two weeks to organize. Once a year in the county assembly, civil protection systems are reported on city councils. So these are annual analyses of systems and annual development plans, and usually there is whether every county, every city and municipality adopts it even unanimously, and everything is good on paper, but we all know how to distinguish these paper reports from those on the ground, so we sent an email to the mayor of Split-Dalmatia County and the mayor to make sure that what we read on paper is as well as in practice, so that we could not take us to the civil protection warehouse to see how it was organised there and whether everything in the PSU as we read in the reports, here's just so much to say, to this day we didn't get an answer or not responsible for that request. Here, so I'm calling the mayor to answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34203	Thank you, thank you very much. Next debate individual, respected representative Ivana Posavec Krivec. I kindly ask someone who's in the red lounge just to talk a little more quietly on the phone or discuss it if it's possible or go to another salon so you do it, it bothers. Here you go, Mrs. Posavec.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34204	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. State secretaries with co-operation, proposed amendments and additions to the Civil Protection System Act will remove irregularities in the transposition of the EU Directive and further harmonisation from the area of competence of the MUP will be carried out. In this respect, the Civil Protection Act should include definitions of concepts, domino effect, hazardous substance, operator, plant area and external plan. In short, why am I saying this, so it doesn't turn out that I jumped out of the agenda topic? I will talk today about the institutional problem of the civil protection system and the domino effect. Therefore, these amendments are complemented in my opinion by a cosmetic nature, i.e. they comply with the directive in question. As we all know, we are all members of the EU and are obliged by the EU to introduce all those positive legal regulations in our legislation and that is perfectly fine. However, I would like to point out the following under the Civil Protection System Act, civil protection is a system of organising participants, operational forces and citizens to protect and save people, animals, material and cultural goods and the environment in major accidents and disasters and eliminate the consequences of terrorism and war destruction. It is also one of the public interests for the Republic of Croatia and for the security of the Republic of Croatia. So to be perfectly clear, it's about the organization system. Now you see, my opinion is that it was the government of Andrej Plenkovic in 2018 that violated this system which was of interest and for the security of the Republic of Croatia, and by abolishing the State Protection and Rescue Authority, although it was then abolished by legal acrobatics and the Croatian Fire Department as an association, but it proved very quickly that it became the central body of the state administration, it seems to me that it was the intervention of some of the highly positioned officials by ruling. The State Administration for Protection and Rescue should, in fact, remain a central civilian body that will ensure that throughout Croatia, using all resources among other things and the HGSS, as well as the fire department fits into the civil protection system, and today, unfortunately, this is no longer the case. It was a completely missed move in my opinion from 2018, and it is also contrary to the national security strategy. There is also a question of the relationship between the MUP and the State Protection and Rescue Authority, above all, that link was in the joint audit, and everything else worked so that they were able to participate as two entities in European projects and withdraw EU funds in international contracts and so on. NGOs couldn't take over the situation and couldn't apply for certain projects, and they were denied the possibility. You just have an example of that, for example. The Red Cross, according to its rules as the Croatian Red Cross, does not have the right to be in a military tent, let alone in the vicinity to be with the army. Therefore, civil protection cannot be an integral part of the MUP as its segment, since the MUP is the body to monitor civil protection matters. The abolition of the State Administration for Protection and Rescue and its annexation under the MUP was justified by savings and increased operationality, the number of agencies, etc., savings certainly did not exist, the operation of the Trut troops we unfortunately witnessed after the earthquake in Banovina, however you wish. When journalists asked questions about the petrinian military and how the citizens were evacuated, remember that morning, in front of the military in Petrinja, a newly built roof that was sneered by the statisticians, it was necessary to move more than 400 people who had found temporary accommodation there, Trut replied that there were still people in the military, that they were displaced. So, he called on the MORH, reports, etc., he didn't know what the situation was, but he was sending journalists to the MORH. So the situation at Banovina two weeks after the devastating earthquake was in, it was very bad. There people were free to move around the field, coming to help volunteers who wanted to help the destroyed area with their heart. They were not sent by civil protection but were free to wander the streets and help and to feel that they needed help where needed. They were not trained or targeted, so they helped where they were found. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34205	Thank you, you're very precise, you have one replica, a respected representative of the Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34206	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues, so you were talking about the domino effect, but you were also talking about the system. You can build systems in different ways. You can build according to your jobs, you can build according to the meaning and you can build towards the people you have. The worst option is building against the people you have. And then you have one system that was the State Department for Protection and Rescue and that is very easy to give up and you realize that you don't need it because you didn't have at that point a man who would be strong enough, but you had some other people for other places and then you get it back very soon. What I said, and I'll say every time, when it doesn't matter what you see in action, it works great. Make a little parade, give a little report, it's generally accepted, but when you need to see how the system really works or unfortunately in this case it doesn't work. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34207	Thank you very much. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34208	Yes, my dear colleague, Dark Tarritash, you have well noticed that you have actually helped me to say to the end what I was about to say. It is clear that the system did not function in the event of an earthquake in Banja civil protection system. It is fully evident from the fact that an additional, additional civil protection post for earthquakes has been established. Today, it is legally questionable whether this is even justified and whether it is in the coordination of competent services. So, this domino effect that I was talking about has essentially defined all these further consequences and related effects and has simply shown that the government unfortunately did not manage Andrej Plenkovic in some circumstances no matter how much we are hiding things here now by Covid situation and some others, the situation on the ground today is still not well, people are still not taken care of, temperatures have fallen, they are still without connections to the municipal infrastructure. There is no answer to key questions as to how they will be taken care of in due course. So the system I'm still saying It doesn't work. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34209	Thank you very much, thank you very much. Next individual debate, respected representative Rada Boric. Here you go, Mrs. Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34210	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Secretary of State with my colleague so I don't get a warning, here I will call on the amendments and additions, since we had to comply with the European directive, the directives, and then I would ask that maybe there was an opportunity to at least coordinate with ourselves, so maybe we missed that opportunity, and so was my colleague Tomašević, and here we could, for example. and remove Article 73, and since we did not set up an extra-account civil protection fund, we could enter into the law that we would do ad hoc funds as we have now after the earthquake. There is so much to the law, and there is something I would like to say about the inadequate response of the civil protection system to the pandemic, we talked more about the earthquake, but unfortunately, what was the role of civil protection in the cases of the pandemic, especially since the government managed Covid, Covid, through the civil protection headquarters, through the crisis. And unfortunately, she did not take advantage of opportunities and such weakened civil protection, and we could have warned here several times that in cases of monitoring of contact with infected persons, because our health system was really burdened with the crisis, that citizens could be used. the potentials which could be seen to be better managed by civil protection. Civil protection could therefore, in coordination with the Health Ministry's crisis headquarters, be in fact this logistical support to the health system in combating the coronary virus. And of course, and as you remember how trust in headquarters and civil protection was lost, it was because it was different, we all know whether it was contradictory statements from the ruling party and that the more the headquarters and the more he lost credibility because of the different decisions, making different decisions in the right sense, contradictory decisions. I believe that civil protection could have been used for, say, adequate information for citizens, and we have also all recognized that, and in both cases, both disasters and pandemics and earthquakes of shortages and preventive activities. We have also not prepared enough education for citizens themselves related to natural disasters. We have come to an interpretation and we have reached a conclusion and we believe that the interpretation signed by the opposition clubs will also show exactly what we are always complaining about, inconsistencies. I hope the proposals won't go away because she gave them up, gave up the opposition. We need a reform of civil protection, we do not need this to be obedient with respect to whether cosmetic adjustments related to the European Commission, so we need a full and urgent civil protection reform in which we will welcome, and no one wants to, some future disasters ready. If we had a national disaster headquarters of any type, then it certainly wouldn't have happened to us that some of the key decisions were pending, all of our colleagues were saying what the situation in Bania looked like. Banovini. So what was the situation just because it was an extremely poor coordination, and the coordination in times of crisis is known to be ruling.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34211	Thank you very much. You have one replica, respected representative Andreja Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34212	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, I am pleased that you have touched this problem that we have already discussed during that interpretation, that the government has actually not used enough members of the civil protection system to fight the coronary virus, so in this pandemic, and it could. That's exactly what you said. So tracking contacts, informing citizens, maybe nonmedical jobs in hospitals, now that we're hoping mass vaccination might help with these preparations for mass vaccination. And when I've been preparing for this, and I've been reading and some provisions and legal supplements, so this makes sense what we're saying because, say, in civil protection, you have a water rescue team, a wreck, a logistics group and a 4th group, that's what a sanitizer team is for you, so the sanitizers who could really have some kind of professional background in helping as a system of civil protection in the fight against coronarys. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34213	Thank you very much. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34214	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34215	It's all right.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34216	So, we've heard of course that vaccination will take place. cleavage occurs not only with general practitioners who are overworked anyway. Here you do not know exactly how they will do the same work at the same time or then at noon they will work for some fee if the split will work in some larger spaces, sports halls like I saw in Koprivnica, Koprivnica is doing it, then I believe that it would also help us here to have already already organised civil protection. She served there I will not say as directors but really as support and help because maybe there will also be some people who will want to get the vaccine over the line because they saw that they privileged get it across the line, so I think it's very important to at least take advantage of those potentials.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34217	Thank you very much. Next individual debate, distinguished representative Angelko Strick, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34218	Vice President HS, colleagues and colleagues. I'm putting that system on and that day is working well and I'm going to prove it on a series of examples. When we discuss a topic, I think it is necessary to determine the current situation, then set goals, compare it with trends in other countries, and then make certain decisions. The current situation when we talk about disasters and crises in our home country is certainly extremely difficult because we are affected by 3 or so crises. The first since 2015, which is still current, is the migrant crisis, since last year we have been hit as well as the whole world by an epidemic of coronaryvirus where, with the most liberal measures, we really have very good results and then two earthquakes, the first in Zagreb and the surrounding area, the second in Sisak-Moslavina County. In addition to the damage measured in tens of billions of kunas, we are talking about 10 lives lost, 7 people died in Sisak-Moslavina County, killed in the earthquake itself, after one person in the recovery of the damage, in Zagreb one person in the earthquake and after another person in the recovery of these damages. In all these crisis situations I stress the system has worked well and today works well among other things. There is no country in the world no matter how powerful, technical and technologically advanced it can be within a day of two or two weeks or we can even say within a month two to resuscitate so great, not to say the terrible consequences of these disasters and crises. I am therefore surprised that here today was the least word of praise or gratitude to firefighters, police officers, soldiers, doctors, nurses, technicians, HGS, the red cross and all those involved in the system of protection and rescue. So I give them a big thank you from here. Also today, there have been words that the law provides for penalties only for the lowest level of design. I wouldn't agree with that. If you have a legal obligation to form a civil protection system, to train units or units of civil protection, that if you have an obligation to make certain plans, for example. An assessment of the risk of major accidents, a plan of action in the field of natural disasters, a plan for the development of a civil protection system, a plan for protection and rescue, a plan for fire protection, an assessment of the threat to fire, then you are obliged as chief, the mayor to bring and equip and equip those people. It was also about volunteers. Of course, we had the opportunity to watch again one great Croatian heart as the media conveyed it, but it might be good and allow all of our citizens who are obviously, now it is visible that they are willing to help, that within some self-organization they can constantly be of service to our citizens. We have hundreds of fires in Croatia each year where families, homes and property are injured and all those citizens are also helped. So let's say it's a good idea to be part of the red cross, which is an association of citizens, to allow citizens to organize themselves and record that they're willing to help, so if you're a brick builder, I'm ready this year to help 2, 3, 4 days, tell who I'm at risk here, or not to list all the other options that would in this way, I say, through the citizens' association, and the red cross is an association of citizens, were allowed to help citizens in one more appropriate way, and not that we have who in this case have a large number of interested people who have really come in air help and after that we have One, one, one noise in communication, say. [[Intruder: Time, thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34219	Thank you, I have to stop you... A lot of replicas in the finale of our debate, so let's take the first line of the respected representative Marijana Petir. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34220	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You spoke about how important it is to recognize when someone is doing good and how important it is to express the words of gratitude. Here I am again, on behalf of all citizens of Sisak-Moslavina County, to thank all the rush services and also those basic civil protection forces that include both firefighters and the HGSS and the Red Cross for their assistance that was provided during the earthquake because they really came to the field right at the moment when the earthquake happened, there were about 2,000 representatives of these services with us, so when we needed it more. I wanted to ask you, since here you know the terrain well, and you know that Sisak-Moslavina County is located along the border, there is an important role and an important role of the MUP, especially the border police, which protects not only the Croatian border because it is the EU border, so can you also give a brief look at their activity.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34221	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34222	Thank you very much. So in the introduction, I pointed out that, as a state, we are certainly the most affected by these crises, certainly with us since a week ago, Japan has hit an earthquake, there is not one country that is fighting a parallel to three crisis situations. In 2015, the migrant crisis that is constantly present where we have a major engagement and almost a quarter or maybe even a third of our officers, an epidemic of the coronary virus, and now even a devastating earthquake, the damage is in billions. We saw that the citizens wanted to help again, that they were helping, but when something like that doesn't happen, when people get hurt, when it comes to human lives, of course that our Croatian heart wakes up, but now we're coming to this point that it needs to be coordinated, and that's why I suggested that maybe it would be a little bit better if we did. Let's say for... [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34223	Time, I'm sorry, thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Maja Grba Bujevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34224	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Uncle, I really want to thank you, as well as my colleague, for remembering all those members of civil protection because we are all civil protection if we look at it so well. So, from all the operational civil protection forces, I personally spent 7 full days on the ground and engaged in the organisation and response of the health system. You could all read what the health system is all about civil protection. Civil protection has been in the field since the beginning, so eventually they testify, and all of them, when you look at any footage from there, you'll see the mayor of one of those cities, who, in the uniform of civil protection, was making statements with his headquarters. So everything that can be heard about here, about the system's unpreparedness and everything isn't, doesn't stand as an argument, and I'm particularly bothered when it's said that nothing has been prepared. It's been quite prepared. That's what you've been working on for the past two or three years intensely. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34225	Thank you, time, reply to the replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34226	Your Honor, I'm with that sentence right now and I'm starting my own debate. The system is still working well today. And who thinks the opposite I'd like to give some parameters or comparisons to another country in the world, see where or in which part we're worse with all these threats than anyone else. And that's why one big thank you should be said to both the firemen and the mountain rescue services and the Red Cross and the nurses, the doctors, the cops, the soldiers, all those who are still on the ground today and repair the damage to all these crises and disasters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34227	Thank you. Next replica, respected representative Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34228	Thank you very much. You were talking about how this, civil protection, and how the opposition is always asking them to leave and that he doesn't do right by them and that these people need to be replaced because they haven't done everything right or wrong. I'm going to remember one of the other headquarters from 2015 that you also said something about when we had a migrant crisis, the entrances of 10 and 100 thousand people on the eastern border did not, then there was the same headquarters founded by the government under the same rule and law, and then let's say Mrs. Dark didn't mind simply because they were the authorities then and they were fighting for power again and what happened. They even managed to release a train full of migrants at one point. make him cross the Hungarian border and stop when they get there, if you don't remember. And they said that it all worked great that it was important to transfer people from point A to point B and ask no one anything, their rights, their constitution, or any Anything else, it was all right, but remember, they were fine too. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34229	Answer, reply to the line, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34230	You emphasized everything exactly, but then there was a slightly different situation at the time that Germany was willing to accept all these migrants and then the goal was to simply cross our territory as soon as possible. Now it's quite different, and now they literally need to be stopped at the border and if there weren't four EU parliamentarians from Italy a week ago, two simply wouldn't have heard it, in public space it wouldn't have been known that this crisis with migrants is present today. And since, for example, one really bad operation wanted to be carried out by EU deputies from Italy, I am surprised that they believe it is possible to enter Croatia past the border crossing, and not in Italy. I mean really interesting attitudes and thinking.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34231	Thank you very much. Next replica respected representative Ivana Posavec Krivec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34232	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. You told your colleague that you would reassure us in your discussion and that you would show on a series of examples how the system works. Unfortunately, I listened to you very carefully, and I didn't catch all these examples very well, but I can also refer here on the basis of the personal experience that many of us have had here, and I believe you have had in the field of Bania. I came across people who said to me, "Thank you, I don't need any more help yesterday, it was that and that parliamentary representative and he helped me. I'm not gonna say his name right now, but he's sitting near you. Also, one of the chiefs told me the system wasn't working, but if there wasn't a colleague from the 6th constituency sitting in front of you, we wouldn't know what to do. So I continue to argue that in the area of Bania the system did not work but that it was all based on the personal engagements of certain people who allowed people to survive those first days.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34233	Time, thank you. Replication response. Here you go, Mr. Uncle.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34234	I wouldn't agree with you simply, in five minutes it's impossible to give all the examples, so among other things you had a chance to track down last year large fires in the United States of California, see for yourself what a shame it was, how many unhappy lives. Now, when we look at the world's powers, technically, technologically, the most advanced, if we look at only the number of planes, all the other equipment they have, and how hard they've been dealing with it, is really hard, and given the number of our challenges and troubles, I think the system is working well and it's today at the height of the assignments. And therefore once again, I thank everyone involved in this system of protection and rescue.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34235	The next replica is Renata Sabelak Dračevac's esteemed representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34236	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honor. You started a debate with the system working well, then to list the services that are well-organized, which are organized and which paid services that we in the Republic of Croatia have and do really well and you ended up saying that there was anarchy from volunteers. Was the system not well-organized civil protection system supposed to coordinate these well-intentioned people who came to help citizens? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34237	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34238	I have listed only all the services and institutions involved in the protection and rescue, which are on the ground today, thanked them and stressed that from this particular example we should now see how this great Croatian heart, how the media is going to use it in the future to make the most of it with a minimum number of people, with as little financial burden as possible, I talked about it. And if you were to talk about who helped, then if one of them was 200 kuna I donated over 100 last year, and it wasn't written about it, and I wasn't even making any statements and painting myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34239	Thank you. You took a rhetorical break, so I thought you were done. I apologize for interrupting. The next and last replica of the esteemed representative, Damir Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34240	Thank you very much. Dear colleague. Here on the left hand side again we hear that the system isn't working, so it's hard to actually explain that on the same day that the biggest earthquake was recorded, so on December 29, 2000 people were on the ground the same day from the firemen, from the HGSS, from the Red Cross. Over 100 people were pulled out of ruins, so people's lives were saved, partial evacuation of the Sisak hospital was carried out, total evacuation of the petrin hospital, evacuation of the petrin nursing home, evacuation of the home in Glina, so it all indicates that the system is obviously not working or that something is wrong, as your colleague on your left says. On the other hand, another thing that was mentioned here, and you cited it in your debate, and as regards broken provisions in the law itself and some inequality when it is said that the authorities of the executive government are being punished at the level of the units of local self-government, and already in the law you have infringement provisions that speak of the punishment of natural persons, so a natural person, regardless of whether he is a representative of the national headquarters, government, one of us parliamentary representatives or some third party, so we already have that in the law.../The speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34241	Replication response. Here you go, Mr. Uncle.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34242	Dear fellow Habiban. So it's impossible in just five minutes to specify everything done, how good it is, how much damage, how many people took part in the rescue, how many lives were saved, compare it with similar disasters in the world, and simply list it all taxively. So, among other things, in the mandate of the last government after 15 years, a National Security Strategy was adopted, 15 years no one touched it. The Law on a system of Homeland Security, a new Law on Firefighting, Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Police, on the Service of Armed Forces, or a series of legal provisions which had all the aim of improving the existing system, to enable better, better quality work for people in that system, to provide means for their training, equipment, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34243	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. I am obliged to inform you that we still have eight individual debates on this agenda point, two debates, or closing words on behalf of the MPs' club, we will see if they will have something and the promoter so that you can plan. After that, we have two more points. Now comes the individual debate of the respected representative of Mira Bulja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34244	Thank you very much. Here we are talking about dangerous substances, even here, and Boric compared certain agents with dangerous substances so that after this unserious debate, I would move on to civil protection, which should be both horizontally and vertically trained, em functionally, em, in accordance with the law mentioned here by my colleague, Strick of Homeland Security, who is a dead letter on paper in reality and that is the problem. The problem is that civil protection should be from kindergarten to nursing home, any kind of threat. The fire can be extinguished with a glass of water, if you don't shut it down in time it won't be extinguished by a number of canaders and that's the problem in the Republic of Croatia that we have too many of those who come in rank there, only has insurance after five days in Banovina and holds a press conference until at that time if there were no fans, that there were no citizens, that there weren't people there wouldn't be water, bread bark, bread crusts. I'm a witness because that morning after the earthquake I came from Sinj with several food trucks. Our civil protection system must have a full-day meal for 4 million people for at least 7 days, which are canned, CSO all-day meal. Do you have anything to do with that? Did you have that? Who's dealing? So all the components I respect, mainly the HV where the reserve is within the home security system or within civil protection. Well, if it wasn't for the good people in this place, believe me, people would be literally hungry. The cheerleading groups and volunteers with their heart to collect assistance throughout Croatia and outside Croatia have ensured that some people live on these difficult moments that happened in Banovina and so on in all threats. Respecting the fact that we have too many when the crown is a crisis, remember when the crown crisis began that every local headquarters all in uniform stands, in uniform, the rank of them, the code of the wadding virus, the code is 100 kilos in it, in the end you caught it before the parliamentary elections to boast yes, Boric caught it, he ran for them and 111 kilos, it's a little harder than him and it beat the virus. It's a much more serious thing, the system is a much more serious thing. Well, my people, we don't have an HV reserve. Here's where your choir seat is in the event of a threat. Can you... Honorable secretary of state people here where their choir table is at any risk? [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] You have destroyed everything that can be destroyed and created in the Homeland War, by the National Guard Assembly, the police, the M.O.P., and everything that was tribal to function on the foundations when it was built, and it was built in blood. That we reacted this way in the Homeland War, after 10 days to show up kitchen to people in Banovina, so imagine what you were, and then the young government, the new government of the new country at very difficult times in the Homeland War. So who can say after all this that you don't need to reserve for example? in HV, that there is no need for civil protection within the MUP or how will it already be done under the authority of who says it should not be better trained, equipped and played, all components, from firefighters to, to the civil sector, kindergartens, hospitals, schools, who says? We're just bringing free strategies, papers, compliance regulations with certain substances, which is necessary of course, but we don't have a system of security and civil protection except a few before the elections that had uniforms, my mayor is a stop in uniform until he was the largest number in the county. These are the sick. [[Intruder: Time]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34245	Thank you. We have two replicas, respected representative Marija Selak Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34246	Comrade Bull, what is a civilian in that civil protection besides her name? If we look, you've been on the ground alone since the first day of the earthquake affected areas, then we see that whoever was first and who was best reacted was, of course, our army and self-organised citizens of volunteers, and civil protection appears as pure as some syntagma that is later taken over by non-civil regular forces. So, what's the connection between civil protection and the citizens she's supposed to make nominally based on JLS's intelligence?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34247	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34248	So in the last part of your sentence you said everything, local self-government, local committees, wheels, settlements, must have civil protection on all matters, meaning from security and exercise, that you know who orders, when, who, where, where burns, where the earthquakes, which has arisen, and we don't, let's be realistic except for those who have rank and come there and attack fans. Trut came to the fans, jeweled his rank, 100 cameras and fans he attacked instead of giving all the praise to those young boys who were like young boys in '91. You rushed there to help our people give your heart, your lives threatened, that's what we have, what you've destroyed, what doesn't exist, except for the adornment of your here under these lights. There is nothing else, rank if you have and when you catch the virus before the choice to say "we caught it" in uniforms here they are.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34249	Thank you very much. The next replica of the esteemed representative of Anka Dark-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34250	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Comrade Bulj, you spoke about the system in your discussion. I have to admit that I often feel who in that joke when a husband asks a woman "do you believe more in my words or your eyes", so whether to believe in the eyes and what was seen or believe in the words that everything was great, but in fact in the field it was seen that the citizens organized themselves, that there was a great Croatian heart, and that the system of civil protection under quotes was as it came later and in reality we saw things that didn't work. And it's expected that we're going into a new law and that everything we've seen that doesn't work is ironed in law, but it's much more important to iron it out in nature because otherwise we're going to have a situation once again we've already defeated the coronaryvirus and I'm sure that in late April and early May we'll re-publish the victory over the coronaryvirus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34251	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34252	Well, I'd also sign that the virus will be recovered, and now it's close, I guess they've squeezed it, so they'll catch it and announce they've won again. But in this part, I agree with you that basically the application of all the laws is visible that civil protection didn't work. So we have to take measures from kindergarten to nursing home, to the village, to every local board, wheel, city, and organize it in a way that we should, train, train, equip people, know who, what, where the threat, who's in charge, I think we have some kind of horizontal line and vertical. More of these lines appeared here and I didn't find it strange that Tomislav Medveda Plenkovic had put it there. Why? Because Tomislav Medved is good, it is a soldier, but if it goes wrong, it will not be answered by Andrej Plenkovic, who is responsible but will be guilty of Tomislav Bear, although I think it is a good decision to be Tomislav Medved. And those ten days, no one was there. Nothing would work. that it wasn't our citizens, fans and others. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34253	Thank you. Time. Here's because we've cornered the virus for the next individual debate by the respected representative Mariana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34254	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, a representative and a representative. The Civil Protection System Act transposes the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 2012 into the legal order of the Republic of Croatia. about the control of the threat of major accidents involving dangerous substances. A clearer discussion of the obligation to provide revised and harmonised information to all persons who may be affected by a major accident is given to the competent authority for the provision of such information and the obligation to inform the other State of the reasoned decision that there is no cross-border danger of a major accident and of the obligation to draw up an external plan. As I come from Sisak-Moslavina County, which is mainly here through this debate, but also all others are connected to a devastating earthquake in another plan, the fact that the industry is operating in our area, and above all, I think of "Petrokemia" which also uses dangerous substances in its production, and in our vicinity is the underground storage of the gas "Circumstance" which means that these two plants should be very focused when we talk about changes to this law. About the importance of a system of civil protection that was objectively underrated, I believe we no longer need to talk today. The main forces of this system are the Croatian Fire Community, the HGSS and the Croatian Red Cross and it is a system to be treated with more respect. I believe that everyone knows that every citizen of the Republic of Croatia is the cornerstone of our civil protection laws and is obliged from that title to provide assistance and to notify the emergency services of the accident. So when we help other than our moral and human obligation, it is also our legal obligation and we should not boast from this pay phone how much we have helped because it is our duty. When this accident occurs mainly on the ground, firemen first come out and they want to do so during this debate in particular thanks for every fire they have put out, for every life they have saved and for every aid they have provided in saving people and property, and they do so with equal commitment and when it comes to a small accident and when there is a major accident or disaster, almost 150,000 of them in the Republic who are mostly volunteers, which means that they volunteer, that they work for free, should be and be equipped in a satisfactory way so that they can adequately respond to the needs on the ground. Today they have a fleet of 15-26-year-olds with a lack of basic fire equipment needed for interventions and this is a problem I have been warning about for a long time. I am pleased that there is a shift here and that over the last two years we have recorded a stronger use of European funds for this purpose, so 200m euros for the purchase of 94 fire trucks have been provided through European funds. With the equipment of our firefighters, I would like to point out in particular that the rural environments must not be neglected because voluntary fire companies from rural areas have equally participated in all activities to mitigate the consequences of the natural disasters and disasters that have hit us. And very often they do free and voluntary work which unfortunately many politicians and salon people neither see nor care. I would also like to stress that the position of EU member states gives us broad opportunities and Croatia is using this in a good way because through the Union Civil Protection Mechanism, thanks to the efforts we have made in negotiations with the European Commission has been recognised as potential... for the Southern Mediterranean in which two candidians would be stationed, which would be used at European level to put out fires in this part of Europe. The Union Civil Protection Mechanism funds will be used to obtain these two canadians who will be spare or additional capacity to put out fires at European level when our national capacities will not be enough or when assistance will be needed from other EU Member States, but also from our closer and wider neighbourhood, because we know that we have also helped Israel. Everything I said suggests that the civil protection system is important and that at all times it must be ready to respond to all the challenges ahead of us, which means that people They need to be trained and they need equipment. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34255	Thank you. You have one replica, a respected representative of Rade Simičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34256	I thank the vice president of HS. Dear MPs. At the beginning of your presentation, you said that this is a alignment with the European acquis and I thought that the debate would go in this direction, but here it has turned into a report on the work of civil protection and speaking of the elemental disaster that was on Banovina I can really commend all the people who were there from civil protection, from the red cross, from the firefighters, from the mountain rescue service, but all of this is done by the people, volunteers who are willing to come and jump in and help people in distress, and our fans regardless of which groups. And I don't think I know if you're sharing that opinion, that we're doing a great job, clearly in any way it can be better, but in this situation, That we reacted well [[Intruder: Time.]] And that we just have to keep going and raise people in that direction. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34257	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Mariana Petir, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34258	Thank you very much. In fact, during this debate, it is difficult to stay on the directive only because it is a topic that has been gathering us for not only a year but also a longer period because of everything that is happening in Croatia. And I think it is very important to mention once again that by the basis of the law every citizen of the Republic of Croatia is a member of civil protection, so it can't be said that the system was scheduled when we know that at the same time there were more than 2,000 official persons belonging to the basic civil protection forces, and there are both firefighters and the HGSS and the Red Cross, but also those who support it, and this is both the MORH and the MUP and the Emergency Medical Service and they were citizens, and this is also a duty under the law and it is our moral and human duty.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34259	You have another replica, Honorable Representative Miro Bulj. Here you go, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34260	Thank you very much. My colleagues, Petir, you mentioned before your debate, it seems to me to me through a replica, a migrant crisis, i.e. Croatia defends the EU's borders, but it is also the fact that Croatia is weakened by its neighbours, it is fenced. And the migrants can no longer go to Germany as they wish, because now the door is closed. This assembly here was not discussing the Marrakek compact, but a decision has been made in the centres of power, while the Bundestag has been discussed. So it's past closed-door time. How do you feel that our civil protection, our police here will control the 1,000km border, are you in favour of respecting the border law and involving the Croatian Army in helping our law enables our police to protect against illegal migrants entering Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34261	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34262	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow MPs, I think that the Croatian police are doing a great job, that they are really at the level of the task protecting the Croatian border and that they should get all the maximum support and we here in the Croatian Parliament as well as all citizens. This has proved on several occasions because we often do not see it as I have said these invisible jobs done by the Croatian police to ensure our safety, done by Croatian firefighters on a daily basis, and in this sense, we should inform ourselves a little better about what services that are prescribed under different laws and powers are entrusted to them in what way they really do this sacrificially and consciously, and I believe that, in that sense, you too can be satisfied with the activities of the Croatian police who are truly in the right way protecting the Croatian border and our security.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34263	Thank you very much, dear fellow Petyr, you have no further replicas. We've got the next individual debate, I'm sorry for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, which is at the last moment I haven't seen. Here you are, dear fellow Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34264	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague Marijana Petir injured the article of Rules of Procedure 238, because she did not, she spoke a series of lies about the case of the Croatian police and cannot explain it to anyone who was in the Croatian police and who was a Croatian police officer. The Croatian border is at risk. I asked you, and you can't answer. Should the Croatian army come to the border because it was left by all neighbours and your ally of the Germans? To mercy and mercy. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34265	Thank you, thank you, you've overstepped your time and this wasn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure, but that would be your third warning, so here I think it would be a great shame for us to have to take you away from the session, please don't do that anymore. Dear fellow Petyr, come on now, you have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34266	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Bulj hurt Article 238, because he was false about what I was saying, and he is false because he does not listen, he is busy with himself. I made it clear that I believe that the Croatian police are doing their job properly, that they are at the level of the task, to safeguard our security. And I don't know why my colleague Bulju isn't clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34267	Thank you very much. We have discussed as I have already said I will give you colleagues Selak Rasudiæ a word, on the presidency of the fact that there is no more mechanism for reacting to situations like this that can only be done by hurting the Rules of Procedure. Unfortunately, every time you answer and call for Rule 238, you are in violation of the Rules of Procedure again because we have a mechanism for correcting each other so that you have hurt the Rules of Procedure, but here we will hear what has to say to colleague Selak Rasdic, who also reported for the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34268	Article 238, the distinguished representative Petir demeans the representative of Bulj, saying that he does not listen and that he is busy with himself, and it is well known that the distinguished representative Bulj is the most active in the whole assembly because he is obsessed with problems concerning all Croatian citizens and the least with himself.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34269	It is that, I thank you, I cannot agree with you that anyone, however, has been disrespected. Since you have the number of warnings you have, I won't warn you again, but please don't abuse this breach of the Rules of Procedure again, because I'm going to have to end up giving someone a warning, and what kind of man I would rather give to myself than to you. Please don't do this anymore. Mrs. Mariana Petir has another breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34270	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, given that you've said everything you needed me to withdraw this breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34271	Thank you very much. Thank you for understanding. Here we have overcome this mini crisis, we are moving on with individual debates, respected representative Josip Boric, I apologize for waiting a little while, but here is an insult to the Rules of Procedure everywhere.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34272	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State with an associate, a colleague and a colleague. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Civil Protection System Act is another law we want. We want to comply in an urgent procedure with EU directives because we have already done so today with the previous law, he has had one article, a discussion of four hours, so there are several articles, but this debate obviously takes place means that it may not matter what is written in the law we always have colleagues who want to discuss, and it is certainly desirable, although it is often objecting that the form is wrong, so we are also discussing this law whose task is to bring it into line. Add certain definitions that have been missed before the definition of ‘domino effect’, ‘dangerous substances’, which have caused a lot of debate, then ‘operate’, ‘external plan’, etc. The adoption of this external plan here is of interest to me perhaps why only 14 counties or whether the City of Zagreb is there because of these dangerous facilities, since we have several units of local, regional self-government, means the way of informing neighbouring countries if there is a certain dangerous event i.e. A disaster in the sense of something happening with these dangerous substances? I think here's what's fundamental in this law, I think there's no one against it that should be adopted more or less unanimously. And then the debate went a little bit further, and it went really wide in terms of what the civilian headquarters was doing, and we came to the "gauda fortune" that I understood, but also to the fact that the headquarters that's been there for a year is no good, it's no good, it needs to be replaced in all order, and of course those who are responsible, who know everything and can because they don't know anything, and those at the local level don't know anything, and we're all not really connected, we don't know what to do, and simply that system doesn't work. And then there was the final debate of fellow Bulja who concluded that this system was in no way working and that the thing was saved, as I wrote, volunteers, fans and he the second day with a truck and a van of food from Sinj. And of course after that, when all those creditors pulled out a system that doesn't work obviously still does their job, and those who were there the first days of course did the biggest job. And of course it was always from us and understanding and thanking all these people who really made an effort to help at a difficult moment of earthquake from all sides. I've heard from my friends butts in these, as long as we've been here for 30 days, every day that he brought that truck and I know the van on the 30th was already there. So I believe that many of us helped and didn't fly for having to take a picture, have to make selfies or publish it to everyone, so I don't know what it is, the system is, of course, functional, civil protection has its own rules, it has its own laws, and it works like that today. I had a task as head of local self-government to establish my civil protection headquarters at the level of local self-government, we know exactly who it should be, it may not be up to 12 members, so you can find those 12 in the middle, but it must certainly be those who are daily exposed as firefighters, the police representative, the health system must have their representatives, someone must be of regional self-government to know that it has its own seriousness, to know the meaning of the deputy who was otherwise a member of that or the head of that headquarters had to have what it says and in the Regulation the power to make decisions since he is above it, means that he has the authority to make decisions that are being heard and these headquarters have done their job. We've had more threats over the past few years than floods, big fires in Dalmatia, and unfortunately we've had earthquakes and this pandemic that pulled this civil protection system out of someone, let's say, the gray one that he lived in. It was not a simple system that could have been constantly in activity because we really had to solve what we had to do or through firefighters when the fires or through this other service when they were floods, but earthquakes and pandemics, in particular the pandemic system of civil protection raised very high. We had a civil protection headquarters and in 2015 the state led by Ranko Ostojić, a migrant crisis and never did HDZ say a word to that headquarters, no matter what they did because they thought they were doing what they did. At that time, they worked. [[Intruder: Time]] As they could have known. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34273	Thank you very much. Time's up. We've got one breach from the Rules of Procedure, the esteemed representative of Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34274	Dear Vice-President HS, I would like to ask you to remind your colleague, Boric, as a national representative, insults all the people who helped in Banovina, the fans, claims that they were not necessary at all, so that without them it would all work and that they were really just disturbing, repeating statements that we could already hear from key staff people. I'd like to ask you to respond to Mr. Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34275	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Grmoy, you and I both know that you've made a mistake, you haven't even called for an article of the Rules of Procedure. ... I didn't hear, I apologize. [[You can't hear a bogey from a bench.]] But since you don't have any warning here, I'm using the opportunity to give you one warning. So who is it now? [[/Intruder: It's okay.]] Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34276	Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34277	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, so do you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34278	Well, because my colleague Grmoya always does what he just did, so he takes something out of context that he needs to be a light motif for some of his videos to make fun of the MPs. I said here, but he skips it, that we thanked all the volunteers and as a government, the prime minister repeatedly and each of us as a politician for everything they've done for those people together, I say, we all helped, along with all of us, but they can't run away from it because they can't deal with anything else but with the detail that answers him, but they won't pass.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34279	Thank you very much. You've exactly got 30 seconds in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. So, Mr. Boric, you didn't even call for a business article that you wanted to point to injure. Okay, that's retroactive now. [[/Intruder Boric: 238.]] You have one warning and I'm giving you another You're welcome. [[Intruder Boric: Excellent.]] Replica, distinguished representative Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34280	I'm a colleague of Boric's. Your gratitude can only be measured by your self-disclosure on the ground which was most visible in the fact that, in all the humanitarian aid packages, you glued HDZ labels out of the plane to see where that aid came from. But I'm going to ask you something else, otherwise I think you should get a warning because I got a warning when I wasn't just talking about the amendments and the additions to the law, but you as someone who's been given the right to sum up obviously dare what's not appropriate to cattle because you're in Jupiter's place. So, I'd like to ask you what's so funny about the Civil Protection Station supplying a cheese that costs 80 kuna per kilogram, while the same cheese in the more expensive retail gets 55 kuna per kilogram? Do you think it's as funny to our citizens who don't even have everyone for that cheese as it is to you from these constituencies?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34281	Thank you very much. Replication response. Otherwise, I gave Mr. Fight a warning, to you for information. [[Intruder: Deserved.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34282	Thank you very much. My colleague Rasudiæ I know that this is not the fifth day... empty commentation on the subject is all about everything, I do not deal with these details, and probably my colleague Grumoja visited Banovina and probably found this detail, it is important to you and you will simply develop this story, it is your job and you are dealing with it. But that should not have been the main motive of today's debate when we talked about the civil protection system i.e. about this part that we had to coordinate, and that's exactly what you wanted. As some here wanted to discuss here only the work of the Civil Protection Staff. We stood up to it in our own way. Surely you and your colleague Grumo are going to be, otherwise he's a great investigator and his investigations always end up more or less forgotten, a lot of them already he's had no, so we'll certainly deal with it for the next few days, and maybe months until the election because that's what the Bridge does. For you, the jump, the police, the NUSKOK, and all those DORH extra bodies that don't need to deal with anything, we have Nikola, solve everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34283	Thank you very much. Although I'm a supporter of this kind of debate, we're not quite right, we're not simply able to have it. But please, let's not put this on a personal level, let's try to get back to the scale of things that will now make the respected representative of Nikola Grmoy in his replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34284	Thank you, Vice President. So it's quite clear what you said in your presentation. I didn't get you anything out of context, you said that the system worked without all those people that weren't needed, that it worked from day one, and those who were on the ground were aware that it wasn't. And these are the facts, these are the facts, Mr. Boric. And as far as the investigation is concerned, I've never been involved in investigations, but I've been revealing your corruption and thank God for everything I've talked about later has proved to be correct. Thank God in terms of my credibility, not very good for our country. It would be better if what I was saying wasn't true, unfortunately it is. A lot of your ministers have gone, and that's right after our debates here and the arguments we've made in the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34285	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34286	My colleague Grumo and you and I both know that your investigations have never been anything, that you know very well, but it's politically good for you, by the way, because you're trying to profile yourself here as one honest representative who can call everyone by name and last name, insult or call them for crime, thieving, etc. And you do it, and you do it, and you go through with it, and I have nothing to do with it. But you're not going to impute something to me that I didn't tell you because that's where you try to do it every time and not just for me, but for every one of our colleagues, you think you're successful. I didn't say or stand behind that those people who were there were important volunteers, they were important, but I also wanted to say that today the civil protection system as well as then the first, second day, the third day of the army, by the firefighters and all the other services as part of that system and today they function there and with these people. And you can say whatever you want.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34287	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Dalia Oreskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34288	Thank you, Chairman. Representative Boris, it is widely known that HDZ representatives like to be represented in public as a state-run party. From your presentation, I was particularly distracted by the fact that you see the role of HS and then the role of opposition in it in a very obscenity way. Of course, today we had to discuss the other provisions of the law and the complete system of civil protection and the role of headquarters for several reasons. First of all, you yourself mentioned that we have been in a crisis for a year at the root headquarters, and it is from this fact that we have not designed the civil protection system properly because the headquarters must be formed before some problem and threat arises, and also when you mention who took part in the assistance of Bania shows that the system that would protect the safety of our citizens has not been put in place properly.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34289	Thank you very much. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34290	My colleague Oreshković, I only know that we have formed the headquarters at local level already in 2017. Is this a legal obligation, it was not possible to form a headquarters, and that the leading staff people did not undergo training for at least two to three days in cooperation with the State Civil Protection Service, i.e. Civil protection system, HGSS, etc. It was a condition. You have to get a certificate, every chief, the deputy chief has to have it in order to run that headquarters. And when it had both local and regional levels, then it probably had a state level and it must have been formed in time and it was in accordance with the law and with those provisions that prescribe who should be in that headquarters from every part of this system of health, police, military, etc. to civil protection, HGSS, etc. Not to count further, so it's all in accordance with the law. Several times you tried to bring him down at the Constitutional Court with various demands, here and recently all three decisions declared in accordance with the Constitution. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34291	Thank you, fellow Boric. The next replica is the respected representative of Rade Simičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34292	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear MPs, you've been in the assembly for a long time and you're doing a good and responsible job. My question to you is, is it acceptable for you to have an earthquake in Banovina at such a difficult time when unfortunately we had human lives to politicize everything? We're about civil protection to have, opposition impelation so to discuss here half a day whether they're doing their job or not, but at the moment that within 20 hours all civil protection services were in Banovina in an earthquake affected by the area of making, making politics and saying what they didn't actually say. I once again commend all the people, all the people who were there who wanted to help and who participated regardless of who it was. But it's civil protection, and it's the headquarters that should've made order in space, nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34293	Thank you, thank you very much. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34294	Thank you, dear colleague Simičević, we who are part of this system because there is a vertical about which colleague Bulj speaks but he does not recognize it because he thinks he is out of that system and that it should work that way. We know we have rules and manners. And when the passes were introduced, we knew who was supposed to do what at that time of the third and fourth months, and that's what civil protection headquarters were doing. When it went to the other side, it means these headquarters, say, are now less activated than in the time of the first wave of the epidemic. Today, they still have their tasks, and it is an obligation for each local self-government to take care of their financing and mode of operation. A number of plans we talked about here, a fire protection plan, an assessment plan, a major disaster protection plan and this external plan they're now introducing in the counties, so I'm asking 14 etc., are proof that this system is really trying to plan, but it's not good that it's planned that we really don't impose too much obligations that become just formal, and then we don't have any. And then we've got a problem with the implementation. [[Intruder: Thank you, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34295	Thank you very much. Only the truths of the public are doing, as far as I know, an initiative to interpret this subject has been launched, the subject is what it is, and it's important, so there's a little more reporting. Unfortunately, that's how it is. Next replica, the esteemed representative Mariana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34296	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You spoke to my colleague Boric about how much the assistance that came to the people of Banovina and from the civil protection services and from the citizens was important and I have already thanked him several times, and I will say it once more, but I also have a duty as a representative of the area to pass on except thanks and another message. Here at the pay phone, these same people are constantly boasting of their good deeds as if they do not know that they should give their charity in secret. In this way, praise for the speaker is humbled by those who have already gone through enough humiliation and experienced horrors. And these Banovina people tell them that if they keep doing that, they'll pack up that truck they sent to help them and bring it back. So she would beg to hold on to the dignity of this debate and in general when speaking from this pay phone about people who have been killed to take care of their dignity because these discussions have gone beyond all measures and shed a glass and I think it's really been enough with that boasting now.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34297	Thank you. Replica response, respected representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34298	Thank you very much. My colleagues Petyr, I think there are also those non-speakers who have done what they should have done both at their functions and as people towards, meaning man to man and I think that what is done by some here really isn't appropriate, but let them continue. All this has an obvious price, and if it saves the situation, let them live in that. There were stories and other parties not only of those that are constantly mentioned as MOST. We also have a story about 1,000 volunteers and 50,000 hours that were done there, that was added up in the clock exactly means etc., etc. As the biggest party in Croatia, we didn't clearly talk too much about what we did, and that's where we care. But this way that it would lift itself up, and the others would humiliate it in such a way as to discuss it in the assembly is below each level, but I say let the gentlemen continue everything has its beginning and end, we'll see where it ends.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34299	Thank you very much. Next replica, respected representative Daniel Spajic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34300	Dear colleague Boris is not true that the system worked well on Banovina, if you had gone there then you would know that I am telling the truth, not you. So the only thing that worked was your mayor Žinić and his mayor who functioned very well and live maltene gratis at the expense of that poor woman. Petrinja, Sisak seemed to have ended the war before the earthquake. So sit in the car, go for a ride there, and then say the system worked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34301	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34302	So I don't know how to answer this, let's say a replica that touches people who run certain institutions, counties, cities again. I don't know if Sisak seems to you that way, given that you're pretty close to the SDP, maybe there's a better thing than somewhere else, etc., but those are stories that might be similar to this debate, but that has nothing to do with what we need to talk about today. And if the system doesn't work then I'm asking, you here mostly from the opposition named the culprits, if there are the culprits then on the other hand there are those who are responsible and now I'm asking who are responsible. Whoever's standing in that space today is still trying to do it. help anyone who needs help to take care of these people properly, to have daily what they should have, etc., if the system is not working, etc. Is today really all about individuals and citizens again, that's the question. Because I say if they're all guilty then some of them are responsible, if you're responsible, then you have to prove to me what, I don't see it except stories, you understand. Or every one of you for yourself, but I don't see it. I'm sorry. [[Intruder: Thank you very much, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34303	Thank you, thank you very much. You can continue the conversation outside the assembly, thank you very much. The next individual debate is the respected representative Goran Ivanovic. Only one notice of Mrs. Mrak Taritash, the esteemed Mrs. Selak Rasudić and the esteemed representative Marijana Petri have used their three replicas in this agenda point, so I'm just warning you that you can't contact me anymore. Mr. Ivanovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34304	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State doesn't have him inside with an associate, I support those who want to talk about the civil protection system and I particularly appreciate it, it may be a system that we very much need in Croatia and sometimes we see that if we don't talk about it enough and we don't prepare enough for it not to work. But I don't agree with those who want to cloud civil protection as a system that doesn't work at all in the Republic, it's not true, it's absolutely not true. What's civil protection anyway? Civil protection is a system that works, I would say, in most European countries and should be absolutely prepared for it. Regional self-government or regional and regional self-government is essentially in charge of what is called a civil protection plan for a micro-area, and in this part are of course county. Natural disasters have been happening and they will happen in the future and the better we prepare for them, the better we will know how to respond to the challenges that time brings with it and that is certainly something important. These changes to the laws that we are discussing here are very, very, very important. It was also seen at an earthquake in Sisak-Moslavina County where local headquarters, we are talking about JLS, were not adequately prepared to meet the challenge at which they found themselves even though it was an obligation. Josip Boris spoke well here, the headquarters were formed in 2017, so after the local elections we had what is called the Civil Protection System and the chiefs of headquarters were appointed by JLS or municipalities and cities and were appointed mayors of the county headquarters. We've done this procedure and we've done it, and now we've got a problem. Some JLS, small municipalities and small towns see no potential in civil protection systems at all, this is something that essentially creates additional demands for them for time, time-consuming and simply does not adequately prepare for what is happening. External plans, so from these plans, we can't establish a system of civil protection. If we don't know what we have in our micro-area from objects that are a potential danger in any form, we can't adequately respond to the challenges of time or what happens when any disaster happens. It's something we're changing with these changes where they have to be brought. External plans are very important, it's not just natural disasters that will happen whether it's floods, earthquakes or something else. We have a lot of chemical and other plants in the Republic of Croatia that must also be protected, and for them we must have plans that we will have and how we will approach when such incidents occur and happen. What is most important to me, which is the exercise of not only civil protection but also of all the structures that manage crisis situations. There was talk here about it and an observation about why we didn't immediately establish a national headquarters, so that's impossible. This cannot be established until disaster occurs, until then we have regional headquarters that manage the situation in their area. When a disaster occurs as it was in Zagreb and in Banovina, i.e. the covid crisis, then the national headquarters is formed. Therefore, civil protection is a very important segment of the Croatian Society of Protection of People living in the Republic of Croatia, it must be spoken of, it must be invested without equipment, without people, without a system of command there is no effective way of civil protection system. Therefore, I agree that there may be less to talk about and more to do. Therefore, although this debate often goes a little bit wider than this amendment and the amendment of the law itself again opens the picture and we might put a little bit under the reflectors of these people who are here today and in Banovina and in all crisis places in the Republic of Croatia. And they're doing their job with honor. [[Intruder: Time]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34305	Thank you very much. You have more replicas, the first is the respected representative Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34306	I thank the president. I must warn you, counselor, that you do not present a thesis that does not really stand. Neither I personally nor my colleagues in the opposition have ever attacked people who work in the civil protection system. What we did, which is our mission in the democratic system, we pointed to the fact that the government abuses the civil protection system and manages it in an illegal and anti-constitutional way. For this government and HDZ's parliamentary majority of the Civil Protection System Act is a dead letter on paper because in the whole series of provisions, the whole system has been acting completely past and beyond what the law says since 2015. We didn't set up a civil protection fund, until the way the headquarters were formed. It's not true your claim that he couldn't form a national headquarters before the disaster occurred. It doesn't say that anywhere in the law, it says the opposite. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34307	Thank you, time. Reply to the replica, respected representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34308	Thank you very much, dear colleague Oreshkovic, I did not explicitly say what you were talking about. But let's not, let's not say something you just can't... We can't form a national headquarters before disaster occurs, before disaster is declared. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The MUP is the one who runs the whole story that has the infrastructure, has its own regional civil protection centres, and I don't see any reason to form a central control system that's going to be some kind of dead letter on paper until something happens. Nothing has been done here, and I wouldn't be doing it in this way that you want to degrade both the work of the headquarters and the Croatian government if it were just so disastrous, absolutely not, I'm part of that system and now I don't see that disaster that you're trying to cause.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34309	Thank you very much. The next replica, the third in line as was this respected colleague Oreskovic, so the replica of representative Andreja Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34310	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Members, with some parts of your debate may agree, you have actually said well that there was an unpreparedness of local units, municipalities, etc., but you can agree that this was a disaster throughout the county, so don't you think it's still not with responsibility in that one municipality? So there was supposed to be some kind of co-ordination in the area of the county itself, and the fact is that on the real one, the second day, trucks were coming back from Petrinja to Zagreb, people didn't know who to turn to. I think it's regional, so it's just a county we've heard about before that they characterized themselves that they're not prepared. So they were supposed to be some kind of central reception or application that people were going to turn to, so that they co-ordinated. So, it's gone and this is all we're saying here, I'd like all of you colleagues and the secretary of state to be gone, to accept the constructiveity of the debate, to mean something was right. And we need to fix it for future lessons. [[Intruder Škoro: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34311	Thank you, time, reply to the replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34312	That's right, I agree, and I'll start with the last one. All that is wrong should be corrected by practicing a system that will adequately respond to any elemental accident. Regional centres are something we need, not just in the formal justice system, so we choose who's going to be chief or who's going to be deputy headquarters, and then absolutely nothing happens after that. What I know is that in the new Civil Protection Act, it's safe to say that they're what they are. regional centres that will unite certain regions in Croatia where all civil protection units will be able to adequately train for any threat that threatens to be natural disasters or whether it is processes that may occur, factors, chemical and others. It's a matter, exercise, a lot of practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34313	Thank you very much. The next replica, the esteemed representative of Nikola Grmoy, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34314	Thank you, Your Honor. My dear colleague, both you and my colleague, Boric, in the debate that preceded you, obviously you are not aware of what parliament is for. You said that this debate went in some direction that it didn't have to go in, you would define to us what we were going to discuss, in which way we're going to discuss, so it's totally inappropriate, and if we're going to talk about a system reaction to this elemental disaster, I was three hours after the earthquake outside Lidla in Petrinja, yes, in Petrinja and we're at our disposal. It was us and the HGSS. Fans, no one knew where to guide us. It shows that there was no coordination, that there were people who were willing to help but that they were not co-ordinated. Admit your mistakes so we can correct them for the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34315	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34316	Thank you very much. The esteemed colleague of Grmoya, however, I was just the other way around, and I said that we are glad to discuss the system of civil protection, regardless of what may not be everything we are discussing today. As for what you were talking about, so said Mr. Boric, I listened very carefully to his debate and I was even glad that he was in front of me, so I thought you'd spend most of the replicas on him, and it would be easier for me, too. Thanks to all of you good people who first came, that's the point, we're all civil protection, we all want to help in trouble, but that was good, but again someone has to coordinate the entire system, command with the whole system because what happened in the first few days, it was also more media maybe followed, and today someone there provides assistance in Sisak-Moslavina County and these are members of course, here are the services that are in the civil protection system.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34317	Next replica, respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34318	Thank you very much. Coliga Ivanovic, we try to explain the system all the time, we say that it works without those who are not part of the system, that they simply do not understand and bring it down to one fund whether it is founded or not. The one who's the leader, you've been in the regional self-government, I'm in the local, who passes the civil protection inspection, annually, with all the documents you have to have, with the means you have to justify, with the role in the means that civil protection is needed, it's not the fire department, the fire department on the other hand, it's just civil protection. So all the plans you have to bring through the representative bodies, so... And then someone comes to you and says you don't do anything and you didn't do anything, it has nothing to do with anything. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They're people who look at every problem that way. And when you warn them that they're doing the wrong thing and they're saying the wrong thing, they're still going on, and that doesn't work because you didn't set up the fund. And that's it. And you can't explain it to them. Why? Because they don't want to hear it. They came with their agendas here and they want to discuss something else. It's good to discuss law and dangerous substances, dangerous.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34319	Time, response to the replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34320	Thank you very much. Of course, often the civil protection system is measured only through the fire department and then we have a problem as soon as there's some trouble, the first ones who jump to help, the firemen. Firefighters are only part of this operating system, we need to tie all links to the civil protection system and we need to invest serious money, so we understand, in the civil protection system. Without the equipment, without what we need in the operational sense, we're not going to achieve any results, we're going to act verseically, and the verse isn't always the best solution. Therefore, this topic today is very, very important and I would like it to be a more frequent topic in the Assembly because the civil protection system is essentially the protection of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34321	Thank you very much. Third replica on this agenda point, respected representative Rade Simičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34322	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament for the warning. Your Honor, we live at a time when the elemental disasters are actually everyday, we have fires, we have floods and unfortunately we have now and the earthquakes that are common but the market is now directed at an earthquake on Banovina and ok, but these people are now in need and these people and now somebody's helping out there. So if there was no civil protection, then all of this would be dead and we just live in a time when we want to now and right now. We live in social media times because when you published one on the social network this morning at 5:00, it's up to 7:00 a.m. not tonight. And that's how we actually compare. I know places where the earthquake was and that people didn't get a tent for three months. And here instead of telling people thank you for giving We can always do better, we want better, we're going to equip civil protection, we're going to work on synergy we're actually destroying everything. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34323	Thank you. Answer to the replica, please, Mr. Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34324	Thank you very much. That's right, there are certainly those who are much, much worse than us, we who have been in this civil protection system have also had exercises that have been cross-border so we can see how their civil protection headquarters work in neighbouring countries of the region. I must say that Croatia has reached a higher standard there. To be able to do more and more, better absolutely agree with it, and I will always be on that line that we must not idealize ourselves, we must exercise a lot, and we must watch someone else do something, what is best to bring here to Croatia and establish a system that will guarantee to every citizen of the Republic of Croatia that when the disaster comes we will know adequately and respond. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34325	Thank you very much. Next replica, respected representative Daniel Spajic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34326	Dear fellow, look, we don't criticise all the people involved in civil protection, e.g. I have information that when you were in charge of civil protection in your neighborhood, that you were the first to wear a uniform, to point out all the acts, to raise the drones, to film people on the streets, to punish them when they went on a tractor in the field, so was it planned, or were you doing it on your basic initiative? Here, you can answer that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34327	Here you go, sir, when you can do it that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34328	Of course, thank you very much, absolutely incorrectly for the civil protection of Osijek-Baranja County as much as possible, we were aware of the situation. As far as the family is concerned about these uniforms, the civil protection system has been prescribed certain points, they are not acts of any kind, such as identification marks, to be known in case something comes up to who's on the ground. So it's not about any kind of parade uniforms or anything like that, it's something that belongs to the captain's uniforms, of course, and this thing about the other one that we've been punishing tractorists and that, we may not have been in another county, I've even gone more than on our farmers' hands, we've been in the time of the spring sowing and we've been the first headquarters to start and open and green markets in our county. Therefore, there are certain individuals who want to use the system for their own promotion I don't need her, so I didn't... [[Intruder: Thank you, time.]] [[Speakers speaking at the same time do not understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34329	Thank you. The next replica, the esteemed representative of Angelko Strick.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34330	Thank you. A colleague of Ivanovic's is always connected to the budget. So civil protection units are obliged to form municipalities and cities along with this mayor, the chief must plan funds for firefighting, for kindergarten, if there is a primary school in his area, regardless of whether the founder of the county certainly wants to help that school finance extracurricular activities, maintenance of unclassified roads, parks, cemetery, streets. Most of the time, there's never enough financial resources to cover everything you've planned in that financial year. Therefore, of course, care should be taken about all these threats as much as possible about the civil protection system, to allocate the resources that you have at the end of your debate for both equipment and training. And of course those who were not chiefs, the mayors find it difficult for them to understand.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34331	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34332	Thank you very much. I agree that municipal and urban budgets are mostly when it comes to these continental counties and units of local self-government very, very small but not the amount of money that will determine how we will prepare for something and how we will be prepared to respond to this action, the appeal and it is for all local and regional self-government leaders not to forget civil protection because when a few years does not occur neither floods, nor earthquakes, nor fires, nor anything of course they fall asleep and then their budget projections for that item are very low or miserable. That's not good. So this situation only teaches us something, if we don't get the best out of this, then I don't think we've been at the level of the task that was set before us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34333	Thank you. Next individual debate, respected representative Marija Selak Rasdic. I would like to thank you for your cooperation with your colleague and colleagues. Furio Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34334	My colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives, I will no longer talk about the Gaud Gate, I will no longer talk about why you bought a kilo of vulgaris cheese by 80 kuna, when retailing can be found for 50 kuna, I will no longer talk about some other items within the supply of civil protection, there are everything from jam to meat cans, but long years we will return to this, and in particular we will return to these topics if you will continue to refuse to return all this supply from medical equipment and to what the headquarters is supplied to the public procurement system and make it completely transparent for Croatian citizens. Because when details come out to you, as Boric said, and our citizens are 200 to 400 thousand kunas that could be saved much more than details of some and the premium of life or income. As long as these things happen, these details will make the focus of all the debates, not just these, because when we solve the problems of corruption and potential corruption or the system that enables them, then we will be able to deal with other things as well. So I'm not talking about the cheese that cost 80 kuna instead of 50 kuna. I'm going to say something about disasters. Civil Protection headquarters is a body that reacts in the event of a disaster. We've had a disaster now inside the disaster. It doesn't matter what a disaster, I'll remind you that earthquakes including tsunamis killed more people than any other kind of disaster together in the world took nearly 750,000 lives between '94. and 2013 It is precisely the problem of economic inequality that makes a difference in the number of deaths in higher and lower GNI countries, on average more than three times as many people died by disaster in low-income countries than in high-income countries. Why am I saying that? Because our underlying problem, which is the previous activation of civil protection, is why we have even come with an earthquake of 5.5 to 6.2 at disaster level, while in Chile or somewhere else recently in Japan, they do not blink when that degree goes beyond 7, so because we are poor, because we are not investing enough in our equipment, in our functionality of the institutions and even the buildings in which people live on the ground, and this consequently leads to the declaration of disaster and the activation of civil protection systems. The other is the problem, the problem between disaster relations and major accidents. In an earlier speech, the name of the club, I mentioned that the disaster was defined by the way civil protection managed to respond, which means if you don't have good civil protection, then the state will finance you 100% of your renewal, which is absurd. The same major accident that we treat with these amendments and the addition of laws that are mainly focused on the domino effect is defined by the fact that it was not possible to resolve itself only by acting in haste services in the field of its creation. We here have a twist of causes and consequences, so we can't define what we have on the ground and what no one organized on time and for which no one is responsible to define the event that happened. Our response to this does not make it an event of a major accident or disaster, and it is very important to distinguish between natural disaster, major disaster or disaster because these are three fundamental concepts that justify the functioning and operation of civil protection in general, and as we have seen in the new amendments and additions to the Rehabilitation Act, they will also determine the way of financing areas affected by what would likely be a disaster, or disaster, is that there is no effective civil protection, and here I reminded you that in view of the number of victims that the disaster has not been financed enough to prevent natural disasters from causing a disaster. What is the function of the Civil Protection Staff at local and regional (regional) level? What is fundamental in which we need to deal with what the law is now to be resolved, and we have only done what is urgent and what has been ordered by the EU, the distinction of competence between the ministry and the representative body of the local self-government unit. We should have changed the illogicalness of this law so that we wouldn't have happened anymore if I didn't know who, when to act in case of what we decided to declare a disaster.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34335	You have a replica, Mr. Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34336	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Selak Raspoudić, you said that you would not speak now in this speech about public procurement and what happens after this accident that hit Banovina, but I think it is all part of the civil protection system because it shows that the system does not or that this mess that exists is used to make use of. So, we don't exist a civil protection system, it doesn't actually exist a system used by individuals to achieve property benefits. That's what needs to be changed, and we also need to finally prepare ourselves for these elemental disasters.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34337	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34338	A fellow Thunderbolt, that gauda is never just a gauda nor can it exist. There's either a system where a gauda can't happen or a system where everything is gauda. And here the gauda is taken as an example because every layman, including myself, who will carefully study the documents, at least the small part that has been given to us in view of that he does not want to go through the process of transparency of public procurement, knows what the price of cheese is and can check what the price of cheese is so he can see what potential malversions are here. And what about all the other equipment we don't have a clue about and what's going on between the eyes of the public? I don't know how much a respirator should cost, I don't know how much they cost disinfectants and other medical equipment and I'm not directed into it and I can't point it out, but I can say how much a gauda cheese costs and that the system in which there's gauda cheese is a system in which all gauda cheese. It's just a metaphor.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34339	Thank you. Mrs. Rada Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34340	My colleague Selak Rasudiæ, you also spoke about the definition of disaster, namely today no one said it was still November 7, 2019. The government has adopted a disaster risk assessment for the Republic of Croatia and was adopted by the government and it says that the law does not therefore address the problems of the civil protection system at local levels. Kolega Ivanovic said that when we do not have fires or disasters to invest enough in local communities in civil protection, however, the fact is that 258 municipalities that is 55% of the total number cannot function without a grant from the state budget, so some of them do not single out financial resources at all for the needs of the development of the civil protection system. So that warns us in this document, not just that little asset which separates, therefore, only for operational capacity, and [[Intruder: Time.]] not for preventive purposes. [[Thank you very much.]] What would disaster prevention mean?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34341	Thank you very much. Answer, Mrs. Selak Raspadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34342	I agree that investment is a fundamental problem that makes it impossible for us to have effective civil protection, but there is also a problem that precedes this, we have not implemented reform at the level of regional and local self-government units, so the only decentralised function in Croatia, if I am not mistaken, is fire. We should decentralize everything so that within the unit of local self-government we can quality organize civil protection headquarters, and not that in the case, as it has now happened, the first and even in the world frameworks, let's be realistic, not so much a powerful earthquake, we need to activate the national level, which then eventually makes us declare this same case a disaster, and that it is a disaster on the ground, so we will soon have a government within the government, which is ours now, the case. So to act preventively means to have a strong civil protection system on the ground, which will be able to act locally without resisting the finger again at the centre of power.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34343	Thank you. You're done with the replicas. Dalia Oreshkovic. Mr. Bulj, I know what you want to talk about, you answered when it was.../incomprehensible... when she responded to Mrs., when she responded to the replicas you answered, and not when she spoke, no, no, no, no, no, please contact the Committee on the Constitution and Rules of Procedure, please. Nuts.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34344	Honored chairman, fellow MPs and MPs. The practice by which the government, calling for crisis situations, extensively interprets laws and thus tries to hide that the government is in violation of these laws, is a very dangerous practice. Democracy is fragile if the will of the authorities gets out of hand. Existing.../incomprehensible/... The civil protection system law beyond these provisions that we are today harmonising with EU-level terminology is clear and coherent. Under the law, there had to be a chain of civil protection bodies before any disaster occurred so that, in the event of a need, the chain could be activated and activated. We are witnessing that there was neither the first earthquake nor the second one. The Corona crisis has been going on for a year, we have a headquarters that, by its authority, according to its role, designed to function completely beyond what the civil protection system should do, and even so, a real headquarters that would be willing to react when a new disaster happens, still does not exist, there is no such thing. So when it comes to the coronary crisis, the headquarters was not needed, absolutely not with such powers as it was given, and precisely because of this corona headquarters was not a headquarters that could react properly and in due time to the disaster caused by the earthquake in Bania. We have to imagine ourselves deeply above that. The new earthquake headquarters was founded only after the aid system failed on the ground, the law predicts the existence of a single national headquarters, not two. For the formation of this second national earthquake headquarters, next to that Covid headquarters, there is no foothold in the law. So our basic problem is not in the provisions of the Civil Protection System Act itself but in the inability of this authority to respect and act on it because I repeat the question, how will we react in the event of any new disaster? Are we going to re-form another newly invented national headquarters? The national headquarters, as well as those county headquarters, as well as the city headquarters, must be formed before any disaster, or such headquarters must exist permanently and be activated in the event of need. We have testified that neither the state nor the county, the cities and the municipalities had functional headquarters at the time of the disaster. International aid under the law can be requested and accepted only on the basis of a previous government decision and here we have another example of how the government acted and how it violated the provisions of this law at the time of the crisis. It is not known whether the government has ever made formal decisions seeking and receiving international legal assistance. Furthermore, the Ministry of the Interior was obliged to ensure the training of participants in the civil protection system, including members of the headquarters, including members of the National Staff, and from reactions and actions, both mayor and mayor in affected areas, it appears that they were not properly trained, i.e. they did not undergo appropriate training for what they needed in the event of a disaster. We have witnessed a difficult misunderstanding and inability to manage in crisis situations. In the case of a major disaster, the Law states that communication standard operating procedures and protocols apply. So, it says in the Law, and we have testified that at the moment of the second, the largest earthquake in Banja was held at the same time by two press conferences, one press conference was held by the mayor, and the second mayor of Petrinja, each at its location, and none of them had any formed headquarters that could answer the questions of the interested public, so there were no operational procedures and protocols, let alone communication standards. Furthermore, I will only mention a few decided provisions of the law. So, Art. 65 says the training of municipal chiefs, mayors, mayors, members of headquarters at all levels of formation, members of civil protection units, commissioners and their deputy services, bodies and citizens is required. The formal education programme is brought by the minister. The State may establish a state public institution for the implementation of training in the civil protection system. Who is responsible for the lack of proper training? Furthermore, information to the public is carried out by the Ministry and other professional services. Recently we saw that Bianca Matkovic received one small task amounting to slightly less than 200 thousand kuna for campaigning the vaccine, thinking of others. The task could have been carried out by the ministry without the assignment of business to those who did not need such a job assignment. [[Thank you. Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34345	Thank you. You don't have a replica. Thank you. No, you don't. You don't have any replicas, ma'am. Nuts, thank you. It's Mr. Damir Habian's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34346	Thank you very much, Vice President. Your Honor, Secretary of State. My colleagues and colleagues. Here we talked a lot today about the very proposal for a law, perhaps more and more beyond this topic itself, which mainly refers to the implementation or transposition of the directive into national legislation. Given the above, I will try to stay within the framework of the law or I will refer to some of the allegations that have been made here on behalf of the clubs, but also during today's individual discussions. What would actually first refer to concerns the allegations made by part of the opposition, which relate to the transposition or implementation of Directive 2012/18 or that, if I remember correctly here, we were not able to transpose the directive into national law. For example, so colleague Oreskovic mentioned today and criticised the fact that the directive was not properly implemented in national legislation, and only a week ago in this house during the discussions on amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection of Competition, Col. Oreskovic said something completely diametric contrary. Then she said I would quote from the phonogram "It is my concern that whatever the directive is, we should not easily accept everything in this directive". Otherwise, for the sake of infringement of EU law, there are several stages, so we have a pretrial procedure and a court case. The pre-trial procedure consists of an informal phase where the European Commission sends a certain warning, and there is also a formal part that will only be applied if the state does not act on notice. These today's amendments and additions, in principle, Croatia has made a... directive and is acting exactly in line with the European Commission's observation. It is also important to point out that the infringement procedure is not unusual for EU member states or is visible from the practice of both the European Commission and the European Court of Justice that the procedures in question are actually very common. Secondly, I do not know which time in this House of Commons on the National Civil Protection Centre is about the context of a para-state body, bodies that are not set up in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and how that body is not authorised to adopt measures prescribed by the Civil Protection System Act and the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases. So again as last time I will point to the Constitutional Court's decision on the Civil Protection Act, as well as the new Constitutional Court decision, which was published two days ago on the website of the Court of Justice. In that decision of 3 February 20221.g. The Constitutional Court states, among other things, that I quote "as regards the legal powers of the Staff for the adoption of measures to prevent the pandemic of Covid-19 the Constitutional Court notes that the contested laws are the basis of which the headquarters is authorised to adopt measures of the prescribed articles. 47. The law on the protection of the public against infectious diseases Parliament discussed and adopted in a prescribed legislative procedure." The Constitutional Court also reiterates what it has already said on several occasions that "the headquarters is a professional, operational and co-ordinated body for the implementation of measures and civil protection activities in major accidents and disasters, acting under the direct supervision of the government", and that is the decision of the Constitutional Court, which was made by the majority of votes. The opinions read by counterpart Oreskovic have been set aside. The above-mentioned opinion therefore serves to strengthen the personal integrity and independence of the judge, however, the separate opinion does not affect the very decision taken by the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court has shown that proposals for the assessment of compliance with the provisions of the Civil Protection System Act and the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases were made in its decision and confirmed that the national headquarters was established in accordance with the positive regulations of the Republic of Croatia and the measures adopted under the law in question are proportionate and legitimate. I would also refer to the part that was mentioned here by part of the opposition, which concerns the facts or claims they made that the system is not working. I will repeat what I have already said in my replica, and obviously it is necessary to once again point out, December 29, 2020. So on the very day of that strongest earthquake, 2,000 people were on the ground at that moment from the HGSS, from the police, from the firefighters, from the Red Cross, so all those pillars that make up and the civil protection system. More than 100 people were pulled out of the ruins by the end of that day, so the first and most important goal of saving human lives was achieved. The second evacuation mission was complete evacuation of the petrin hospital, partial evacuation of the mammalian hospital, evacuation of the petrin's nursing home, evacuation of home in Glina, thus saying that the system does not work that the civil protection system does not absolutely work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34347	Thank you, too. The replica has Mr. Angelko Striker.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34348	I believe that you have been closest to the subject, that you have really stuck to the subject, except for the amendments and the additions you have managed to link everything to the directive, the decisions of the Constitutional Court, and I also congratulate you on that. And you also managed to set an example from a literal practice where you listed statistics to see that the national headquarters is doing well, that it is a professional, operational and co-ordinated body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34349	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34350	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Well, as you said in your debate, it's hard to actually present in these few minutes everything these few might say for hours and days, but here I'm going to use this time that I have here was also mentioned that insufficient funds are being invested right into the civil protection system. Therefore, only one information, this Government, i.e. only in the period from 2018-20.g. 200m euros has been invested right in the civil protection system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34351	Mr. William Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34352	Agent Habib, it is the fact that the earthquake on 22.3. showed a certain inexperience in the City Council itself that civil protection procedures were not effective, that the order of conduct was not adequate. For nine months, it was time for this experience to be introduced and the protocols to be repaired, to fix these sequences of actions. True, all you say there was an army, they were firefighters, they were HGSS, but all witnesses, they were numerous volunteers, but the lack of that experience that was possible in the spring led to the fact that the only one who hadn't worked for days was right, was civil protection. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34353	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34354	This last thing you said got me pretty worried about this. So, if I understand correctly, you said that civil protection headquarters hasn't worked for days, so it's a pretty dangerous thesis that I definitely can't agree with, I don't know if anyone on the ground can agree with that. A positive framework, i.e. a positive regulation, that is, the legislative framework for the reconstruction here you have always mentioned the example of Zagreb, but now we can also mention the example of Sisak-Moslavina, Karlovačka and Zagreb County was created so it was brought right here in this house. We have over EUR 600 million available only for the resolution of the EU funds. So, I would sometimes expect some constructive proposal, so you said 9 months nothing was done, I didn't hear what you suggested in those 9 months as well as in this something constructive, just always some criticism. And knowing or knowing that you're an aikid supporter is then in this case I'm going to apply exactly that technique, and you know what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34355	Thanks, you don't have any more replicas. Now it's Mrs. Maja Grba Bujevic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34356	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Assembly, the Honorable Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues, I will say something about the training of civil protection headquarters, but only the headquarters of all stakeholders in the civil protection system, because it has often been heard here today that they are not trained, that there are no idea what numbers these people have trained, so let me devote this to the little training they've done. I know it's not that old name that doesn't surprise us, that some people may suffer, but through this display I'm going to show you that all these measures are still going on. This means training in the civil protection system as well as all other forms of specialist training of participants and operational forces takes a significant place, so these jobs are defined by the current Civil Protection System Act. According to the same law, municipal chiefs, mayors and mayors have been trained to carry out civil protection activities immediately in local elections and so far an education for a total of 576 heads of the regional district self-government unit has been trained 530, which is 92%. After local elections, a new education will be held for those then elected. Following the 2017 local elections, members of the civil protection headquarters of local and regional regional self-government have been trained in accordance with the same law that is in force. Of the 4969 appointed staff members, 4864 was trained at 97%. Of course he will again be behind the local elections once again when it defines who the leaders are will be retrained in the same way. The specialist training of members of the operational forces under which we have already defined who the operational forces are, means firemen, HGSS and the Red Cross are given attention to all levels of action. In cooperation with the field civil protection offices in the counties, training was carried out for, during 2019 for 239 civil protection directors for exercise organisations in the intensive system. During 2020, this education, which I just said something about, is something that has stalled for objective reasons of inability to group people in one place. They were held online which will continue as long as these measures last. Special attention was given to the education of the population on the dangers of mine explosives. In 2019, 169 education was conducted on mine dangers where 20,087 people were educated, in 17 counties, 87 cities and municipalities. In 2020, there were slightly smaller ones for known epidemiological reasons. Also, raising the awareness and education of citizens is the first step towards any positive change, especially if it seems in a way that takes particular account of the youngest and most vulnerable groups, but also the most significant stakeholders of society whose adoption of knowledge and new attitudes will create the best basis for creating a culture of prevention and sustainability of development. Therefore, special attention is paid to the disciples. The district civil protection and civil protection offices visit schools and kindergartens in each county, including 500 lectures involving 24.158 children in 2019. Because of the epidemiological situation this year, there's something less. Given the systematic education, since the system education in schools has not been created a project called On the way to reducing the risk of disaster that has been financed from structural funds and its total value is 14 million kuna. The project includes children of school age, and it is also in the plan of getting vehicles that are actually simulated by the earthquake, so children will be able to really feel what it looks like, so that they can protect themselves in such situations. Special education is dedicated to persons with special needs, and a number of organizations have been educated as part of this, which represent special people with special needs, and brochures have also been made for the treatment of accidents and disasters for this particular category. Of course, a number of lenses have been made and all of this is later practiced through the participation of the operational forces so that they can respond as best as possible and according to the standard operating procedures that exist for each of these procedures although it was said not to be so. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34357	Thank you very much, stay, stay, stay, Mr. Klaric has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34358	Dear colleagues, you have just said what you have and denied all those who have talked about the disorganization of civil protection in the area of the Republic of Croatia, it has indeed been so, and after the local elections, the whole mechanism has been launched. Here I responded to the replica just to add to all of what you said was so educated and formed JLS's from the county defence offices and the people in the composition that were obliged and equipped, and then to implement education programmes, so that with fire, public fire departments, DVDs and civil protection offices during this period it was really raised to a high level, and I think that at this point with these threats that occurred in the area and earthquakes in Zagreb, so here in Sisak-Moslavina County, it really happened.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34359	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34360	Thank you, colleague Klaric. I know that you, as head of the local administration, know very well what you've been through in the Civil Protection Educational Programme as well as your appointed Chief of Staff and all those involved in responding to such a situation. You know that they're organized by setting up, for people who are on your ground, by setting up tents through the use of chain saws, through everything that can be done in a great accident and disaster, and others who are leaders and know all those who want to know if it's really something that's being carried out.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34361	Thank you very much, thank you, thank you. Mr. Uncle.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34362	Thank you. Dear MPs, in your debate you gave a review of training training, let's call it "active composition". However, it is important to stress there is no state in the world that can only rely on professionals, so there are both reserve compositions and volunteers. There is no country in the world, no matter how technical and technologically advanced, that can solve such disasters within a day of two or two weeks or give God a month two, it simply doesn't exist. And among other things, it's also a huge financial cost if we want to keep jobs because of the coronary epidemic, from the first and second earthquakes and all those other accidents and accidents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34363	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34364	You're right, fellow Striker, and thank you for your replica because you've given me the opportunity to say that not only these operational forces are involved in these exercises, but all those citizens that we need at that time are participating. Such a great exercise, which is carried out in particular at the state level, is a search for a fallen aircraft that includes, apart from the operational forces, police and emergency medical services and the health care system as well, and includes climbers who are then looking for, learn to search, use GPS and all that is necessary, use, use as well as people or associations who have dogs trackers and so on... and with one single goal, then all those who know the instructions on the ground where it will be needed in our beautiful, and not only are locally directed and it is a civil protection system. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34365	Mrs. Devereaux. Branka Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34366	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues of Grba-Bujević, you said that training of municipal mayors, mayors and mayors in 2017 has been through 92%, as we expect in '21. all those newly elected also access training. We know that according to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia it is precisely part of the civil protection system, civil protection affairs are within the scope of the units of local and regional (regional) self-government. However, I would say here that we should think carefully about how to help small JLS especially because when we know that in Croatia we have 428 municipalities, that we have even a municipality like in my Sibenik-Knin County, the municipality of Civilians with only 137 inhabitants, that we have municipalities such as. Lakes with only 757 kuna per capita We need to see how to relieve them and help both personnel and financials. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34367	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34368	Dear colleagues, this will certainly be the subject of an amendment and addition to the new Civil Protection System Act and trust that it is certainly being discussed at the relevant institutions. All I have left to say is that's exactly why the definition of a major accident is the one that defines what we need to do. So the big accident is about when one environment can't respond to the challenge that's coming. So you can certainly not set up a system so that this small municipality you're talking about will respond to a big forest fire that's going to be there, and that's why it's a civil protection that brings them all together, that it educates them all, and that it's actually common that you have growing powers and growing forces, and that's best shown in Sisak-Moslavina, where all these services have responded in record time.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34369	Thank you. Mrs. Devereaux. It's a steel man.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34370	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues, you spoke of the importance of education and indeed it is, apart from civil protection equipment, it is very important and educational. We who are from Karlovac and Karlovac County had before these earthquakes unfortunately an emergency situation due to the floods when civil protection headquarters were called in and they really function from local level, and we have seen now and to national level. What I would say, I think it is precisely in the city of Karlovac that this has proved to be a good practice, and since we have local self-government, I think it would certainly be good in all JLSs to include everything within local self-government in education because they are the ones in the area that are currently at risk the first to know the situation on the ground and can be actively involved, so I think it would certainly be good for them to be included in education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34371	Thank you, too. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34372	That is why much attention is paid from school age, or from preschool, as I said, so through kindergartens is carried out by this kind of education, continues through schools through this project which is extremely important which will indeed produce one manual that will then actually remain a secret, lasting value from this project. And of course, you're absolutely right, we should all be clearly involved in this because we're all civil protection, so it's not some institution, it's all we're part of civil protection. I answer to the threat, I answer in my home, then in my backyard, and then in the neighboring yard, and that's how that whole civil protection system grows, and that everyone needs to go through education, I agree with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34373	And Mrs. Nada Murganic's last replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34374	Here's a thank you. Dear colleagues. Here I have reported for the replica, although much is said here, you have chosen in an individual debate a topic that was at least now represented in this debate today, and you have given the importance of how important education is, not only people who are in some way at the top of different civil protection headquarters, officials, volunteers who are organized through associations or through the Red Cross, the HGSS, firefighters and all other citizens. In this earthquake, as well as in Zagreb, we saw how the civil protection system really works quickly, and this is certainly not true because it was quickly saved by people who were being helped in the ruins, there were education and institutions, institutions, the entire population and volunteers who were involved in the construction operation. And that education you were talking about is extremely important to those citizens who have a heart of help, but they don't know how.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34375	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34376	That's how my colleague Murganić is, which is why everyone in this system is welcome, but it is necessary to know exactly their role and place. It's hard to expect for someone who comes and didn't finish all these expensive educations, doesn't know the system how they all work is here if we're going to go about Sisak-Moslavina and I've had offers of doctors, technicians, nurses to help us all go through the Red Cross enrollment to actually help as volunteers to be protected in case anything can happen to someone. It's not just that, it's easy to fall off the roof, but if you have the protection of the volunteering institution here, then that way you actually have some other protection in case something happens, it's not insignificant, and it's been a big concern for everyone who took part in it so that something like that doesn't happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34377	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. Thank you. Now the Club of Representatives of the Mosta will have a final presentation, Mrs. Marija Selak Rasdic is up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34378	My colleagues and fellow MPs. I am pleased to hear that my colleague Grba Bujević agreed that we cannot define the weight and strength of the event by answering on the ground because this brings us into an absurd situation, so I hope that in the future, one day, when we really deal with the quality of the law that will help us to better respond in practice and change these things so that we do not repeat these illogical clues in the future. The basic thing to do, and we could have done it now, is nothing to prevent us from demarcating what is the function of the Civil Protection Staff at local regional or regional level, so we need to know who is in charge of this headquarters. We cannot have two different articles in the law. Article 21 26 that are conflicting with regard to the jurisdiction of the Civil Protection Staff. One is talking about the professional and operational function of the Civil Protection Headquarters, and the other is about the fact that the Civil Protection Centre can issue certain oral tasks, that it has some kind of executive function. The second thing to emphasize when we talk so much about the Civil Protection Staff is this constructive part of how to improve the Civil Protection Staff so that we don't get missed by which we have had the opportunity to witness in the past two disasters. The first thing we need to agree on is really this time frame within which we expect the Civil Protection Staff to react to a disaster on the ground. It may be true for 48 hours, but only after we have established it will we know clearly whether it has been exceeded, whether we have had an inadequate response or still everything has happened within the expected time as it has been legally determined. The second thing we need is to improve the functionality and operationality of civil protection on the ground, so on the one hand, reduce red tape on how the HGSS has never joined and can function on its own and can also identify safe zones, because we have really too many cities and municipalities and the fragmentation of civil protection and then vague distinctions to respond quickly to the disaster we need to know which areas to activate depending on where the accident happened. Of course, the most important issue remains investment, if we do not invest in the civil protection we have so far ignored, then other than the part that is proud of us, which is the firepower that happens during the summer, and most of all our air forces which can and can serve as a role model for the whole of Europe, we will have what is on the ground in this pedestrian part of what has happened to us now, and this is a general confusion at the moment when civil protection headquarters should be activated and most of all we will distribute to the individuals on the ground who are their function as responsibility bearer within civil protection understands how it should be. Citizens know they're part of civil protection and they want to help, but we didn't know what to do with them when they showed up on the ground. What will remain as a question, and what will continue to be discussed is whether we really need the current civil protection headquarters in both the disasters that we are witnessing, this epidemiological and this post-trouble, and whether what our colleague Habib mentioned, and what remains an open question when he decided to distinguish the obligations of certain state bodies in response to the epidemiological disaster, primarily by allowing us to primarily activate the civil protection system and the Civil Protection Act instead of the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases, which gave priority to the headquarters and the Minister of the Interior instead of the Minister of Health? Have we thus acknowledged that our health forces are not up to what they should be and why there is a Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases, combating epidemics, and have we also left the fight against disease in order instead of in health? These are things that will continue to be questioned in the future primarily if we bear in mind that the amendments to the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases have made a politically questionable move, which is that we have allowed their decisions and decisions to stand and retroactively. I doubt the debate on these issues will be quieter, I doubt that the debate on the civil protection headquarters will be quieted down, but at least I hope when we will have it in the future that it will not come to the exercise of democracy it was today. And I say practice because when we expanded this topic we received warnings rather than really being the work of democracy in practice where together we will look for the best solutions as a quality response to the disasters that we can, and hopefully will not happen in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34379	Thank you. Now it's Mrs. Devereaux's turn. Dalia Oreshkovic, who will speak in front of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club and final.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34380	Dearly beloved, here I am going to start by referring to my colleague Selak Rasudiæ, so let's say that we MPs didn't go beyond the scope of the topic and we didn't spread it to what we shouldn't, we talked about the civil protection system, all of it, about civil protection. I believe that it is entering a debate over the bill they have referred to by ruling. I would also like to refer to the Constitutional Court's decision, it is indisputable that it is what it is, that we must respect it, but it is perfectly legitimate to have an opinion, a separate opinion of one of the judges, as it is perfectly legitimate for me to say to this speaker that I agree with this opinion, and it is perfectly legitimate for my commitment to consider both those issues and those issues which one of the judges of the Constitutional Court said in separate opinions. And this very judge of the constitutional court that I have referred to is well known for using various language jumps and anecdotes very often in his presentations and arguments, so I will now use one such not his but mine. I will say that very often this assembly, by the dictatorship of the parliamentary majority, carries out a normative hypocrisy. And what would be the normative hypocrisy? Well, this is when we pay much more attention to the definition of certain concepts in order to be very consistent with the EU regulation and normative, and we pay almost no attention to the accuracy of legal norms and their implementation in practice in those areas that determine which body is established under certain laws, what that body should do and where it should exist. And I'm going to openly tell you what I stand for not only as a parliamentary representative but as a whole, the whole point of my political action. Well, we have one law that when read by any of our citizens, so it doesn't necessarily have to be a constitutional expert because the norm must be understandable to whoever the norm refers to, it refers to all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. So, when the law reads that the law is clear, that it is understandable, that it is unquestionable, that based on the provisions of the law, if anything else we can answer a few simple questions, how many national headquarters we can and may have, is one, whether two, whether three, whether ten. This should not be subject to interpretations of such a culture and gentlemen of the HDZ ranks but must be something that is unequivocal and clear, obviously not to you, stretching the interpretation of the law as chewing gum. Another thing that should be clear, what happens at a time when the government obviously abuses its position, position and power, the political influence it has in the state including political influence on the constitutional court itself, who is the body that can say "this is pure abuse", "this is something that is subject to sanctions", "this is something that we will process, sanction and seek resignation immediately and now". Such a body could have been a committee to decide on a conflict of interest before its wings were cut off. Such a body should also be a state attorney's office that has the courage and capacity and strength to implement what should be implemented. Such a body should also be the Commission for the control of public procurement procedures, so as to see if anything costing 180 or 190.000 kuna is deliberately determined at such a price to avoid public procurement. This should not be known which body to say "yes, the real price of cheese cannot be in public procurement twice as much as any citizen can achieve on the free market". What's the busiest and scariest fact is that in all the violations of the law that we mentioned today during this debate, there's almost no reaction from the authorities within the system itself, so I ask you, dear HDZs, whose country is this? You're acting like it's yours, but that behavior will get you heads, I hope you're already in this local election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34381	Thank you, too. I'm closing the debate, and we'll vote when we get the conditions, and now until 19 and 30 short breaks to clear the so-called. Epidemiological break. It's 7:00 P.M. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 19:29 A.M.]] It is now time to report on the implementation of the Mine Action Plan and spent financial resources for 2019. The report shall be submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty. Seven. The Mine Action Act. The debate was conducted by the Defence Committee and the Committee on Internal Political and National Security. State Secretary at the Ministry of Defence Mr. Zarko Katic will introduce us to the report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34384	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Honorable Madam Representatives and Gentlemen Representatives. Report on the implementation of the Mine Action Plan and the financial resources spent for 2019 is a document aimed at informing HS but certainly the widest public about the activities and objectives achieved in the field of mine action in 2019. as well as the financial resources provided and spent for that purpose. In accordance with the 2015 Mine Action Act, with novels from 2018 and 19. The Government of the Republic of Croatia shall adopt a plan of mine action for a one-year period and in accordance with the law referred to therein. 7th century 9th, as Mr. Chairman, the Government submitted a report on the implementation of the HS-U Plan. The mine problem that the Republic of Croatia has and has faced since the war is certainly one issue that has been bothering us for a long time and has made it difficult for us to revitalise an area that has been occupied or has been on the line of war and which has been mined on both sides of these separation lines in the largest number of cases. Despite the great resources and considerable effort, the mine problem has not been fully solved, it is our internal problem that we want to solve because of our citizens that they do not suffer, because of our guests, and also because of our economy that these areas can also enjoy the fullness of their development. Total reduction of mine suspected space in 2019 For which we submit the report is 45.8 km2 of which mine suspected mine space has been demined by 38.8 km2 and technical and general reconnaissance by an additional 7 km2. If this compares with the plan, I must say that it is not fully met, namely it is filled with this part of the work of demining, but part of the plan or part of the mine suspected space for which it was planned to shut it down and return to the community for use by the planned 15.8 therefore by technical and general reconnaissance it reduced the mine space by 7 km2. This is due to reduced personnel capacity due to the retirement of 20 pyrotechnicians, as well as the inability to use machines to the extent that they are otherwise used because of the configuration and complexity of the demining terrain. I will remind you that first demining parts of the settlement, infrastructure facilities, then gardens, agricultural land, and now more or less mountain land, forest land and some parts along with large waters, rivers, lakes, etc. This number of remaining km2 of mine suspected space in last year 2020 for which we are not submitting the report at this time but will soon be reduced by an additional 60 km2 so on 1st January this year mine suspected space in the Republic of Croatia was another 249 km2. I remind you once again, and most of you certainly know that the Republic of Croatia has committed itself and, according to the Ottawa Convention, solve the mine problem and demining the entire state territory by March 2026. The mine problem exists in eight Croatian counties, it was initially in 14 and in the meantime six counties were completely demined, and in the case of one Zadar County, the problem is planned to be solved this year. All that remains is to remind Osijek-Baranja, Požeško-slavonska, Sisak-moslavinačka, Karlovačka, Ličko-senjska, Zadarska, Sibenik and Split-Dalmatia. Here today, I watched the report, so on today are literally today and these days the jobs are done in four counties in Zadar, Sibenik-Kninska, Split-Dalmatia and Osijek-Baranja. ...there's a plan of some other will probably be a character when they come a little warmer day, there's a plan that I believe will come true in full scale this year. It is total in 2019. The current financial plan for mine action planned 400 million 976 thousand and 40 kuna and the execution was 99.57%. A successful practice from previous years on the insurance of demining funds from EU funds has been continued so that those funds are in 2019. They account for 39% of the total financial assets. For mine action in 2019 153 million 131 thousand 550 kuna was spent from the Operational Programme “Competence and Cohesion”. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The implementation of demining operations in the protected "Natura 2000" areas of Osijek-Baranja County has been completed, according to the project "Naturavita". 25.2 km2 was demined and 259 million 269 thousand 729 kuna were spent with VAT. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The demining started with the project "Fearless Velebit" which implies demining and restoring the demining and degraded forest ecosystems in the Nature Park "Velebit" and other "Natura 2000" areas in Ličko-senjska and Zadar County. The implementation of the project will demining 16.5 km2 of forests and forest land, and the value of the contracts is 210 million 797 thousand 873 kuna with VAT. I would like to remind you that demining operations, while we are already talking about numbers, are currently being performed by 42 licensed companies with a total of 534 pyrotechnicians, 70 workers and about 100 auxiliary workers and a total of 40 machines and 40 pairs of demining dogs. I will return to the funds, the funds collected as compensation for the use of the general use of forest functions so-called forest. KEFŠ of the Ministry of Agriculture in 2019 The total amount was 60 million 584 thousand 134 kuna. It is a solid, exhaustive, continuous source of demining financial resources, formalised through a special regulation which found that demining of forests and forest land provides 30% of the funds of this compensation for the OkFŠ under the forest law and the regulations resulting therefrom. The Ministry of Agriculture actively participates in the demining process and is in preparation for demining operations and monitoring the situation on the ground and using both data and information from the Croatian Forest and from the Agricultural Advisory Service. When performing demining operations in 2019 After which the MUP issued certificates of exclusion of the demining area or buildings from mine suspected space, a total of 5278 mine-explosive assets and 3006 pieces of NUS were found and destroyed, hence unexploded killings, which is a multiple increase in invention compared to previous annual reports. For example, in 2018. 2388 such funds were also found and destroyed in 2017. 1800 pieces. A large number of mine-explosive and NUS finds in demining operations are the result of planning and realisation of projects in areas polluted, or areas for which information on minefields has been confirmed. Most of them were related in this case from 2019 to the part of the Kotar forest near Petrinja and one of the five demining areas of the Naturavita project, which was related to the protected part of Kopačka rita. Therefore, it is mainly not about subsequent inventions but about the targeted demining of areas for which confirmed information on mine existence is available. Furthermore, and in 2019. A mine suspected area marking system has been maintained. It is very important that citizens and persons who may not be from that area, so hunters, hikers, hikers, tourists through the control activities set up so that they know that it is a mine suspected space not to go in there and to avoid and through the control activities set up and the setting of additional markings that point to the mine danger and the possible finding of the NUS is actually protected by the citizens not to suffer from these funds. On 1 January 2019, At the beginning of this reporting period, the mine suspected space of the Republic of Croatia was marked with 12,280 markings indicating the mine danger and possible discovery of the NUS. At the end of that period, therefore on 31 December 2019, mine suspected space was marked with 11,540 mine hazard plates, or 37 plates per km2 of mine suspected space. So that number was slightly smaller, but part of the total of 39 km2 was demining, so that space was smaller. There is also a problem in some areas that these tables are being estranged, but for this there are sanctions in the law that unauthorizedly remove these tables are being punished. Satisfactory marking of mine suspected space and continuous education on mine danger as well as available e-services that allow insight into mine suspected space contribute to the absence or reduction of mine incidents and accidents. When I talk about it, I can mention it by 2019. There were no mine incidents with fatalities in the Republic of Croatia. Two people were killed by mines in that year, one civilian and one demining assistant, and so they suffered physical injuries. And last 2020. One person was killed, so to date the total number from the end of the war to the present-day victims is exactly 600, so 600 were killed by mines, of which 203 of those 600 were fatal. By performing demining operations in the Republic of Croatia, 132 pyrotechnics were also killed, unfortunately 38 fatal. The last death of civilians was 2014, and the last death toll of children, which is always the greatest loss in 2004, so 17 years ago. In accordance with the plan for 2019, training has been carried out on the dangers of mine explosive and non-exploded killings, and continued international cooperation in the field of mine action. The mine action plan for 2019 was therefore realised according to the objectives set, I would say entirely except for the realisation of the reduction of mine suspected space by general and technical reconnaissance which has objective and reasoned reasons. I'll also say a few words, so we agreed on the demining of military facilities, and then there's my colleague Branko Hrg from the Ministry of Defense, so I don't report on behalf of the promoter twice. Excuse me. Therefore, demining military sites and buildings in 2019. It was conducted by the Armed Forces Engineering Unit of the Republic of Croatia. A total of 8 demining tasks were carried out, of which four were planned, and 4 were out of the plan, so we are talking about military facilities. The demining was conducted in the area of two military, two military polygons and one military location and two military storage complexes. The total treatment was 471.272 m2, and it was demining 304,917 m2 or expressing myself by those figures that I used to speak in kilometers, that's 0.3 km2. 12 pieces of anti-walking mines and 929 pieces of various and unexploded killings were found, removed and destroyed, and anti-arming mines were not found. Therefore, this demining was done in the area, according to these tasks from the plan of Vojarna "Colnik Marko Zivković" at Ples near Velika Gorica and at the military site Panos na Velebit, and outside of the plan the tasks were carried out on the military polygon "Eugen Kvaternik" near Slunja and Vojarni "Pukovnik Mirko Vukusic" in Zemunik Donji, and the cost was incurred by the implementation of the plan for demining military facilities in 2019. It was HRK 562,664 and total cost 2,418,316. In conclusion, I'm going back to the full report. The structural reform of the mine action system in the first year of application resulted in the efficiency of the system, faster exchange and data processing, and with a centralised data pooling system, as well as faster and more high quality inter-resor and cross-sectoral cooperation. A reduction in the costs of the system for operational affairs, pooling of professional staff and faster exchange of professional knowledge and experience has been achieved and a higher level of efficiency of most components of the system has been achieved. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34385	You have several replicas, the first replica was sought by Mr. Ante Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34386	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State and the Honorable Second Secretary of State and your associate. We know that the recent decades have increased, i.e. We know that the main problem was precisely financial nature, but also in the last 5 years, especially with the entry into the EU, new funds have opened up to you, especially from European funds, and I am not interested in how much there is not in the report itself, and this is about new technologies themselves, we know that some companies have prepared and prepared planes and drones that can map areas that are full of mines themselves, I am interested in how much we invest from these funds, especially from new funds and in new technologies, would we not facilitate and speed up the road themselves so that Croatia can finally become demined? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34387	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34388	Dear Mr. Representative, our companies, especially this private sector, have invested a lot in development and this experience of demining has allowed some of them to accomplish favourable jobs in that branch in other countries around the world. Generally public and private sector has gained great experience and the Republic of Croatia and our experts are in this unfortunately difficult and responsible business, but which, this fate has hit many other countries, have been recognised and appreciated by our opinions and attitudes, many have also copied some of our normative and professional solutions. The biggest problem to complete the successful demining by the planned deadline is I repeat, March 2026, there will be financial resources. It is estimated that it will be needed as it was in 2019 about 400 million Kuna to successfully bring this task to an end. [[Intruder: Time, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34389	Mr. Pavlichek.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34390	Dear Secretary of State, here's a question: Can you give me an indicative of how far Croatia has been since '96? The year until 2020, '21. spent demining funds, and do you expect 2026 to really end it?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34391	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34392	Your Honor, I can't answer you for the total funds right now. Therefore, according to all plans according to operational readiness, according to the number of pyrotechnics and the entire system that exists, it can be absolutely said that the Republic of Croatia will be demined by that deadline. So, the only thing we're going to need is a certain amount of resources to succeed in this task, and I said that would be about $400 million a year, which we expect to get from different European funds in a good way. It's been mostly moving in 2019 in recent years. 39%, but there were years when there were over 50 years, two before that there were over 50% of European funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34393	Mrs. Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34394	Thank you very much. The esteemed secretary of state here in the report says 152 mine danger educations have been carried out in 17 counties, that education has been attended by slightly less than 20,000 people and a seminar is being organised to further improve the education of the population. The seminar will actually be attended, attended by members of civil protection who have actually been conducting education since 1996. Now, I'm interested in how often such a seminar is being organised, how much this particular one that stands out in the report, and how you actually do those educations, so not only the adult population, but also the children, but it should also go a little more closely with the promotion into the media that seems to be showing up here and there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34395	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34396	I'll start at the end, and here I agree with you that maybe it should be more proactive in the media sense, so in the promiscuous sense and public notice, but these educations are held regularly, they are to the greatest extent intended for children because children are curious and in any case less cautious than in general, than adults, but they were also intended for different categories of persons who live or work in nature, such as hunters and trained them on the dangers of mines. This education could be done by certain types of education and there is a Foundation of Croatia without mines that has worked a significant part of these educations.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34397	Mrs. Rada Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34398	Mr. Secretary of State, Croatia also has an additional risk of mine-freeness in areas of risk, e.g. from climate change, let's say from the flood. So in the '14s around Gunja was a great plan to demine such areas. I wonder if something like this is planned, and you joked that because of the winter, it remained out of the Lika-Senj County plan, but you mentioned exactly the county where we are now witnessing that it was torn apart by an earthquake, so I wonder if it is now that it has begun to plan what with this area affected by the earthquake, where it is certainly going to be done to clean up from the earthquake and we know for sure that the little country has moved to open up and the big holes, and I'm wondering if there's anything planned for Sisak-Moslavina County.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34399	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34400	Dear Madam MPs at this point you are still too early to tell you specifically, but in any case in the area of Sisak-Moslavina County because of these changes and lands that were very active will have to be revised anyway and see if it is possible to work anywhere. So it might have to be said to reorganize, and it's certainly possible for these and the drills and the movement of the ground to have thrown something to the surface. So it's going to take all those plans that were, and Sisak-Moslavina is one of the counties where there's still one of the major string problems, so there's going to be a few more years of work there. She wasn't now among the ones we're planning to be done for this year or next. So the existing plans are going to reshape a little bit more.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34401	Mrs. Mariana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34402	Mr. Secretary of State in the National Programme against Mine Action was for the period until 1 March 2019, here in this report says the ministry in the last quarter of '19 started drawing up a new draft, but we do not see at which stage a new draft was drawn up by 2026.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34403	Respected deputies of the obligation to demining space in our country as well as other countries that have a mine problem and which have mined mines stem from the Ottawa Convention where the UN and its countries and partners find ways to solve the mine problem. The Republic of Croatia had already extended the deadline once before and last extended it in early 2019 or in the first quarter of 2019, and we, as a state, needed to see what resources we have and what deadline we will seek for this extension. And then it was decided given the capacity to extend it, to seek an extension of 7 years to March, until 31 March 2026 it was confirmed to the authorities of the Ottawa Convention the UN and that deadline are now official. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34404	Mr. Gary Cappelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34405	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, so Croatia participated. having good cooperation, at least after the 2019 report with international entities, therefore, in mine action. Is this participation in this, apart from participation in the bodies themselves, therefore different conventions listed, whether participation in these conventions has brought some stronger position for Croatia and used in this segment?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34406	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34407	Dear Mr. Cappelli, international activity and international co-operation in this mine problem resolution has been continued. The Republic of Croatia also organizes a conference every year from several days to even a week, a few days where a partner country also has a problem and there is an exchange of experiences, our companies usually present their abilities, new technical solutions in the field of demining. It was even held last year, it was, usually held in April but due to the pandemic of the coronary virus was held in the first week of September of last year, and it was slightly smaller than usual, but it has successfully exchanged experiences for years and presented the Croatian demining model.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34408	Mr. Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34409	Thank you very much. First of all, he would give recognition to anyone involved in demining. We need to know when we're talking about this topic that 38 lives are lost on mines after the Homeland War and now they're still threatening you. The fact is that those who sowed mines obviously do not want to say where they are, and today they may be on high duties in Croatia or at local level. Of course, the schemes set up by the enemy soldiers would help us to, the enemy soldiers of the Serbians who were setting up, and many are likely in Croatia, and I repeat on high duties. Do you have any information on how many enemy soldiers have provided information and whether, in cooperation with diplomatic cooperation with Serbia, any agreement has been reached in principle and whether you have received schematics and, of course, have been participated in co-financing of what they have sowed evil? in Croatia. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34410	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34411	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative, rather than let me say with joy that the demining is currently being done in the area of Maljkova, in the area of Cetinska krajina, so I know that you are also pleased that the rest of Split-Dalmatia County will be there as soon as possible in the area according to Dinara and.../incomprehensible/... therefore, the upper flow of Cetina will be successfully brought to an end. We received information from the Republic of Serbia about, therefore, certain mining plans on this side can be satisfied with the cooperation, but on individual witnesses of demining participants, the mining of pardons in this area did not result in much benefit. Here, so we've got plans and some maps, we've got maps but no individual statements.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34412	Thank you. Mr. William Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34413	Thank you. Dear State Secretary Migrants pass through Croatia are certainly passing right next to and perhaps through mine suspected spaces. Do you keep a record at the ministry of these possible entry or passages through mine suspected spaces, how many such possible entrys, passages were there and whether there were any injuries or perhaps deaths of migrants because we can't see anything about it in the report?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34414	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34415	Well, the migrant route that's been established in the last few years since 2017, in the 18th, goes to areas that are still mine-suspecting where there's probably mines. Migrants are, therefore, marked, but the question is whether migrants can read even though there are signs, signs not only written, but they often travel in dark or poor weather conditions. Migrants suffered and fell from rocks in the area and drowning in rivers or lakes, these cases unfortunately are not a small number. In 2019, we haven't documented or recorded the loss of migrants from mines, but all these years here, I don't have any information, there may have been any casualties from that, but in 2019 there was no one involved in this debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34416	Thank you. Mrs. Ivana Posavec The guilty.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34417	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, I will attach myself to the information that you brought here today, which is that in 1.1.2021, 249 km2 remained undetermined or mine suspected in the Republic of Croatia. In the 2019 report, it is the number of 354 km from which 146 falls for Sisak-Moslavina County. Now I find it difficult to guess which number is relative to this new number, but the fact is that this is the largest part of a mine suspected area in the Sisak-Moslavina County area. Now, given that you said that we need about 400 million kuna per year to demining that with 39% of EU funds, I am interested in how you think to keep that percentage when in 2018, by abolishing the Croatian Mine Action and Merging Centre with the MUP, the MUP as a state institution lost its ability to participate in EU funds, and thus we had EUR 144 million to demining how we will now receive these funds and you yourself said that the reduction in 2017 was 62% of the share. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34418	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34419	We will continue to be respected MPs, so we will finance in part from the state budget, and that is inevitable and we cannot do so without it. I mentioned here from protective sources, and these are these common forest functions, so for forests and forest land, but we will continue to try not only in the area of demining but also in other areas that, let's say, fall under security. The MUP and the Government have generally applied and received significant funds from different European funds. So we continue to work on it and expect around 50% of the necessary demining funds to move from the European Fund. So, we're going to be building projects, we're going to be looking for projects by now. We've managed to get it. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34420	Mr. Rade Simičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34421	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary, we are unfortunately attacked by the Chetniks and the JNAs and the war consequences will remain permanent especially for those who have lost their loved ones. Not only did they burn our villages and cities, but the enemy left us with mine explosive devices, which, unfortunately, they're taking today's lives. My emotions are with all over Croatia and I look forward to you saying that soon Croatia will be demining, especially Zadar County, which was in fact a whole war area and I am glad for Velebit, our mythical mountain that you will soon demining it where I leave so often. Here, please, we've had 597 casualties, 203 fatalities, whether they're victims of war or not? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34422	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34423	These individuals are certainly victims of war, regardless of what some of them suffered 10 or 20 years after the official end of the war. Mines are insidious killers, and as we can see in other countries, people get hurt and decades later. Every day mines are found especially often in city centres and large European cities, meaning after the end of World War I and after the end of that period. We also have mines from that period especially in the sea and in the waters where they also occasionally occur by acting on the sea and it is also one of the problems that we will definitely have to solve. So these mines that came from past wars, but also from the Homeland War that ended in the Adriatic Sea. Here, Zadar County should be demined by the end of this year by the end of the 10th month, so one county, and certainly we are glad that it will be Velebit, you and I are from the underbelithic end, so that makes us even more happy, but I believe all of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34424	Thank you, no more replicas, please. Would the representatives of the board like to take the floor? Yeah. Here you go. What? What's the matter?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34425	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear state secretaries with his associates, colleagues and colleagues, the Defence Committee of the Croatian Parliament held at the 6th session on 18 February 2021 discussed a report on the implementation of the mine action plan and spent financial resources until 2019 submitted to the Croatian Parliament's president by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by an act of 7 January 2021. The Committee shall be based on Article 71. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the act in question as a parent working body. A representative of the promoter of the MUP was also quoted as saying that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, in accordance with the Mine Action Act, adopted a mine action plan for 2019 containing 5 basic objectives. The demining operations were carried out by legal persons who had the approval of the Ministry of Mine Action, the machine surface preparation and the work of examination of the surface areas of mine detection dogs. On 1 January 2019, the mine suspected area was 355.4 km2 extended within 55 cities and municipalities in the area of 8 counties and was marked with 12,280 warning signs of mine danger. The 2019 mine action plan plans to carry out demining, technical and general reconnaissance operations on the surface of 54.8 km2, demining operations for 39 km2, and technical reconnaissance operations, as well as an additional general reconnaissance for 15.8 km2. The total reduction in the mine suspected area in 2019 is 45.8 km2 of which in mine demining operations was reduced by 38.8 km2 and by carrying out a technical and general survey was reduced in 2019 instead of 15.8 km2 by 7 km2. The applicant's representative stated that insufficient personnel capacities of the ministry and the inability to use the machine preparation method on technical survey projects are the reason for the incomplete implementation of the 2019 plan due to the demanding field configuration. Following the demining operations carried out on 31 December 2019, the mine suspected area is 309,7 km2, situated in 53 cities and municipalities in 8 counties and marked with 11,540 tags. During the implementation of the demining in 2019, 5,278 pieces of mine explosives and 3,006 pieces of unexploded killings were found and destroyed. The financial plan for mine action in 2019 amounted to 40 million 976 thousand and was realised by 99.57%. The funds provided for demining from EU funds in 2019 amount to almost 39% of the total financial resources and resources provided. It has been pointed out that as many as 98.6% of mine suspected areas are forests and forest areas, 1.1% are agricultural areas, and 0.3% of mine suspected areas are categorized as other areas. Thanks to the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development's grants of €481,8 million, a little more than 61 km2 of mine suspected agricultural land was demining. Furthermore, the ministry's representative said that since '96 in the Republic of Croatia, about 600 people have been killed in mine accidents and incidents by 203 people. The last death of a civilian took place in February 2014 and the last death of children in 2004. During the same period, the death of 131 pyrotechnicians was reported with 38 pyrotechnics killed, and the latest death of pyrotechnicians was reported in October 2016. During 2019, two mine incidents occurred, but fortunately with no fatal consequences. As part of the report on the implementation of the demining plan of military sites or buildings for 2019, a representative of the defence ministry's proposings said the demining of military locations in 2019 was carried out by the Croatian Armed Forces Engineering Army's engineering regiment. During 2019, 8 demining tasks, 4 planned and 4 out-of-plan tasks were carried out. The planned deminings were carried out at 4 locations of which two tasks were completed in full. Military Colonel Marko Zivković Dance and military location Panos Velebit, and two were continued in 2020- that military polygon Eugen Kvaternik Slunj and Vojarna Colonel Mirko Vukusic Zemunik Donji. Four extra-planned demining tasks were carried out in the area of two military polygons and two military storage complexes. In the demining process 471.272 m2 was treated and 304,917 m2 was demined in which 12 pieces of anti-walking mines and 929 pieces of various unexploded killings were found, removed and destroyed. The total cost for the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia amounted to 2 million 418 thousand 316,15 kuna. The priority was the demining of mine suspected areas in Vojarni Colonel Marko Zivković Pleso and Vojarni Colonel Mirko Vukusic Zemunik Donji and on the military polygons Eugen Kvaternik and Gaženica. The debate, which followed, welcomed the sustainability of the institutions of the Republic of Croatia to demining the contaminated area and gave the opinion that the process of removing mine explosives and deadly funds, unexploded murderous assets, is of the permanent interest of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia in particular given the large number of people killed and killed. As regards the issues raised regarding the different amounts mentioned in the report planned for mine action in 2019, 400 million 976 thousand kuna compared to 360 million kuna, the applicant said that the original funds were planned in the amount of 360 million kuna, and after the completion of the integration process of the Croatian Mine Action Centre in the MUP, it was found that the pre-planned funds for private companies should be increased following which the plan was adjusted to 400 million kuna. After the clarification was made, a written statement was requested from the applicant's representative on the issue as well as on the data on the number of private companies engaged who have the power to work demining, demining prices, the number of staff employed and their professional and age structure. The debate also voiced its opinion that greater attention should be given to the issue of sea and coastal pollution. The contaminated area poses a danger to the Croatian population and threatens Croatia's image as a tourist and safe destination. Furthermore, the following fact that the National Mine Action Programme adopted for the period until 1 March 2019 does not fulfil the planned obligations under the Ottawa Convention and that the application for an extension of the deadline for completion of the obligations made by the Convention has been requested by the applicant to provide a written indication of the stage of the draft draft national plan, national programme, pardon, anti-minor action of the Republic of Croatia for the period 2020-2026. After the debate was held, the committee voted by a majority, 9 votes in favour, 1 vote abstention decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to accept the report on the implementation of the mine action plan and spent financial resources for 2019. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34426	I thank you too, Mr. Vidich. No one else wants to take this word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first is the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns should be spoken by Mr. Sacic, here is Pavliček. Here you go, Mr. Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34427	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues before us is a report that informs us of the great disaster that has hit the Republic of Croatia, the Croatian people and which is a lasting 30-year-old hair and carries people's lives, all of which has been caused by the great Serb Chetnic aggression against the Republic, and that is the beginning of all evil and we must be aware today when we are discussing in this warm home of this assembly what has begun. We are witnessing that, that the great Serb aggressor left behind 1200 km, 1250 km2 of polluted space, minefields. In these circumstances of the occupied part, the long-term existence of the occupied part of the so-called SAO Areas where victims, victims have been recorded even since the beginning of more than 2,000 wounded civilians, which the soldiers carried away. More than 516 people making a civilian what this soldier has been without human lives, and only in this period since '96. conditioned by peaceful reintegration 203 persons died, civilians. And all of this tells us that we have made a huge effort, a huge sacrifice that, with all the circumstances of post-war renewal, we are caught up in both action and demining because as a tourist country, we haven't had a chance, and today our chances are still a reduction in tourism, while at the same time our tourists are coming to the tree of the dead head and mines. Now, we've managed with the sacrifice of all these people, the rest of the souls of those who died, to reach a 250km figure as we have the opportunity to hear still a mine suspected area that should be demined by 2026, but as things stand, it depends on many conditions. We have spent so far since, so in this period this according to our sources today, Croatian sovereigns have made one analysis of this comparative, more than 6.5 billion so far has spent kuna from visible sources, which budgetally makes funds, but not entering different donations this evening and funds and which, which have also contributed to the non-institutional demining of targeted areas, destinations and even tourism what Velebita, which forests, which this agriculture is. And yet, according to this price that we have 250 km times 8.54 kuna, we have 2.5 billion kuna before us to tackle, how, 2.5 billion from this budget, how we see how much EU will give that question. Now, dear friends, we're all talking about a order of 8.5 billion kuna. Where is the Republic of Serbia in what we know, what we have in this report, what do we have from the government of the Republic of Serbia, in particular, what were the activities of the Republic of Serbia being involved in repatriating war damage, in damages to victims, in demining, in covering the cost? Zero. We have no discussion, we speak in principle that the Republic of Serbia supports this effort by the Otva Convention to demining the area. Is that enough? Is that enough for you to show up? So they are as followers of the Serbian army's large-scale aggression of the Republic of Serbia, so-called Republika Srpska Krajina armies of all other para-military Chetnic formations, they have sown these death fields in Croatia. And today the fine gentlemen have nothing to do with it, neither Vučić nor Dacic, nor Stefanovic, nor Vulin, no one is talking about it, but the worst of our Prime Minister Plenkovic unfortunately, neither our ministers nor our foreign ministers ask these questions. And they had to and should have. We had the opportunity to join the Republic of Serbia, not once were dear friends on the agenda. Therefore, we demand that as Croatian sovereigns, we require that the Republic of Serbia be placed on the agenda with the obligation as a follower to participate in the compensations and to participate in the reparation of damages and to actively contribute to minefield detection and to be certainly part of the demining of the Republic of Croatia because they have contributed most to it and they are the main culprits for what our people die in the Republic of Croatia today and 30 years afterwards. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34428	Mr. Pavlichek, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34429	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected state secretary, children on their way to school pass through the minefield, Dalmatia Zagora in 2009, Mladic died in a minefield in the Zavara forest near the small town of Dabar in 2010, New death in the Moscenica minefields in 2012, Death in the mine field experienced pyrotechnician and father of 6 children killed since the mine of 2016, these are just some of the news articles that warned us about the danger of minefields and the loss of our fellow citizens. 557 victims of landmines have been in the period since '91. '95. It means years during the Homeland War. Since '96. By 2021, another 600 of these 203 people were killed. So far, Croatia has spent just over 6 billion kunas to demining mine suspected areas, which is almost 3 Pelješka Bridges, which is, for example, 40 annual budgets of the city of Vukovar. Since 2015, the EU has partly co-financed the demining of mine suspected areas and some other governments have been involved in such things as the Swiss government, however, the main and responsible, which is the Republic of Serbia, these are its paramilitary troops, which have literally given zero kuna, zero lipa, zero kuna. And what did the Croatian government do about it? Has she ever opened this question, has she ever asked the Republic of Serbia to participate in co-financing mine suspected areas in the Republic of Serbia? Short and clear isn't. Has anyone from the Croatian government ever said that they will stop the further process of Serbia's entry into the EU until they pay off the war damage? Short and clear isn't. But what the government of the Republic of Croatia did. The government of the Republic of Croatia has these days sent a civil war-sacrifice bill into a parliamentary debate. The same law will enable just those who supported the great Serbian aggression, clapped on the Serbian army and paramilitary troops when they set these mines on Croatian soil, and today they are killed by the same mines to get benefits from the Republic of Croatia. And they and their families. I think every comment on this subject is too much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34430	It is now in front of the Club of Representatives of the Most, the honourable representative of Mr. Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34431	State secretaries, colleagues and colleagues, through the very replica, have pointed out these colleagues before me, and I will repeat once again that the triba gives recognition to those who demining, to those who give all the most valuable, many have lost their lives. Croatia is mined still, a tourist country. In my Cetina region alone, we have 27 kilometers of this square-squared area. As a crop of the great Serb aggressor in this area, people and lost their lives both in the Dračna area and in Lica, all 4 counties of this Dalmatian, Ličko-Senj County are all under mines as well as Slavonia, Sisak-Moslavska, Banovina, everything is mined. The seeds of evil that were heated in the great Serbian aggression by the Chetniks led by their apprentice from Seselj, and I believe that good relations with the Chetnik Vučić president of Serbia and I hope that on behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr Djakić will confirm these good relations in the coalition with Pupovac, we know that he has been admitted and I hope that he will damage this damage he has done, the seeds of evil, the seeds of death that still threaten Croatian children, Croatian tourists, all the citizens of the Republic. Whether Croatia was in the talks, we remember here was Vukic, he was coming, whether Croatia was even talking about this part that is very important that those who have sown seeds of evil, mine explosive means 30,000 only land mines at this point have in the area of the Republic of Croatia. I am familiar with these areas of Dalmatia, if anyone has asked these people to pay war damage, participate in demining, give to the death schemes that you sown in Croatia, no one at all. Shut up, even those who have sown or supported these Chetnik hordes are today high-ranking in both local authorities and state authorities, even being good gunmen are now state secretaries in ministries, for example. Who oversees Plitvica National Park where she was the first victim. Mile Topjia will explain well, he was quite precise at the time in the Osijek area there in Slavonia I wasn't at that battlefield, but I think the triba really takes this situation seriously. If we want good neighbourly relations and indeed the role of our neighbours, our people of the Serb national minority played a major role in the Homeland War. 10,000 people from Serbia's national minority participated in the units of HOS, Croatian military and police, and we should always stress that this is not hate, but this is the obligation of the Croatian state to the aggressor, to pay for war damage. And we don't have 400 million kunas per year to ensure that within 6 years, in order to solve this mined area of my Dinara, the Cetin area, the Croats, Vrlika, Drniš, the Sibenik hinterland, the Zadar hinterland, like, Slavonia, and why don't you take advantage of these good relations, we had a minister, a small Sloba adviser, Mrs. Buric, who is now highly positioned Daæa, to know who it is, so use those relations, that good cooperation, you've been shot, so you're together in the European People's Party with Vukic's Chetnik Party. So direct these good relations to deprive Croatia and to participate in this and, of course, to commend donors here. There are a lot of people who donated to demining these areas of 8 counties, 54 cities are still under mines. I know here until recently it was I who warned and truly military in Sinj i.e. The Kukuzovac range near Split at the exit from Sinj was mined and you did it again and I must say it is positive. However, until recently in front of Split, the door of Split near Sinj was a mined area. It's a huge threat, there's the biggest... civilian in the homeland war, a young man who's lost both legs is then mined outside the former army he's mined so-called mined outside the fence. So all the conventions were violated. Co-operation with Serbia that you have good, friendly use and Serbia has left this seed of evil and I think you need to direct it, direct all your diplomatic good relations with Vukic and those other trabants of Chetnic and Seselj's assistants who carried crates and said that Glina would never be Croatian, and he was very welcome here. I don't see any reason why you don't solve this problem in diplomatic relations and that the Honorable Secretary of State, the Republic of Serbia, pays what it's done with the war damage of $30 billion plus this. I don't see any reason. We have good relations here after the Storm in Backo Palanca was the president of the SDSS and the current Deputy Prime Minister and several years ago at the Chetnic Party, after the Storm, the magnificent Liberation Operations and those relations would use you to finally pay for this damage, precisely diplomacy has wiped out, Prime Minister Plenkovic can transfer it to the lower and in the same Pučka party, so that the most important sources of funding are that the sooner we settle as a tourist destination, and the diplomatic relations you have established. In the end, he would only say that Croatia recently declared, we as HS Dinara Nature Park, and much of it is glad to mention... The municipality of Croatia is a large part of that area under mines, about 17 km2 in the territory of the Croats, in the area of the Vrličko part of the Holy Mountain in the Homeland War is about 12, some km2 so I hope that this part of what is nice to clean up, the park is nature here we have a great source of Cetina, we have the river Cetina, but that Dinara is a symbol of victory. It is a sacred mountain where the Serbian occupier was basically defeated by conquering Dinara in the winter of '94. ... preparing in other operations until the storm itself and, of course, later in operations in BiH where we freed even from the great crime of Ratko Mladic in the Bihaqko Enclave, a greater slaughter than it was in Srebrenica. And many of our guys have left their lives for it, many mines have remained, and I believe that your good relations, diplomatically with the Wolf, are in the same way as the General Party so that it would be good for what they've sown to pay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34432	Now it's in front of the Center and Voice Representatives Club, Mrs. Mariana Puljak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34433	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I will highlight just a short and a few things from this report, so this is the report on the implementation of the Mine Action Plan for 2019. And what's a little unusual is that in 2021 we have a report for 2019. A little late, but we were too late to discuss this. Therefore, it is the obligation of the Republic of Croatia to demining all areas until March 2026. I note that Croatia is the only member of the EU that has mine suspected areas, and from the end of the war to the present day 203 people have died in mine incidents around 600 of which 203 died, including 38 pyrotechnicians. The proposal for this report drew up the MUP in co-operation with as many as 12 ministries. At the beginning of 2019. The government has launched a reduction and accession to the ministries of various agencies, institutions, offices, other state bodies and one of the largest mergers, so it took place in the Ministry of Protection and Rescue except for the part of the fire department, so the Croatian Mine Action Centre, the Mine Action Office, has joined the MUP. The pyrotechnicians then protested, protested that the new structure would compromise the process of demining and withdrawing eu funds, suggested that the Mine Action Centre be transformed into a centre of excellence and into an independent profitable organisation, a legal person who would sell acquired knowledge on the global market. There is an example in Sweden and Belgium, and we have far more experience than they do. So this is the first report in this new organization, this new structure. The document can be said to be reviewed with a lot of details, tables and table information. We have planned to see here the execution of demining operations, technical reconnaissance and additional general reconnaissance on the surface of 54.8 km2, but here in 2019 the total reduction is 45.8 km, and the rest is untamed in total 309 km. Here, a little bit if we want to bring our citizens closer to the size of this area of 309 km2, we can say that even bigger than some independent states is 40% higher than the surface of San Marino, Liechtenstein, slightly smaller than Malta, Malta has 316 km2 or an untamed area larger than the surface of Zagreb if we exclude Sesvete, Brezovica and Sub-Slemenic area. The 2019 plan of the general technical survey has not been met, only 44.5% has been achieved, and the failure of this justice plan is said to be the cause of a lack of personnel capacity due to the departure of 20 pyrotechnics in retirement, the outflow of former employees of this Mine Action Centre who have not become employees of the MUP and the schedule of pyrotechnicians to other jobs and the inability to use some machines on planned projects. So is this a failure to meet the plan one of these consequences of the other structure of this whole process? We see from the report that in 2019, we had two unfortunate cases of a civilian, a pyrotechnician. So what I can say is positive continues to be significant funding from eu funds, we even have a mobile app that can view the locations of all these surfaces. In the period also until 2019, the conditions for the full demining of agricultural land in several counties and the demining of most agricultural land in Lika-Senjska, Požega-Slavonska and Sisak-Moslavina County were met in cooperation with the Ministry of Agriculture and agencies. What I asked in the replica remains open to the end as a question, we may not have understood each other well, so the National Mine Action Programme was adopted for the period until 1 March 2019, 2018, the request for an extension until March 2026, the ministry began drawing up a draft proposal for a national programme in 2019, but here it is in 2021 years, is the draft programme or the strategy in which the document was drawn up and is it finished or at least close to the end? Here's a question for the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34434	You, too. Mrs. Rada Boric will speak in front of the Green-Left bloc representative club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34435	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Secretary of State and other colleagues and colleagues. And here I am going to do a lot like a colleague, and it's going to be like these teachers doing it, so maybe I'll do some things again, and it's not bad to hear it twice. By March 2026. Croatia should be completely cleared from mines and mine dangers. Can we achieve this goal or will we look for a third delay Croatia is still one of the world's most uncleaned mines, it is one of only 11 countries with more than 100 km2 polluted mines. Croatia certainly also considers itself a mine safe country in the sense that there is safety and transport infrastructure and tourist destinations and areas of reconstruction and area around objects of different cultural objects etc. and all this is true, however, Croatia is the only member with mine suspected areas. We regret that we have not already cleaned our territory during the pre-accession negotiations, and today, the territory of which is certainly the EU from mines. It was in our interest, and then maybe it was from pre-accession funds to do it. By applying for an extension of the demining deadline, we have pledged to reduce the mine suspected area by 50 km2 annually, which is also a very ambitious plan and a very demanding job, but mathematics shows that by '26. the uncleaned will still remain according to this ambitious plan enough to keep a large number of square kilometers and a little worried if we can make some extra delays. We must be aware that this threat and not taking on commitments under the Ottawa Convention is not in Croatian interest. The national programme, as stated by counterpart Puljak mine action, was adopted by 1 March 2019. Since, by that date, we have not made the planned fulfilment of all those obligations under the Convention, so the removal of all known minefields has been extended to us on 30 November 2018, the second requirement for extending the deadline for these commitments, however, which concerns whether we will really be able to clear our territory by '26 because, in the extension of the deadline, it stands exactly what is our obligation and what really concerns us if this is the case and we should have written in the report such that the ministry in the last quarter of 2019 began to draw up a draft proposal for the National Mine Action Programme of the Republic of Croatia for the period of '20. By '26, then the '20s passed, so '20s passed and we still don't have a draft proposal not to speak naturally about public debate and at all accepting such a national programme. We can't be late if we're already late. Because if we're already late we're late in another case, and that's what we're talking about when we're talking about demining priorities, so it's said so long-term. The permanent presence of mines threatens safety and prevents normal life, anti-walking, anti-arming mines and explosive war remains, including a case-by-case ammunition poses a significant threat to social economic development, in particular in rural areas. We know that out of the total mine suspected areas of the forest, about 70%, agricultural about 20%, and I don't know 14% are scissors and debris. Why, for example, are we. We have now used the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development in total amounting to 481,8 million kuna and we have certainly demined more than 61 square kilometers of suspected agricultural land, why we have not fought within the EU that there is a special demining fund, not that the funds are being spent from the agricultural fund. And that is the question exactly and ours I would say diplomacy and our influence, so we should have integrated the problem of mine into EU policies in a way that the EU works more proactively on demining through development cooperation mechanisms, and therefore not from the agricultural fund. There is also this chapter of development cooperation with the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, and this could be the case. I needed to find the funds. We're sorry, of course, as a green-left club, and there's been a privatisation of the demining sector. We think it's not good for the privatisation of the security system to happen, that's not some good direction. security institutions. This has also proved to be true in this sector, and we all remember, and we have witnessed the strikes of demining workers, all of our colleagues have been saying how many pyrotechnics have died, so 203, what happened to some multiplication of private demining firms in which people were naturally strike unsatisfactory working conditions, so what happened in other sectors also happened in this. People who have put and put their lives on the line every day can't be put into a situation where there are no adequate labour rights and working conditions, I hope that this system of some now may be, some things will be avoided. What may also need to be pointed out and well in the report stands by the MUP as an executive agency in 2019 continued the implementation of the software component of the programme, which started with the implementation of public procurement of mine victims services and members of their families and research into the quality of life of those people who have suffered. I wonder if it really started in the '19th of that research, I hope in the '20s, we're actually waiting for the results of that research. It is vital to see how and how socioeconomic conditions and activities are and how we have foreseen how to help victims, mine victims. And it was really important then to educate, I think that a colleague of Grba Bujevic spoke when we talked about protection, civil protection she was just talking about the demining education, so she said how much education was held, it's really important and it should also be Mr. Secretary of State pointed out, we should work and still work however far behind the war and the consequences of the war and some kind of education. And once again, I'm just going to say that I'm really interested in this plan because we saw that according to Sisak-Moslavina County, it wasn't planned, and I think that now it's time and this is our proposal, it's always said whether the opposition has no proposals, our proposal as it was made about the risk of demining to also create a plan that will be affected by the demining in the area which is physically changing due to change and very important knowledge will be done, cleaning up and agricultural fields will be done, of course and roads and what hasn't been cleaned up. We think maybe it's a priority now to see everything together with the story of the restoration if we want to revitalise that end in the right sense, that end must be safe from mines. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34436	You, too. It is now up to Mr. Josip Djakic, who will speak in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34437	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues, and here we have a report on the payment of mine action and spent financial resources for 2019. And it tells us clearly about what it's done. But here I would remember both the times and the phases that were conducted before all this when the demining took place during the Homeland War through the troops of the Croatian Army, the Croatian Special Police until '96. That's how it was done, and then later, in HS, the first law that's bound to demining is passed. Only one state-owned company acted during that period, it is "AKD MUNGOS" and it started demining Croatian territory, '98. When they approached the adoption of the first amendments and complemented them, a number of other companies that had acquired the approval of the MUP had been equipped and had acquired sufficient knowledge to demine our area. Now we have what we have, we have... pyrotechnics, 42 companies working on demining in the Republic, we have 40 machines through them that are mostly domestic production, from domestic companies, we have dogs trackers working together with them. All this together improves the work, status and law that was passed in 2015 and the novels that were adopted in 2016 and 18th certainly contributed to this mine action which clearly states that 2019. There were 355.4 km2 under mine suspected area and here are 55 municipalities and cities, 8 counties and more which are led as mine suspected area and which should be observed and cleaned from the leftover mines of the Homeland War, i.e. most of those who have committed aggression to the Republic of Croatia. All this says is that even the funds spent are justifiable funds and today when colleagues are talking about who needs to make up for never hearing, and of course those who won't hear what every law that comes or every report from it is making up a political scene. I must remind them that only two topics were current about the visit of Vukic to Croatia, one of which was missing, and the other was at the prime minister's war damage. Only these two topics were relevant then, where we came from and how we ended up I will say that in the pre-accession negotiations and with the MVEP with current employees, but also with Croatian defenders, we have come to the conclusion that we have installed five special criteria and criteria to the Republic of Serbia in their negotiations so that they have to be met, and among them are compensations for the victims. So I think I only remind those who forget or who deliberately twist the thesis and want to spread the truth. We see through this report that there are 309,7 km2, but now it's much less, actually, if we were to consider that we could have done 2000. ...but it's something less and it's about 2026. will be believed to end the story of combating mine-explosive assets, NUS and I think that through that time we will find enough and resources, fund aid countries that want to help us and we have enough capacity in the Republic of Croatia to demine all remaining destinations. I would also refer to "Natura" which is mentioned in the report, and we support that, as is said in the area of Osijek-Baranja County, demining operations according to the project "Naturavita" for which it was planned to be carried out in 2018, '19th and '20th were achieved significantly more and significantly before it was planned. The reason for this is a good time, all those who worked in the field served a very good time and were able to do a good job. So we can say it was found in 2019. on this area 4,971 anti-walking mines, anti-aircraft mines and NUS. I would refer to the project "Naturavita" carried out within the boundaries of the protected area including Nature Park "Kopački rit", a special zoo as well as the Regional Park "Mura-Drava" and reminding that the project "Naturavita" provides for the restoration and protection of forests and forest land protected and "Natura 2000", areas in the Danube-Drava region and the revitalisation of abandoned and war-degraded forest areas protected by the ecological network "Natura 2000". However, the demining of 5.97 km2 forests and forest land in the area of the Nature Park “Kopački rit” and 19.37 km2 in the Regional Park “Mura-Drava” was required to be accessed. In particular, a large part of the project area was as a direct consequence of the Homeland War, polluted with mines and mine-explosive resources from the war that prevented approaches and preparation and the implementation of systematic and long-term sustainable management of this area in the area of Osijek-Baranja County. It was precisely this fact that demining this area was a necessary prerequisite for their further sustainable development. During the conduct of quality control tasks which has always been quite questionable, it was found that at seven... and it was not all well done so they had to repeat these works. I also remember some of the previous discussions when some of our acquaintances had some firms so they also didn't do their jobs well, there was a lot of meat and.../incomprehensible/... in those premises and they had to do theirs again as well as in this report as mentioned. Unfortunately, it's a job that's very responsible and dangerous, it has to be done in a way that happens again. We have two mine incidents in 2019 that are not fatal, and that's the only thing we can say is that it's good, that no one died and paid for his work with his life. The restoration of the agricultural, production potential affected by these disasters and events in the Homeland War must be actively managed by the land that serves further its purpose and which we can now use without a problem. This included the Ministry, the Agency for Payments in Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, and a mine-polluted area in these counties was achieved with the objectives of demining agricultural land such as in Brod-Posavia, Karlovac, Osijek, Split-Dalmatia, Sibenik-Knin and Zadar County. Most of the agricultural land is also demined in Lika-Senjska, Požega and Sisak-Moslavina County. So through all these stages and through the entire programme which has 5 important points how to work, but with the help of the Croatian army which is working actively today. We could hear through the reports that I am not repeating it now, the Croatian Army has made it clear to its engineering units and its trained personnel also demining a vast part of the surfaces that are today useful and which can be served as well as polygons intended for training soldiers and troops and for joint federal activities. Finally, the structures, structural reform of the mine action system in the first year of application resulted in an increase in the efficiency of the system, faster exchange and processing of information, a centralised system of data pooling particularly in crisis situations, and faster and more high quality inter-resorial and inter-resorial coordination. This has contributed to a total reduction in the costs of the system for operational affairs, pooling of professional staff, faster and more detailed exchanges of professional knowledge, experiences or raising levels. the effectiveness of most system components dealing with mine action. [[Intruder: Time.]] I therefore thank this report and the HDZ Club supports such reports and hopes that the plan will be implemented by 2026. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34438	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Agent Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34439	Thank you very much, Your Honor. A colleague, Djakic, injured Article 238. The Rules of Procedure because he told a series of falses that Chetnik Vukic was in Croatia and that they were talking about the missing. Not a single missing person brought a list, and he has them in Belgrade, and we know that you and I both know for a fact that the issue was forbidden when he was chickening around Croatia, the great Serb and the Chetnik that he didn't dare ask when he was going to go to Croatia's Clay, when he was going to Sorry, I asked him. [[Intruder: Time.]] It was forbidden to question that Chetnik.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34440	This was a replica, it wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you get a warning. Representative Djakic, here is the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34441	Thank you very much, Vice President. Article 238, repulsor Bulj, deliberately sparks my words because he wasn't here, so he probably didn't hear right. The truth is next, I'll repeat, only two topics were put on the table. One is missing, and the other is war damage. They were missing at the president's office, working damage with the Prime Minister. As early as 2006 The first debate on this and the record was conducted by Granic on war damage, so [[Intruder: Time.]] to tell us by heart. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34442	Representative Bulj, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34443	counterpart Djakic broke Article 238, said I didn't hear what he said, he said exactly what he just said, but everything he said was incorrect. Vukic came here to conduct a large Serb policy because he did not apologize for the gripping of Serbs mainly when he urged them that Glina would never be Croatia, but that there was nothing left but Serbia's and great Serbian politics spread throughout Croatia. None of the missing have been solved, and he's got all of them. to one, nor was the war damage solved. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34444	So that's a second warning for you, dear Representative Bulju. The next debate is on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, the esteemed representative Franco Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34445	... all Croatian citizens, regardless of color, support the project Croatia without mines. [[Specially enabled.]] Enough to show the real danger of mines is to look at data on the victims of mine-explosive assets. Since '96. 597 people were killed by 2019, of which 203 were fatal. In the same period, 131 pyrotechnics were killed, 38 of which were fatal. And I certainly give thanks on behalf of the SDP and my personal name to all those who risk their lives daily in mine fields. For calling a pyrotechnician, we're free to say that it's not just a calling, it's a calling. For many years now, demining has been going on, and somehow in recent years it has stabilized on cleaning surfaces of about 40 to 50 km2 per year. At this rate, we have now reached about 300 km2 of mine suspected area and it is not unrealistic for the demining business to be completed by 2026, so we have committed ourselves through the accession of the Ottawa Convention. In doing so, it should be noted that the business of demining 50km2 annually is a very large bite for a country like Croatia. According to existing indicators, we can fill it out, but what my colleagues have missed talking about today is that the report on implementation of the Mine Action Plan and spent financial resources for 2019 when we read it well is actually a report on the work of an independent Croatian Mine Action Centre. Therefore, the Croatian Mine Action Centre, in its organisational form, existed until the Government of the Republic of Croatia on amendments and additions to the Regulation on the internal organisation of the MUP of 8 March 2019. A new set-up of the Civil Protection Directorate is set up in the Ministry of Civil Protection and then the Government's conclusion of 2 August 2019 on the reduction of the number of agencies, institutes, funds, institutes, trusts, companies and other legal entities with public authority which has been abolished by the State Administration for Protection and Rescue, the National Institute for Radiological and Nuclear Security, the Agency for Spaces at risk of explosive atmospheres, the Croatian Mine Action Centre and the Office for Mine Action, and the offices and responsibilities are taken over by the Civil Protection Directorate of the MUP. From then on, the public’s objections have not been quieted down, so we can say freely on two or three basic thesises. The first is, pyrotechnicians are warning all the time that it is a reckless decision and that its status and rich experience brings money from European funds, stressing that Croatia is the only EU member state in which mine suspected and mined areas exist. Secondly, the abolition of the legal personality of the Croatian Mine Action Centre will lead to the threat of withdrawing funds from EU funds since any institutional and organisational changes have an extremely negative impact on the implementation of already agreed projects. The Croatian Mine Action Centre has been extremely successful in attracting European money and has so far attracted 144m euros from different funds for demining, and this year about 40 per cent of total money comes from eu funds. The abolition of the organisational form of the Croatian Mine Action Centre calls into question the respect of the international conventions binding on the Republic of Croatia. It is about the Ottawa Convention of one of the most important humanitarian and security conventions which all countries signatories to destroy the stock of anti-walking mines and clear minefields within 10 years with the possibility of extending the deadline. This convention of the Republic of Croatia was obliged to clear the country from mines to the end of 2019, but here is how the State Secretary and also known information, the Republic of Croatia requested an extension of that period until 2026 and then we remembered to change the organisational form of something that was successful. These are just basic thesis, and there is also an objection that we are jeopardizing the knowledge of demining, that, with the development and work of the Croatian Mine Action Centre, we have developed a branch of entrepreneurship and companies that are able to create complex and demanding demining machines, that such machines are sought in the world, and their development is based on their own experience. And finally, if pyrotechnicians in the new division weren't protected people through unions looking for full-time insurance so that they could have regular issues, to create an exit strategy for younger pyrotechnicians after the end of the demining in 2026 through additional schooling or employment as well as an increase in pensions so that retired pyrotechnicians could live with dignity. The time will show whether these objections are justified and the results of the abolition of the organisational form and accession of the Croatian Mine Action Centre to the Civil Protection Directorate under the MUP will in principle be presented in the 2020 report. This isn't it now, it's the previous Mine Action Center. What is before the Civil Protection Directorate and the current organisational form of the Croatian Mine Action Centre is that about 50 km2 must be demined annually in order to remain within what we have signed, that about 300 km2 is still mine suspected, that about 30,000 mines are still in Croatia and that the Lika-Sen County is the most polluted mine. So far, we have spent about 800m euros for demining, and we will need some extra 350m to 400m euros for some unofficial estimates. Until then, until we see in Parliament a report on the implementation of the Mine Action Plan and spent funds for 2020. Until we see the proposal of the National Mine Action Programme of the Republic of Croatia for the period 2020-2026, and now as we know in 2021, with all well-meaning we in the SDP think that the above issues are justified and that the decision to change the organisational form of CROMAC should not be broken over our knees. I say report for 2020. will show both the flaws and virtues of the present structure, and this report is nevertheless more the result of the formation of the previous CROMAC. Also what we mentioned today and on the board, and this is the need to in some subsequent period, but very soon we include both the problem and the mine-explosive resources in the sea on the islands and I believe that it will already be contained in the next plans that will come before this House. So we advertise as a safe country we have a tourist economy, we have strong tourism, we can't afford the situation of getting something out of the sea. These are mine explosives that have remained from all wars, I would even say least from Homeland, and much more from World War II, World War I, etc. The SDP will still support the report on the implementation of the mine action plan and spent financial resources for 2019, but I say that real report on the work of the current Croatian Mine Action Centre under the directorate of Civil Protection under the management of the Ministry of Interior will be only in 2000 in the Report 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34446	Next debate on behalf of the House of Homeland Movement Representatives Club, Honorable Vice-President of the Miroslav Škoro Assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34447	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with his associates, and here are the remains of the remains. It's a little late in the hour, but let me, despite my colleagues being very argumentative and very professional and specifically speaking about this report to tell you a few impressions of the Homeland Movement, I hope I won't be too long, so we can go towards the end of today's work day. What I think is indicative is that today is February 17th, and we discussed the 2019 Report. I think that in this regard we are a little late, and on the other hand the public works, it must be known that on today's committee, so the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security also discussed this report, today this committee was at 13 o'clock, not 5 days ago, 7 days ago not even yesterday, today. It's a chance for you to organize weddings and have a bride, even arrange a term for all the enics or the matrimonials, only you may have music, but you haven't asked your parents, who would say anything about it, nor have you invited anyone, because we live in an era of epidemiological difficulty, we live in a time of earthquake, and I never know what can happen, and it's never clear to me that such courage exists in the ruling days that the Committee's sitting on the same day and they're sure it's going to be read on that committee, that there's going to be a quorum at all, so in the same day there's a debate, which is, of course, how the subject is interesting and ideological, and politics is ideology, that's what makes us different. We're all talking about corruption, we're all talking about crime, we're all talking about the truth, we're talking about justice, but we're still ideologically different, so there are all these clubs, and that's why today the Homeland Movement was against this report. He was also a club of sovereigns, he was also a club of MOST, the SDP Club and the HDZ Club, and we are objecting to the coalition with the SDP supported this report, which is very indicative of many things, because what someone calls a mine incident, that is, losing hands, losing legs, losing body parts, losing lives, and in 2019 only two mine incidents, just two. It's not just two mine incidents, it's two human lives that are at risk. Says a colleague just six hundred people died in the war, over two hundred deaths. It's not a mine incident, it's someone's life. Maybe the mine incident was statistical, and my favorite book I read when I was studying statistics was a little thin book, not a fat one from which I took the exam, a little one called "How to Lie with Statistics". A very interesting book, if you have time, find it and read it, because when you read this Report, so I'm talking to a recipient, let's say so, then there are certain data, but the fact is that 30 years after the war we discuss it in the Croatian Parliament. We have a late report for 2019 and everything is expressed in square kilometers, because then it doesn't sound so bad. We had it at the beginning of 2019. 350 square kilometers, and at the end of 2019 we had 45 kilometers less square. And there were two mine incidents. One square mile, respected colleagues and colleagues, that's what? 1,000 times 1,000 meters. One hectare is 10,000 square meters, one square mile is a million, one million square meters. It was just before one of your colleagues here from HDZ, I think you were when I chaired, talking about an incident in Italy when it was polluted 1,000 acres. Scandalously large 1,000 acres. We've got 30,000 acres, still, not one hectare, not ten, but to make it sound nicer, that's 300 square miles. How to lie to statistics. It's true. But it sounds a lot less. And 30,000 acres, that's a hell of a lot, and then when you look a little bit here on that report, I've tried a little hard, I've been wondering how much demining a square mile, I'm sorry. So, at today's session, fellow Sacic said it's about 8 kuna, but there's also 12 kuna. So far, in this troubled country, we have mined squares worth over 8 billion kunas, we. And now there's another 30,000 squares waiting for us, or, we don't know, we'll see, we didn't get the 2020 report, we'll probably get that in 2022. So it may have fallen down again, but it is a terrible amount of money Croatia has to allocate again in order to demine its area, we did not mine it. So by this calculation, if it's an average of 10 kuna, I don't know if it's with or without VAT, but it's another 2 billion kuna, that's what this report tells us, and that's what the Homeland Movement disagrees with. We disagree with the fact that let's make a misfulfilment happen in 2019. It was supposed to be 50 km2 not 50 but 45 of it is 7 km2 with supervision, and 38 km2 really demined by the threat of life and people who do this and these people have every honour, but there is not enough money. When we adopted the budget last year, then we had one situation to reduce the item by OKFŠ, which is the money that is very important in demining. It fell as much as I remember from 150 million kunas to some 70, 80 million kunas fell in half, but it was due to local choices that later hunters jumped from 21 million to 70 million kunas in front of us. I'm a member of the Hunting Union, so then I get from them and a calendar once a year a particularly expensive event and I get one publication every few months very expensive and I deal with it and I know how much it costs and I still pay 400 kuna a year to be a member. So, behind all that, ladies and gentlemen, there's still money and there's always a question of who's paying for it, who's mined it, who's sown over 1,000 km2 mines and who's paying for that demining. So today I asked at this session and the esteemed secretary of state, we have as much as I see in Croatia in HS in the Croatian government very good relations with people whose members were part of this system that was shining those mines, not only were they part of that system but today, when something doesn't like the man comes to read the electric current, the man throws a bomb at them. It's a language spoken. And I asked if it was possible to make contact with these people? Is it possible that in the People's Party a swallowed tag, good afternoon, where you're in one of the languages we know to ask if you have any plans, we're having mine incidents. They do not happen in Pozarevec, in Belgrade, in Šid they happen in Croatia. Ask your coalition partners if it is possible to come to some plans that mine incidents are no longer happening and that so much money is spent on something we could use for much more useful purposes. We won't support the report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34448	Next is the individual debate, the distinguished representative Ivana Posavec Krivec.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34449	Thank you, dear vice president of HS. Secretary of State with his associates. This Decision shall be published in the EEA Section of, and in the EEA Supplement to, the Official Journal of the European Union. It is an opportunity to remember a little bit what mine areas mean for life, for the lives of citizens. In fact, we will all probably agree with the the thesis that mine pollution is a major economic, humanitarian, but also a general problem facing the Republic of Croatia, I will freely say for too many years, faced entirely since the end of the war. The mined areas across Croatia were actually areas that were vital to people's lives, for economic activities ranging practically from our eastern border in the Danube to the far south in the Dubrovnik area. In this way, the work of many activities, primarily those carried out in the open space, agriculture, forestry, infrastructure work, could not be implemented enough quality measures to protect against floods, fire protection, the use of many areas that are interesting for hunters, for hikers, for tourists, therefore for people who live outside. But we know that many gardens, roads, railways, waterways, forests, etc. were mined. According to some data the Croatian authorities had after the end of the war and received from the UN, it was discussed that in the area of the Republic of Croatia, even one quarter of our area was suspected. We know that the Republic of Croatia has slightly less than 56 million km2. And why am I saying all this together and counting? So because I would like to place ourselves from this post-war Croatian position in the position of the current Sisak-Moslavina County after the earthquake, and unfortunately still a very, very polluted area of mines. On the other hand, there are also a large number of tables marking these mine areas, reportedly there are as many as 17,000 in Croatia if they are not destroyed. I wonder if these tables that mark mine areas will be further placed in this area of Sisak-Moslavina and the border area where we expect and record migrant movements to further protect these people? And first of all, I said all of this to draw attention to something else. 2018 I argue without analysis and arguments has been abolished by CROMAC, the continuation of its activities is also planned and planning in the MUP. So in some ways we gave up people who had created CROMAC for 20 years, who had paved the foundation of the new industry in Croatia, in the Croatian demining industry, for protection equipment, etc., people who selflessly sacrificed themselves for cleaning the territory from the lagging mines. In addition, by abolishing the existence of the Croatian Mine Action Centre, I think that there are no assumptions for the withdrawal of funds from the European Union from the Funds, since in this case the Ministry of Interior, as a state institution, has taken office and has no possibility of participating in all competitions in which the Croatian Mine Action Centre has held. By then, the Croatian Mine Action Centre has withdrawn more than 144m euros in funds. This is an indicator, for example, that in 2017, what State Secretary Katic was talking about, the share of European funds amounted to as much as 62% in the total funds spent that year on demining, so that, for example, the year we are discussing, in 2019, that percentage fell to only 39%. I believe that the next Report will show that this percentage is even lower precisely for the reason behind which I stand, which is that the MUP cannot withdraw the same amount of funds as the Croatian Mine Action Centre could. And at the very end, these 20 seconds. Dear Mr. Katic, I kindly ask you to tell me what priorities will be in mine demining in the mine-restricted areas of Sisak-Moslavina County, since you yourself have found that they are currently not in the process of demining the area, and we know that both tectonic and other soil movements have occurred and that it is a threat to people who have lost their homes and agricultural land even greater. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34450	We have two replicas, wait. Here is the first distinguished representative, Franco Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34451	Thank you, Vice President. So, fellow Members, not only is there a smaller flow of European funds but what is visible from the report it is that the planned funds, after joining with the Civil Protection Directorate, planned funds worth 360 million kuna have suddenly gone to 400 million kuna. So, for these 40 million kunas, we also asked for the difference to be delivered to us, where and how it was spent, which is what companies are, and which ultimately led to that difference, this is visible in the Report, page 3, and I think page 21.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34452	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34453	The dynamics of demining depend largely on financial resources and certainly raises the question as we deal with ourselves and form what bodies we will have in the Republic of Croatia to actually lose on resources and on the structure. If you remember, the demining in the Republic of Croatia started there somewhere around 2003 or 4th year through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, I think then also European integration with mine-mining advisers. Later we had a Croatian Mine Action Centre and the Government's Mine Action Office we had diplomaticly great activity at the Donor Conferences and great funds came towards Croatia, especially at later times when, unfortunately, on the other hand, we were the only country in its area of lagging mines and space to be demined. So, behind the Croatian Mine Action Centre remains a difficult topic about the widows of Mungos, which unfortunately we do not have time for today.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34454	Next replica, distinguished representative Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34455	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, you've made a very nice point at a few of the problems that follow us. It is a question of further processes in the earthquake affected areas, a question of these migrant routes, a table that is a question of whether they will not and will not be lost now and you have pointed out well the problem of this, the possibilities or inability to withdraw EU money. The report shows that 13 subsequent mine-explosive assets were received in 2019, 7 of which were found in those areas already under review. So I'm afraid with all that you've said and a lack of personnel capacity and a question of money, that maybe all these victims will be more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34456	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34457	Unfortunately, we always have to think positively and we have to believe in our institutions and people who do it. And I thank, indeed, all of them who have been on the ground in very difficult conditions and who have put their lives, in a way, in order to discover all these lagging mines and ensure a normal economic and social life. Mistakes can occur, especially when they are not directly cleaning the ground on the ground itself, but when using some other methods. There must be cases like this everywhere in the world. We are not unique in this case, but in no way should we give up on people who have a profession, we should not give up on their knowledge and experience, it is irreplaceable, and unfortunately, in 2018 Croatia just gave up on very many people who have had 20 years of experience on this field and have not, that they have not assured them that they are world-renowned and that they are actually selling their knowledge and experience as an export Croatian product.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34458	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Angelko Strick.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34459	Thank you. Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, state secretaries with associates, colleagues and colleagues. We are discussing the problem of demining because of the brutal Serb-cetical aggression on the Republic of Croatia. According to data presented by the Croatian Army's Chief Staff in September 1995, about 3 million anti-aircraft and mines were placed in Croatia, and the territory was polluted with 100,000 unexploded grenades. Or mines and cannon missiles polluted 300 thousand hectares of land, all of which still needed to be examined by about a million acres of land contaminated by unexploded missiles. The process took place during three phases, i.e. the first phase took place during the Homeland War itself when troops of the Croatian Army and police were bearers of demining. Then we have a second period from 96th to the first half of 98th, when for the first time the Mine Action Act was passed, and this job was entrusted to the state-owned company AKD Mungos d.o.o., which did so on a non-competition basis. The third period from 98th to today, when the job is possible, is allocated to companies that are registered to carry out demining operations. For the first time, the Institute of Professional Control of Mine Action was also established. From 98th to today, over six billion kunas have been spent on demining. On December 31st, 2019, we still had about 309,7 km of mine suspected area that spread to 53 cities and municipalities in 8 counties or if we looked at it by county it turns out that 44.3 km of square is still under mines. In Ličko-Senjska 109, Osijek-Baranjska 32.4, Požeško-Slavonska 14,6, Split-Dalmatia 19.3, Sisak-Moslavinaska 53.4, Sisakko-Moslavinaska 15.7 and Sibenik-Kninsko 20.4 respectively, 5288 pieces of mine explosives 3006 pieces of unexploded killing funds were found and destroyed in 2019 alone. All of this data shows how serious this is. Therefore, given that there is already a lot of data now related to demining, I hope that by 2026 we will have completed this demining project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34460	The next individual debate is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34461	State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues, this is a very important issue of security for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I would once again say that we need this together means in the perspective to support what has already been achieved. It means Croatia will be demined, no more mines. But it's so much sown. Unfortunately, we do not have schemes, obviously we do not have people who are obviously living in Croatia who have been on the side of aggressors who might be able to help. However, I would talk here about people from the Mine Action Centre who are now attached to the entity within the ministry. What's important is that these people have the same conditions as they did at the Mine Action Centre, so I've been confirmed. I hope that what is being coughed up in some way will find financial resources from the EU. Of course, we also expect to include the Republic of Serbia as an aggressor. It would really be the turn of all together because in these areas people and Croatian nationalities and Serbian nationalities live, and indeed all under the same conditions can all be killed and therefore should be more committed to these diplomatic meetings with the Republic of Serbia. Of course there's still a large area of mine here, especially this part of it means from Dalmatia when we leave in all the county. A little less in Neretva County down Dubrovnik and that part where the war area was. But in Split-Dalmatia, Sibenik-Knin and Zadar County we still have a large part of the area under mines. And of course we expect that the current goal and this shift will be timed by 2026 that the Republic of Croatia will be demined and that finally after the war, which means from 91 to today means since the end we have since the beginning of the war, 30 years have passed. So... There will be 30 years since the end of the Homeland War that we will have Croatia without it the seeds of evil left over for those criminals who have committed terrible crimes and who still threaten in these areas. [[You don't understand.]] It is very important that the system continues to function, the Mine Action Centre is no longer in that formulation. He is attached to the Ministry of the Interior and I expect that means it will continue to work in a much better order. I see in this report that the goals, the plans in that period, and that this area is still about 300 square miles away that we're going to find strength, I think about huge money. I'm expressing dissatisfaction, of course, in this part of it, which is not demining. And with this I mentioned examples up to a few years ago, two, three years ago, I was in the Assembly and I was saying, say, a position... It's... [[You don't understand.]] on the exit from Sinj towards Split means... [[You don't understand.]] from Split, Sinj was mined. [[You don't understand.]] So that part is solved and there are some things to be said and commended. This part... Now according to Dinara up that area where we have it and... [[You don't understand.]] I said somewhere about 27 square kilometers there are only in the area of the Cetina region there are no civilians and this part which we can publicly say although it is Sibenik-Knin County and more that I expect that in this area, it is now nature park so that it will be even more open to tourists and more desirable to do everything in this area, maximum everything to get rid of mines. [[You don't understand.]] In Croatia they remain in other counties both in Lica and Banovina and Slavonia and are still threatening, so I expect them to be required as a representative of the area as soon as possible. The funds are huge, not a small source, I hope the Ministry will now withdraw funds from EU funds, part that will be provided in the budget because indeed areas, here only when I mention Velebit or Nature Park a new Dinar, that this is a significant tourist potential that can attract the survival of people in that area, of course it can also attract certain people who can be threatened. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34462	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Stipan Sashlin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34463	Here, as can be seen from this Report, it is practically a total reduction in the mine suspected area in 2019 for some 46 km square km, demining about 39 kilometers, and by technical reconnaissance it is also a reduced area by about 7 square kilometers. It's from 54.8 planned, or 55 km square, somewhere around 84% of the plan's implementation. If we add to this another 60 km square kilometers demining in 2020, which is not the subject of this Report, but we still come to a surface of some 250 square kilometers which are currently under mines in the Republic of Croatia. Based on this, that is, this dynamic of about 50 square kilometers a year, if it continues with sheep dynamics in the next period until 2016, we can be optimistic that Croatia will be cleared from mines. What is certainly encouraging and positive and good, and especially should be pointed out, is the fact that practically 99, almost 100% of the area, agricultural areas in the Republic of Croatia are demining and what has a significant, or very positive impact on agricultural production, on everything that binds to agriculture, with rural areas, and also, if we take the fact that, by the settlements, or gardens, etc., all deminingly, this can encourage us, since all of this land, some 250 square kilometers mainly refers to difficult accessible areas, i.e. forest land. Since in Sisak-Moslavina County, Osijek-Baranja County was one of the most contaminated counties and was practically the largest number of mine-explosive assets, I will specifically refer to the demining plan relating to Osijek-Baranja County, that is, the area of eastern Slavonia. In 2018, the fact was launched in this area by a demining project, i.e. the restoration and protection of forests and forest land in the protection of one and Natura 2000 areas throughout this Danube-Drav region. In fact, it is a strategic project aimed at demining and rebuilding, i.e. protecting not only the forest and forest of that land but also the water resources, meaning rebuilding, or rebuilding, the infrastructure due to its war activities and all that in this area enables normal functioning, i.e. management of that area. The total value of NaturaVite is about 377 million kuna, with 85% practically financed from the Cohesion Fund, or somewhere around 315 million kuna, remaining funds from the Republic of Croatia's budget. The projected demining area is about 25 square kilometers away, with about 6km of square reference to the Park of Nature Kopački rit, and about 19km of it refers to the area covered by the Mura-Drava region park. It is an area which is practically a flood area for the most part, i.e. an induction belt of the Drava and Danube River, practically from the Hungarian border downstream to Osijek and this was a line of demarcation during the Homeland War, meaning from our units and occupation units in that area. The fact that much more was made in 2019 than was planned for 2019 for reasons because in 2019 there were favourable conditions, there were practically no floods and there could be easy demining. Otherwise, in that area after each flood there is a considerable difficulty in finding Because it's just that those mines go down and it's harder to find them. [[attack of Ante Sanader: Time.]] That way we should hurry up and find her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34464	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Rade Simičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34465	I would like to thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed secretary of state with his associates, this few colleagues and colleagues who have left us. Here is the report on the implementation of the mine action plan and the spending of financial resources for 2019. I must commend this report to the Secretary of State not because I like you but because the report is written properly, it's obvious, clearly. But I have an observation when this went to copy what you've emboldened then it's actually left dark, so it can't be read so I'm asking you for a future that if it's possible to avoid it, then we can read it all. Unfortunately, we have been attacked by the Chetniks and the Yugoslav People's Army and the war consequences will remain permanent in Croatia especially for those who lost their loved ones in this war. In addition to burned houses and destroyed villages and cities, the enemy left us with countless mine explosive devices, and yet with the aim of hurting or killing a Croatian man. The war ended 26 years ago and we restored the destroyed houses, burned villages and cities but unfortunately we still haven't been able to clear the terrain of mine-explosive devices. It is actually terrible that after so many years, after 26 years we still have mines that threaten the Croatian man daily, and then you can think of how much enmity this enemy has put on those mines precisely with the goal of doing as much damage to the Croatian state as possible. I want to thank all the pyrotechnics here who exhibit their lives every day entering minefields to clear our country of mines. Unfortunately, there are also situations that occur with tragic consequences where in peace the best people of the Chetnik mines suffer. After saying so many years of mine fighting in the Republic of Croatia since 1996, unfortunately 597 people have been killed, 203 of which have died. It is also seen from the report that in 2019 a total reduction of 54.8 km2, and unfortunately there are 356 mine suspected areas of 356 km2. Of the total area, as many as 98.6 mine suspected areas are forests and forest areas, while 1.1% remain agricultural areas and 0.3% of areas that belong to the rest of the category. Since the rest of the forest surfaces are certainly a permanent danger to all mountain and forest lovers and only when it is cleaned and the last mine we will be free and able to use the beauty and graces that our homeland has. My emotions are directed towards the whole of Croatia, and in a special way towards Zadar County, which was almost full of mine-explosive devices, especially our sacred mountain Velebit, where today the hero of the Homeland War Damir Tomljenović Gavran died. The report also shows how much has been invested in cleaning the ground for mine action in 2019 spent 401, planned 401 million kuna, and spent nearly 400 million, and 99.5%, respectively. During 2019, military facilities were cleaned, which is commendable. On this occasion I want to thank the Ministry, I want to thank all the pyrotechnicians, I want to thank the donors who allow us to clear the terrain of mine-explosive devices and I believe that what you planned to do in 2026 will be free of mines for the Croatian state. Thank you. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34466	One replica, the esteemed representative Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34467	Thank you very much. My dear colleague, you've actually expressed your gratitude to the pyrotechnics. I believe we all share your opinion. They really expose their health and their lives to this difficult task of demining. The fact is also that there is a staff drain of former Croatian Mine Action Centre employees. The report itself stated nicely that insufficient personnel capacity remains. People are unhappy, working under difficult conditions, and the question is what kind of pay is. Do you have any idea how these people are receiving pyrotechnics working on demining? And frankly, I'd like to see these plans come to fruition by 2026. But somehow I am afraid that with these personnel capacities and those problems that we have cited, therefore the inability to withdraw EU funds potential. The question is whether or not we're gonna make it happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34468	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34469	I thank my colleagues for asking. Yeah, unfortunately, I don't know exactly how much knowledge I have, but I have friends who are pyrotechnics. They are not adequately paid for the work they do and should certainly do everything possible to get paid for what they do because daily entering a minefield where you are not sure whether or not you will come out of it leaves the psychological consequences of a man. And as such, they certainly cannot long behave in such a function, i.e. to clean minefields. Here I am, and I appeal to the Ministry to make sure that these people are actually properly paid. And I believe that we will still be able to clear Croatia from mines and that we will finally be free of all that our enemies have left for us in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-17-0.u34470	Here's what we've completely exhausted the debate with. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
