ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u42820	Thank you very much. Dear President of the Croatian National Assembly, dear colleagues and colleagues. I often talk about Slavonia, and today I will talk about Lower Miholjc one of seven cities in Osijek-Baranja County. It is a pitoresque Slavonian town known for its adornment by two castles, but also for our football player Domagoj See what took the first football steps right in Lower Miholjc. There are other famous Miholjcans there, but here in the light of the upcoming European football championship, I chose him because it seemed kind of appropriate. In Lower Miholjc, there is also one of three biogas plants in the East of a foreign Russian owner. You'd think it would be a pleasure to live in the Lower Miholjc because it takes care of everything in harmony with the green policies that always sound so good. We wouldn't be what we are if what sounds very good on the first we weren't able to turn into the nightmare of the resident of the Lower Miholj. The first thing you'll notice when you arrive in Lower Miholjac is a strange, unpleasant smell that's spreading all over the city and I experienced it on Saturday when I was there, and that's what moved me to write this free speech. There are no farms nearby because cattle farming has been on its knees in Croatia for a long time, imports at dumped prices have done their part, although many countries have placed an embargo on the import of pork when swine fever occurred in Germany, Croatia has not done so and the excess pork has ended up among other things and on our market. Then how come there's an unpleasant smell in the entire Lower Miholic? It may be from biogas plants, but it shouldn't be because the process in which rape is used and manure is used doesn't have such characteristics, or maybe it's used something else and goes straight to biogas plants without an additional pre-treatment that collects the whole process. It is no secret that waste management is a lucrative business, the amount of biowaste in mixed municipal waste in Croatia is moving around 65%, only a small amount of 9% is collected separately, and this should be driven in a compost or in the worst case biogas plant. The problem is that most of the biowaste is not separated but mixed with other municipal waste. Of the existing 30-ac biogas plants, not all are interested in biowaste due to additional pre-treatment costs, but if the part is ignored then the calculation is very clear and very motivated. And where does the largest amount of bio-response occur? Right here in Zagreb. And how does that problem work out? By sending it to biogas plants, including Lower Miholjac, which has a license R3 which means that they can only use clean biowaste, but it's not coming, but it's the one that's mixed up for municipal waste. State institutions did their part, solutions were issued, inspectors' opinions were issued in December of last year, records were issued, but biowaste continues to arrive in Donji Miholjac, and the smell is spreading through the city. To make everything even more bizarre through the premium system exactly the citizens of Lower Miholjec finance this energy I will call it a green perversion, precisely to encourage biogas plants on farms that will have input raw materials as well as throughout Europe, we use them for waste management which is neither ecologically nor economically acceptable. I therefore call on the new Mayor of the City of Zagreb, who is proud of his green policy commitment to the same speed that he named his deputy head of the Civil Protection Staff and annuled the harmful contract concerning the rental of personal vehicles, abolishing this harmful practice that deprives citizens of Lower Miholjc of the right to a clean environment and a healthy life. Let him prove his commitment to green policies that will not be harmful to us Slavs. We don't need garbage from Zagreb in Slavonia and Baranja. Where it came from, he'll take care of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u43010	We are going to a debate of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club, a respected colleague of Dalia Oreskovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u43011	Honored Chairman, fellow MPs and MPs. In the media this morning it echoed news that there were arrests, i.e. three judges were detained from the court in Osijek, Darko Krušlin, Zvonko Vekic and Ante Kvesic. There is still official confirmation, though. Among those indicted by a fugitive from the Croatian judiciary for taking bribes is the judge of the County Court in Osijek who convicted him. One of the prominent Croatian lawyers commented that this is big news for Croatia and the judiciary and that it is an alarm that indicates that something needs to be changed. Yes, we really need to take this as an alarm when our fugitive Croatian judiciary is making key moves in reforming our judiciary. However, except for the rain, but not the Croatian judiciary, it is a shower to all of us, to the Croatian representatives who are sitting here, I must understand that it is not the Croatian judiciary that we need to change. What needs to be changed should change us, the parliamentary representatives, or at least our parliamentary majority. So, the reform of the judiciary, which is important these days, is because we are discussing the election of a new president or new Supreme Court president, is not dependent on one person, whatever person it is, and so is the President or President of the Supreme Court, because the reform of the judiciary does not belong in any way to his or her partial work and jurisdiction. If we want to reform the judiciary, then we must start with the reform of the institutions that do so, and especially those in charge of the internal control system. Starting with their work and competences and so on. And from where it should actually begin, it should start from the State Judiciary Council. To begin with, I think it's high time we removed the DSV from the assembly, and so we removed the State's Attorney's Council by two parliamentary deputies sitting there. Their role is not professional, their role is not competent, parliamentary representatives should neither participate in the appointment of judges, let alone in the conduct of those internal controls and so on the process of verifying property cards because they are simply not qualified or competent. But why isn't it being carried out? Well, because actually there's no systematic control of the property cards of judges and state lawyers at all. It's an idea that exists in public space and a dialogue to deceive the public and it comes down to a mere administration, not the identification of the origin of the property, and whether it comes from some illegal sources. That's the fact, and that information's getting away from it. And why is he running away? So because the establishment of effective control of the property cards of judicial employees, so judges and state attorneys would also raise the question of how to verify the property of our officials, and it does not really exist despite the fact that there are information tools that could make this control effective, meaningful and that lead to concrete results. And why do I claim that the main problem of the Croatian judiciary is here among us, among the MPs? Among other things, because the leaders of the Croatian judiciary report once a year, we have a chance to read the report of the chief state attorney and the report of the Supreme Court president once a year. And for years we have been able to read literally copied passages from reports that were filed a year earlier. And among other things, in these reports, he writes about the one who knows, wants to, and can read what needs to be changed in the laws themselves in order to prosecute the perpetrators of criminal offences, and in particular the serious corruptive crimes, would be effective, starting with the pre-exclusive age of the insurance measure, and to all other procedural pins that actually condemn any major corruption case in advance. What have we done in all these years, how during the term of office does the HS, and so do the previous ones? Absolutely nothing. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Among other things, it says we haven't been able to I've got six more seconds. [[Agreement: Thank you colleagues Oreshković]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u43012	No, you've run out of six seconds, so don't argue because you're wrong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u43013	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u43082	We are going to another debate, Green-Left Block Representative Club, respected colleague Bojan Glavasevic. A colleague of Glavasevic does not seem to lose his right to speak, so we are going to a third debate, a Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns, a respected colleague, Marijan Pavliček. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u43083	Dear Presidential Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, a few days ago in the town of Vukovar, we unfortunately had another incident on a national basis where at 7:30 a.m. in a bakery, a 13-year-old child was attacked. The reason for this physical attack on the child is that it is the same child on his protective mask had nothing more than a Croatian coat of arms. In Croatia's Vukovar in the city of the hero as many refer to him, in the city where he is in '91. 2717 people gave their lives to create a Croatian state, 30 years later a child wearing a Croatian coat of arms on a protective mask was physically attacked. And you can imagine how the Croats feel after this in the city of Vukovar, wondering if they can bear the characteristics of their own state in the city of the hero. And this is one of the worst incidents after a peaceful reintegration because this is not a classic conflict among fans, this is not even a fight among high school students who have been verbally conflicting for weeks this is a pure example of a hate attack on a national basis. And many political actors have condemned this attack between them and members of the Serb community which is commendable, but SDSS President Milorad Pupovac has simultaneously accused me of this incident and many others of the current city government, accusing me personally of so-called. political pyromanism. You, Mr. Pupovac, are a political pyromaniac because your political option is currently feeding on such incidents because otherwise you would not have the purpose of existence because you are doing with your policy the greatest evil primarily to your community, because you are under the already-exposed protection of national minorities maintaining the status of qou and segregating your own national minority in the city of Vukovar and the national mixed environments. What is the real cause of these conflicts? That's what I was talking about a few months ago. The real cause lies right here in the laws passed by the Croatian Parliament, in the state pedagogical standard of primary and secondary education that allowed the segregation of children on a national basis. Namely, all children of Serb nationality in the town of Vukovar attend primarily A model education that is total separation. And you today have 20 generations in the city of Vukovar that have been raised in the same city in one parallel world, which have a diametrically opposite view of the Homeland War, which have a diametrically opposite view of the creation of the Croatian state, which have a diametrically opposite view of, say, 18.11.In '91, for one city he was occupied, freed for others. A few days ago, a colleague of mine in the Borov municipality took this photograph. This is a photo of you at Borovo Elementary School. Third grade children were photographed by Vukovar Water Tower, children attending classes in Serbian and Cyrillic letters according to A model and interesting with all wounds, the wartime water tower at the head is up Serbian flag. This is the system of education in the Republic of Croatia according to model A. And this model advocates Milorad Pupovac. If we're a serious country, we can't have two different history, we can't have two different truths. There's only one official history and there's only one official truth. And so right here I believe before the summer break we will launch an initiative to change the state pedagogical standard of primary and secondary education to allow the children of national minorities to go along with the majority people and then we will not have such conflicts in the City of Vukovar, then we will not have such incidents and then we will not have a different view of our past. And for Mr. Pupovec, I only have one message, which is this one, against the separation of children in primary and secondary schools. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u43176	Let's go to the last debate, dear colleague Siniša Hajdaš Doncic on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u43177	Thank you very much. Dear President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. So today is actually marked by two fundamental or crucial problems of Croatian society, so this is a lack of transparency and in fact a lack of a certain vision. One results from a budget rebalance proposal where I actually "show cosmetic" of course we will have to raise the expenditure of 9 billion kuna, of course it will probably increase revenue by 3 billion kuna, which will result in a 4.3% deficit. But why does it serve? So that only serves to resuscitate most of the debt in health care. And on the other hand, that budget rebalance doesn't follow one, and I'm going to say at least a developmental vision that would try to answer questions about how to solve problems in the future. So what happens in all developed,... democracies, but countries, so what we need to be aware of is that spending in the health system will grow and always grow. I don't see that answer as I don't see the answer to the second item, and that's okay, so we compensate for the costs incurred during the covid, the costs they had both natural and legal persons, but I still don't see any further. Will it simply stop at some point and we will have far-reaching consequences of the covid crisis, and yet on the other hand, some document that should show Croatia's development story will pass? Now what do we got? We have definitely exclusive relying on eu funds, and if countries want to rely on eu funds they should have strong institutions, they should not have corruption and should have a fast and efficient administration. And we have today another event that refutes us, we have an event that Zdravko Mamic is the main reformer of Croatian justice, so the person who fled from Croatia to BiH is the de facto major reformer of Croatian justice. So he encouraged processes that were definitely corrupt, so they escalated today in Osijek that indicated that our judiciary was not only corrupt but that I was going back to that story where we had weak institutions. And you of the 1990s, if you want to develop society in a liberal democracy where everyone can participate in decision-making, left and centre and right, which is actually one wealth of society, you actually have to strengthen institutions that are not happening in Croatia. So, we're still in one of those phases of the post-prime transition society that hasn't answered the fundamental question, even I like that quote, but now I'm not going to say what the idea author of that quote is, how to get to Denmark as someone, I don't know what the idea of saying so from a state that has what, just arranged institutions nothing else. And this is our key task, so in today's budget rebalancing which will be more or less cosmetic, and on the other hand, what happens to our grief and our shame to the Croatian judiciary. Here's so much from me, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u43271	We are now going to discuss the HDZ Club of Representatives, a respected colleague, Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u43272	Thank you very much. Mr. President of HS, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's in the spirit of the verdict handed down at The Hague's Tribunal to Balkan blood type Ratko Mladic, we would like to say that we welcome this final verdict to which this executioner has been sentenced for life. But we can also stress that we are not satisfied that we are not covered and all the misdemeanors committed in the Republic of Croatia are that he was responsible for this in due time, that this high-ranking JNA officer was then stopped after the massacre in Skabrnja, probably not Srebrenica, probably not all these misdemeanors that were committed throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia as well as BiH. What we want to point out is that such atrocities, such crimes, such genocide, such persecution, such torture, such insolence by one trained JNA officer, and the tops of the political commanders' headquarters nowhere in the indictment. Nowhere to mention that they were involved in a criminal enterprise, that the Yugoslav army was under Milosevic's command, that this executioner had also been convicted, but here we are talking today about Ratko Mladic, who was confirmed by this life sentence of prison, but Skabrnje is gone. There are no other parts, no exiles and emigrations from Banja Luka, from Prijedor, from Foca, from all municipalities where both Croatian and Muslim populations were killed. This is what needs to be continued regardless of the life sentence clearly said, there are those who have been responsible, who have kept him hidden in Serbia for years. There are those who today condemn The Hague court as a political court. However, international justice made it clear that the executioner had come to an end. The rightful verdict is such that we can comment on it and say, we welcome it, that it is finally defined that genocide has been committed in BiH over 8 and some thousands of Muslims found in Srebrenica in the environment. Yes, that there were failures and forces of the UN that did not protect that people. Yeah, that's what happened, and we can never forget it, and we can never hide it. We still need to insist that both Skabrnja and all other places and every victim that these JNA forces led with any commander or commander committed, be processed, then the victims will be satisfactoried. Then they will be at peace with all those who innocently died in an attempt to create Greater Serbia. We have defended Croatia, freed Croatia, and it must be clear to all. The Hague tribunal has freed our generals of justice and facts because Croatia was attacked by the aggression of JNA, the domestic rebel Chetniks and all their servants, and it must also be stated every time and every time. The Balkan executioner is really determined for Bosnia, but not for all places in Bosnia. There are still those as well as all those in Croatia. Neither Klenovnik nor Klavnik nor Kotor Varoš nor Novi Grad, Pale, Prijedor, Rogatica, Sanski Most, Sokolovac, Trnovo, Vlasenica and this terrible persecution, massacre and genocide in Srebrenica. We ask that the judicial authorities continue to be on the line of their mission. And to keep putting on the burden [[Intruder: Thank you.]] All the misdemeanors that have been committed [[Intruder: Thank you, colleague Djakić.]] by anyone. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u43366	Let's move on. Now it's the Club of Representatives of the Most, the esteemed colleague of the Grumo, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u43367	Here's a good day for everyone. My colleagues and colleagues, so I will also look back on arresting judges in Osijek, but I disagree with counterpart Oreskovic that the key problem is Croatian politics. Croatian politics is certainly one of the problems, but this particular case has been denied by colleagues Oreshkovic, it is not a politician but a powerful man, a football manager who bribed his money, he himself admitted it, Judge, which shows that it is not a problem in the Croatian judiciary and in the Croatian institutions, the very influence of politics. These two politicians, meaning counterpart Bauk, and I don't know who from the ruling coalition sitting in the DSV can't influence decisions because judges have a two-thirds majority. So even the representatives of the academic community almost have no influence. I see things completely different from you. I was at the trial yesterday for the Supreme Court's president. - Mrs. Crescent. Zlata Djurdjevic brought up many things that I agree with, but she mentioned that all the problems of the Croatian judiciary began in the 1990s with political staffing. I see problems a little further, so I see them in the former regime, I see them in the failure of the transition of Croatian society, I see them in the consequences of this system, it's bureaucratism, lack of initiative, anti-intellectualism, egalitarian syndrome that is present everywhere. We have in principle some kind of independence of the Croatian judiciary and Croatian institutions, at least externally, but we do not have an internal one. As long as a manager can bribe judges, it shows that there is no integrity in the Croatian judiciary, and there is no integrity in this high home. Don't think I'm defending politics here and those of us sitting here. But if you move, then two DSV politicians will not solve any problems for the Croatian judiciary. And why is that? Because judges act like one closed caste, because they have to be some sort of control element. The more orderly states than Croatia have an even greater influence on the policy of electing judges and much better stand with the independence of the judiciary. This shows that what you offer as a recipe is not a solution for the Croatian judiciary and for Croatian society. The solution is to end with a party or parties, the solution is to end up with each of us looking for some kind of connection, when he needs a doctor to get a relationship, when I need some kind of service looking for a man in a position. These are the problems, this one should talk about, and until we understand this country and society will not move forward. The things you listed, the property cards of the judges certainly, transparency is one of the tools in the fight against corruption. Same as shooting a debate? We bought equipment, we gave a million and 15 thousand EUR in 2013, do all discussions in Croatia take place? No, we don't have adequate equipment. So we talk about some kind of reform all the time, and nothing's going on. We install different applications, they don't work. We're talking about digitization, it's not really happening. These are the problems of the Croatian judiciary and Croatian society, and until we all figure it out we won't, we won't go forward. This is a shame, so three judges have arrested us today in Osijek, this is a disgrace. Well in Osijek, so this Osijek, there's problems everywhere, but obviously things need to be lit up there, of which the academic community itself means we know that HDZ's in the vans were driving for Ph.D.s in Osijek, and the vans are boarding from Dalmatia, buses are getting a doctorate in Osijek, they're problems. And here I can only, as president of the Anti-Corruption Council, announce two important things, on Friday I invite you all as parliamentary representatives to have a public hearing of the foreign minister for corruption in our embassies, and next week because of the report of corruption at the Wine Town Hospital, Diana Zadravec comes to a public hearing Tuesday at 10.00 p.m., you are also invited to ask questions. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u43483	Now we're going to move on to a standoff or a free speech. The first is the club of representatives of HSLS and Reformists, respected counterpart Darko Klasic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u43484	Thank you, well-respected President of the Assembly. Good morning, everyone. Recently, Defence Minister Mario Banozic was on the eve of the 30th anniversary of the celebration. The draft HV again set out the topic of activation of mandatory military service. In Europe, 15 countries have maintained their obligation to serve the military deadline, but they differ from country to country. Part of the state has a very liberal policy, while a very small part of the state implements a policy of calling all military officials. The nearest Austria has a general military obligation, but also the right to object. According to the 2018 data, the Commission considers that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, About 46,000 young Austrians served 56% and the civil service 44%. The military deadline lasts for 6 months and should be noted that they are at the 2013 referendum. The Austrians refused to lift the general military obligation. The country often mentioned in the context of the mandatory military deadline is Switzerland. She has an army that is fully based on mass military training and professional members of command structures. The Swiss are in the 2013 referendum. Most of the votes refused to lift the military obligation. The military deadline lasts for 5 months, and other young citizens who do not serve the army pay 3% of the year's salary by 37. my life. All Nordic states have maintained their obligation to serve the military term. In Finland, the largest number of recruits, the military deadline lasts 165 days, and for conscientious objectors serving the army without weapons, it lasts 247 days. In recent years, the percentage of young Finns who served the army has been 80%. Sweden has an obligation to serve the military deadline, but something else is designed. The military obligation was abolished in 2010, but because of the tightening of relations with Russia, it was restored in 2018. As a result, armed forces are made up of professionals, and military obligations are only used to fill the reserve system. All young men and girls fill in the mandatory questionnaire of the Recruitment Agency, and on the basis of the survey and professional skills, the military chooses the people who suit it. The military deadline lasts from 4 to 12 months. The Norwegian model is even more liberal, although formally there is a legal obligation to serve the army it is exclusively filled with volunteers. Birth equality is absolute, so all young men and girls who turn 18 are. They're filling out a questionnaire from the recruiting committee. Serving the army lasts for 6 to 12 months, and the basic features of the Norwegian system are a privilege for young people who serve the army. One of them is an advantage in public service employment. The Norwegian Armed Forces have more candidates on a regular basis than places, as all those serving the military deadline have numerous benefits. And Denmark has kept the military service obligation. The military term for the largest number of recruits lasts for 4 months, so about 4,000 young people each year serve a military deadline of more than 90% registered voluntarily. As far as the Republic of Croatia is concerned, it must be noted that the military service obligation has never been abolished but has only been suspended by the October 2007 parliament decision and implemented since 1 January 2008. The current Defence Act provides for mandatory military service over a period of 6 months. Instead of the general obligation, voluntary service was introduced as the basis and filling of the active professional composition. On that day, the security assessment was that the environment was stable and there were no external threats. The security environment in the world and Europe has changed significantly in recent years, and it is also a fact that given the very small number of inhabitants, the growing population and the drastically large eviction, especially young bases for increasing the reserve of the armed forces is getting worse. One issue of return to military service is the cost, problems of professional staff that need to be taken care of and trained because the Croatian Army currently does not have enough people to do the job in quality. The return of compulsory military service of 6 months would significantly increase the reserve of armed forces and significantly contribute to raising the security capacity of the state that is necessary, given that it affects, among others, tourism that fills more than 20% of GDP with the grey zone. This issue literally concerns all inhabitants of Croatia from potential handbooks, their parents, brothers and sisters, to higher education institutions that will have to adapt to the fact that part of the students will not start studying immediately. I therefore believe, with all these reasons, that the final decision requires a public debate and that this issue should be implemented by a national referendum as soon as possible in order to establish a long-term plan for the development of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and the defence of the Republic of Croatia. In fact, the country should firstly decide with the citizens' referendum on abolition and retaining existing constitutional provisions on general military training. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50470	I thank everyone who participated in the debate. We will now, in accordance with the conclusion of the Committee on Finance and the state budget proposed under Article. 247. Rules of Procedure to conduct a joint discussion on the following three points, so: - Proposal for amendments to the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2021 and projection for 2022 and 2023 with amendments and additions to the financial plans of extra-accounters for 2021 and projection for 2022 and 2023, with an explanation for: - Croatian Waters, - Croatian Roads, - Centre for Restructure and Sale, - Environmental Protection and Energy Efficiency, - HZZO, - Croatian Highways, - HZ Travel Transport and - HZ Infrastructure - Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2021, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 145 and - Proposal for an annual report on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2022. So, we will vote on whether we will conduct a united debate in accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Is there anyone against this proposal? If he doesn't, then there's no need to vote. We agreed, so we're going to have a united debate on the three points. Once again, this is the proposal to amend and supplement the National Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2021 and the projection for 2022 and 2023, the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2021. I Proposal for an annual report on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2022. The proposer of acts shall be the Government of the Republic of Croatia under Article. 85. Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, Art. 39. Budget law and Art. 211. The Rules of Procedure of the HS and pursuant to Art. 109. Budget law. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The adoption of the State budget shall be subject to the provisions of Articles 211 and 212. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, the Committee on Agriculture and the Committee on the Economy. I remind you of Article 38. The budget law whereby all amendments and additions adopted by the Assembly through amendments to the proposed state budget and projections must not exceed the amount of the permitted lack of state budget and projection. In the course of the debate on the proposal for a state budget and projections, the amendments proposed to increase budgetary expenditure and expenditure above the amounts set out in the proposal for a state budget and projection may be accepted provided that other expenditure and expenditure are reduced simultaneously in a specific part of the budget. The amendments referred to above shall not be on the burden of the budgetary stock or on the burden of additional borrowing. With this in mind, I warn that only those amendments drawn up under the Budget Law will be referred to the parliamentary procedure. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure set out that it cannot be voted on the amendments submitted and the budget as a whole before they expire 3 days from the date of the debate. I would now like to ask the Government's representative to further explain the proposal to amend and supplement the state budget and other acts listed above, I welcome the respected Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Zdravko Maric. Here you go, Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50471	Thank you very much. Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, here I will try to cover all points of course in due time, as we have said, unitedly, but of course the greatest emphasis on the rebalancing of the state budget for this year and projections for the next two years. So, one brief introduction. This government has in some way used your parliamentary representatives in the last term to rebalance the budget it proposes at the end of the year, which was usually a technical rebalancing, a rebalancing that would determine more revenue than we planned, because every year we had a better one, I would say budget execution, and expenditures according to the plan, and thus a better result. 4 years in a row significantly better result, 3 years in a row even budget surplus and of course cumulative 12, almost 12 percentage points in gross domestic product, reducing the share of public debt or public debt as such. Covid, of course, is turning that trend around. Last year, after Covid's outbreak there already in the 5th month, we had a budget rebalance and as such it was exclusively related to an assumption which unfortunately proved true, which is that, due to Covid's closure of the economy, there will be a significant drop in income, that there will be a great need for individual expenditures mainly for those relating to health care. And at that point we talked about respirators, we talked about disinfectants, we talked about masking and gloves and equipment, and then we talked about tests, and today we're talking about vaccines. At the same time, of course, at the time of the rebalancing, it was very much envisaged that we would have to finance and we want to finance the natural preservation of jobs in the economy, with today's day over 11 billion, so we've already broken into that net amount of 11 billion kuna, which has so far been paid for job conservation measures, fixed costs and reduced working hours. This year, this rebalancing isn't just about Covid, it's primarily about health issues. So, in the 4th month, we reached an agreement with the representatives of the wholesaler to prevent the delivery of medicinal products, medical and in-house materials and supplies for normal functioning of the health system and, above all, the treatment of patients. So far, we have been paid in accordance with the transfer agreement for the 4th and 5th months and we can still cover part of the 6th with the law of the envisaged possibilities. The budget law provides and provides for the possibility of redistributing up to 5% of what we have done all this time, but we have now exhausted these legal opportunities and it is simply necessary to propose to the Croatian Assembly the rebalancing of the budget so that we can continue to implement these transfers, but of course not just the part relating to health care. Now I will elaborate or present what are the key changes that we propose in this budget rebalancing. I will start from the macro-frame itself, but a few weeks ago, the Croatian government adopted and sent the usual document to Brussels at the end of the 4th month as part of our dialogue on the European semester. It's a document called the Convergence Program. It is a document that has a lot of problems, I would say, and we have already gotten used to it as a rule of the Croatian Parliament, or two committees, for finance and for European affairs discussed it unitedly, all these years. And in it, we gave a macro and fiscal framework for the next three years as far as this rebalancing is concerned, we're totally sticking to it. So the macroeconomic projections were not even able to change slightly more significantly over the past few weeks. So the growth assessment for this year is 5.2% of GDP. The original assessment was 5%, however, not some significant correction or any major change compared to this year, but what is important to say is that in this assessment 5.2 we have incorporated the effects of the National Recovery and Resistance Programme. We expect that this year, somewhere around 13% of the total envelope of EUR 3.6 billion, we will withdraw about EUR 800 million in advance to the budget, but of course we will also start using according to the timetable and all those measures that are recorded in the National Recovery and Resistance Programme. So this year the NPOO effect is estimated at some 0.3 percentage points. The next two years, the effect on GDP is much more significant and it is on average about 1.5 percentage points each year. But what we see in the government is an even more important effect of this same NPOO, so the National Resistance and Recovery Programme on growth potential, therefore at the rate of potential growth. We talked about this several times in the Croatian Parliament, it is in the translation of how the more efficient and productive use of existing production factors is. So either we talk about work or, and human capital or capital in general. And that's what's actually in a way and a taste, and it should be a taste of the National Recovery Programme on one side that looks more at the short term, but also resistance that will provide and should provide some kind of medium-term and, even longer than that, sustainability and resilience of our economy to any future crisis. That's what economists very often say, everyone agrees that the next crisis will also come, we don't know in which area and we don't know when, but ultimately, you have to be prepared for it. The future side of the budget for this year is changing by around 3 billion kuna, increasing, most of which refers to those sources that do not affect the overall result of the budget, so first of all, UN funds, but also their own dedicated revenues. The part that affects the result of the budget, therefore, tax revenues and contributions are increasing by around 700 million kuna. As usual, when we have projections, when we have some of the latest available data, we are doing an estimate of the revenue side of the budget, so it is really based on everything we have, yesterday we had a quality debate on the parent board of finance and the state budget, and then I explained to individual representatives, i.e. members of the Committee, among other things, that the Ministry of Finance is always, as far as the revenue side is concerned, planning realistically. So it's a base scenario, with us always keeping one dose of this, and some kind of conservative approach that ultimately, in these times, I think it's more than good because it needs to be prepared to continue in view of all the uncertainty and circumstances in which we are, above all, related to the epidemic and pandemic, if necessary, of course, even in one way or another. And then we come to a cost-effective side of the budget which is actually the key to this rebalance, what follows us both in the rest of the year and in the years to come. We see Croatia already this year returning to that path of reduced public debt in GDP, so that the effect of Covid would be one-time, quite large, but one-time. However, for the baseline scenario with which we are dating, among other things, in front of you, as was the case there at the beginning of the term of office in 2016 when the budget and the rebalancing for that year, i.e. after the temporary financing, suggested that the key was the expenditure side of the budget. The expenditure side of the budget remains well under the impression and, of course, under Covid's influence, we're talking about the health care section again, we're talking about the economic part, but there are some other segments that I would now count here, or elaborate. So the health part in this rebalancing, when you add up, about 2 billion kunas of additional health funds, one part of HZZ, the other part directly to the Ministry of Health, I would say less important, but it's important that the idea that through these transfers, by the end of the year, the deadlines of payments to wholesales are being maintained, I will say, however, to those frameworks that are outside the law, which, of course, are not dear to us, but we have talked about it many times, and I believe that today's debate will well apply to health, which is that certain measures of structural nature, transformations that will make some rationalisations, which will prevent new obligations. So we do not deny, however, we treat existing obligations and there is not at all such a subject, we will settle them. It would be much simpler and everyone would be much happier if the health care problem were just about old obligations and debts, however high they were. However, the problem of new debts from month to month, which have been evident over the past period, creates additional pressure. So all these transfers we recognize and recognize in the rebalancing process should ensure that hospital payment deadlines are held within 180 days and the pharmacy is held for 120 days. I will repeat again, we are fully aware that it is an extralegal framework, but again I will remind you that we have had periods over the past period when payment or maturity deadlines have been over 900 days. Therefore, a certain step should be clearly made, a significant step on the divisive side. All the resolutions, all the things we've done on the income side have contributed to a certain stabilisation, but it can't, we've said that from the very beginning, solve the whole problem. On the other hand, the original plan provides for an additional 2 billion kuna for measures to preserve jobs, cover fixed costs and shortened working hours. That most of that money is already practically spent, and I will repeat that we in the original budget had for the first 2 and part 3 months planned funds, and measures and today we pay. It has been announced, among other things, and said in the 6th month, among other things, that we now need to recognize all this together in the rebalancing process. I will answer briefly, like yesterday and some members, and so the outside board members asked the question, as was the case from the very beginning, we have been monitoring the development of the situation and the government will certainly not turn away and never turn away from the health system or the economy. However, we have come into a situation that is practically entirely open economy, so only small segments of the economy remain below, let's call it, the Staff measures. On the other hand, it improves and repairs the epidemiological image, but there is still a lot of uncertainty. We enter, we come practically to the end of the second quarter, we enter the third quarter that is economically, not only think about tourism, but in an economic general sense, and most importantly for our economy, as was the case last year, of course we will see and monitor the development of events and, if necessary, react, but for now, these money that they are, they ultimately recognize all of this as being paid so far. Then 800 million kuna extra for wages. You remember all those discussions well, there was also in HS about that speech, both timely and strike just before Covid, the educational staff, the discussions that were being held. I'll just repeat, so the agreement to increase the base from 1.1 this year of 4% is functional, so it applies. You and I are officials, not to us, but our officers here and in the Parliament and the ministries and public servants, everyone knows it's already in force. We have already said in the original budget, very clearly, without any hiding that these funds are not planned at the time, but as was the case in 2018 that during the year we will provide these funds with redistributions, redistributions, internal redistributions at the level of individual divisions, and we are now making sure with these 800 million kunas that this course will continue in the following year. However, I have to put one note on the salary, as I said earlier in preserving jobs, given that in uncertainty about the pandemic, we have a situation in pay that, despite the fact that, despite the fact that this government, in its term of office, the base of public and state officials' salaries increased by 18.4% in 4 years, 18.4%, which is more than in 2016. by union leaders was referred to as their interpretation of that 2009 agreement, for some public services, so for education and healthcare and more than 20%, it is only a basis, not to mention the tax changes that have affected all of us's salaries, so not only public and civil servants, but also officials, as well as the economy as such, so to all employees, I am only talking about the basics here. However, a particular segment of civil and public servants, or public officials, has initiated certain lawsuits. It's in the courts, some of the verdicts have already been passed, so I can't say, at this point, that these funds will be sufficient by the end of the year. But just once again, I note because I know that a number of MPs from different segments, which are directly bound to belong to one of these segments, which in one way or another advocated among other things that here is what this government needs to do all the time. We haven't turned to unions and trade unions or our employees' backs, we're conducting dialogue, we're making increases, as you can see, not small, comparisons with the economy can be made very easily, but here we are also faced with these lawsuits. Also from the other items I will mention, here was yesterday the first meeting with newly elected mayors and representatives of the association of cities or municipalities and the mayor of Zagreb. Among other things, our regular dialogue, then we told them the same thing, so in this rebalancing, an additional 250 million kuna for the European Project Co-financing Fund. There are still certain funds for co-financing in the division of the Ministry of Regional Development, and one item that directly binds to certain segments of the economy, which are not deuras, therefore closed by decisions of the headquarters, we are talking about so-called. The event industry, the occasional transport, and we're talking about travel agencies that asked to enter that fixed-cost coverage regime. That's where we stick to our principles that only those who are incarcerated by headquarters decisions have the right to do so. Within the framework of the restoring ministries of culture, transport and tourism and sport, certain programmes will be set up to help them overcome difficulties or perhaps even more significantly, in preparation for the coming tourist season. The total amount in the rebalancing is planned somewhere at about 150 million kuna. As far as extra budget funds are concerned, there are no significant changes. The biggest increase in income and expenditure is on HZZO, but the overall score is less or less unchanged and when we sum up the deficit correction in total compared to the originally planned 2.9% of GDP goes to 3.8% of GDP for this year. However, the general government and all that is related to it, so when we add up both the state budget and the extra budget funds and local self-government and make all those adjustments that are necessary, I will repeat once again, according to the Budget, Material, Documents and all that is an integral part of these tables and all that is written in the Budget Law. But our obligation is also to report among other things to the European Statistical Office Eurostat or the European Commission, so the European ESA 2010 methodology. When we make all these adjustments, we come up with this 3.8% of GDP figure, and I thank you, too, because I think a while ago we have clarified all these potential ambiguities between one and another methodology and that the figures we are talking about are always internationally comparable and when we compare both deficit levels or surpluses or public debt to the Republic of Croatia that it is fully comparable to the EU member states. Despite the increased deficit and the 3.8% of GDP deficit, we see public debt again this year as I said on the downward path from 88.7% of last year's GDP to 86.6% of GDP and this is the dynamic that we see between 2 and 3 percentage points per year in the next medium term. That's why we're in government representation, so I'm going to repeat here in HS and the Prime Minister and I said that this kind of rebalancing and this kind of fiscal policy keeps us in the financial and fiscal security zone. And I'm not only sincerely hoping, it's our responsibility to remain in it, which in translation means not opening up potentially some kind of troublesome situation. We remember for ourselves, I will remind you, the Republic of Croatia immediately entered the excessive deficit procedure after joining the EU in mid-2013, including a group of countries with excessive macroeconomic imbalances. In 2017 we went out, our credit rating was returned to the investment zone. We all know very well, and we also know very well as taxpayers who are participating in the state budget, as well as individuals as potential businessmen or individual taxpayers, which is what it was and what kind of repercusion it had on interest rates. Interest rates are still referenced at historical minimums, but the risk premium is what the country, from country to country, differs depending on your credit rating and on your economic and wider social and political and similar stability, and I think we've done a lot in this area. This status should be maintained, not worsened and done further, I am sure that you have read the last two SMP and RFI reports, so among other things very explicitly and very clearly state what the introduction of EUR will mean specifically for our credit rating, very explicitly, two steps up, means better than what we currently have, therefore even greater security and stability. And finally, a brief sentence for the past year, of course, if there are any replicas and comments I will be very happy to answer, but for the past year, despite that, our latest projection of GDP decline of 8% was fully confirmed, the State Statistics Office of the Decimal has hit this with our assessment, however what the CNB and our leading analysts and international institutions all of us were very, very close to the estimates. The deficit last year was made at a level of 7.4% of GDP, so something better than the plan, however, it remains quite a, quite high deficit that had already mentioned the impact on the share of public debt in GDP of 88.7% of GDP as a repercussion. I don't like what if it wasn't for the covids, we'd have a public debt below 70% of GDP last year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50472	Thank you. Let's go now with the replicas there are plenty of them. The first is the respected colleague Katarina Peovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50473	Good afternoon, Minister. I'd say there's good news and bad news in this budget. It is good that the EU Commission measures are still in force to relax the rules of the Stability Pact in the semesters, etc. but it means we're allowed a deficit that would otherwise be blocked. But the bad news that we're not talking about here is that it won't be forever when things go back to normal will bring back the neoliberal austerity measures and what our government is always doing as one type of convergence, or competitiveness, by lowering the labour price, which is our only form of achieving competitiveness. You've already talked once about the need to rationalize health, so it goes according to this endeavor and in... to cover up myths and fairy tales some negative facts, I'd say some of them horror fairy tales as the fact that the funds are reduced by unemployed, preeminent workers assistants in teaching, etc. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50474	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50475	Thank you very much. Your Honor, when I was talking about health rationalization, I meant everything but pay, so let's get this straight. As far as the government is concerned, it is a very clear position and I will repeat once again, 18.4% is just a founding member of state and public servants, individual as health and education, and over 20, and all together we have had tax changes where we relaxed and reduced the rates of income tax, even abolished two contributions in terms of the discharge and burden of employers, extended significantly untaxable incomes to allow employers to increase the allocations or payments to their employees, therefore net wages without any pay all to make on our part a contribution to the growth of salaries. What will happen in the months and the period to come? I think that this crisis, but the previous one has made us not only in Croatia but also beyond very aware that the measures of purely rationalisation and savings have not fully won the effect of You see Croatia much better ships than in the past crisis. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Excuse me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50476	It's all right. My colleague, Heidash Doncic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50477	I will start with this final part that is the euro, so the euro cannot solve Croatian problems, it is general that you do not think that I am against... however, also... the area actually supports this, but it will not solve our crucial problems. Our crucial problems are that in two years we have increased public debt by 54 billion and that Croatia is slowly entering you know that, I will say a crawling inflation one that will definitely cancel even the increase of this base. It's at 2.1% as far as I can see in April, and it's also growing inflationary pressures especially in the building. And we generally rely on a recovery plan that we're going back to a building where more prices aren't the same, not even now. You now have problems with agglomerations. I would ask only something so you don't need to answer me, we're talking a little bit more, so be a little more economy minister, and a little less finance minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50478	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50479	Thank you very much. So as far as the euro is concerned, we have never spoken, nor will we say that it will solve all our problems, as has not solved all the problems and challenges, but it has brought many positive things, and so, among other things, the introduction of the euro. On the other hand, on the other hand, the topic you have opened I think is not only in Croatia but also at European level, but also at global level slowly resting to be more and more current, it is no surprise. All of us economists know very well in situations where you have big monetary layoffs, a big flow of money if you want to print money globally and then as such and as a certain disproportionate value of real economy and financial economy that exists and that certain inflationary pressures are created. We're fully aware of that. In Croatia inflation rests for many years, but we have our experiences, but we also have knowledge, and I think we should be very, very responsible and very responsible and talk because inflation among other things is pulling and certain inflationary expectations. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50480	Comrade Lalovec, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50481	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The Honorable Ministers. After these health debts are paid, may I ask you to publicly state how much it is today when this is all paid for what the absolute amount of debt is still, whether there is a debt in health or not when this is all settled? Furthermore, by the end of the year what you were saying about 200 million kunas is doing a monthly new debt, so by the end of this year there will be a billion and 200 new debt, there might be a better place for someone from the Ministry of Health to say that and what will they do with these amounts and perhaps in this context what are the debts of the KBCs because we see that there was a very high pressure and what the ratio to our KBC means is both their condition and what are certain projections by the end of the year and for them? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50482	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50483	Thank you very much. Dear Representative, here's what I said and during my opening address, so the variable that we predominantly took into consideration and all these transfers refers to payment deadlines, but of course it's closely related to total liabilities and debts. So here when we talk about hospitals, at the end of February the hospitals had a total commitment of 4 billion and 700, it was kind of here and after we had a re-entry last year from last year. After that, even close to 5 billion in March and after the first recovery in April this year, the last data I have is 4 billion 325, it's just hospitals. Of course, it should be added to the pharmacy, and also when we look at the total debt of the entire health system, we also talk about it when we add HZZ and others to it. What is important to say, therefore, of these total liabilities 4.3 billion in late April 3.3 billion have reached their commitments And that's what the focus is on. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50484	Here you go, fellow Bartula.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50485	I would like to thank the Honorable Minister. We are all aware that public finances are in bad shape, it is not a surprise given the decline in GDP in the last year. At this famous session of the Assembly where you were together with Minister Beros he admitted to me that in fact still the government in health care socialist governance model, no reforms have been implemented, you have now mentioned structural but they are not in the National Health Recovery Plan, there are no structural reforms. We all want to see cost rationalisation, but I don't see a mechanism that will lead to it, we'll still be creating new debts. My question concerns this practice that HZZO artificially determines prices. So, all of our hospitals can't charge the actual cost of the procedure because HZZO artificially determines the prices and how we're going to obtain rationalisation if this practice continues. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50486	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50487	I still think that the debate on the Health Committee was very good quality and different clubs and opposition and positional representatives contributed to the overall debate and I think that when we look at it and that we opened it up as a topic, it was the principle that looks at one another and the government, which is that health reform can only be accessed in a comprehensive way, not by singleing out one or one segment or that segment, and on this one I would say the subject, but by looking at everything together, really. Just before I spoke the revenue side is always there and will be, but focus is really on scale. Now, what you said in the National Recovery Programme is health care and part of these reforms are foreseen as well because certain funds are also available to stimulate certain implementation, but health reform goes beyond that framework. So much wider should be so that, among other things, we can open up the topic of hospital limitations, the structure of their structure, pricing and quantity, not only the price but also the amount of medicines.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50488	Thank you. Comrade Vucilović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50489	Thank you very much. The Honorable Ministers were already speaking in the assembly this morning about the deratiation but figuratively related to the arrest of judges in Osijek. My question is about a problem that plagues the citizens of the city of Osijek, including concrete deratiation. I'm talking, of course, about mosquitoes who are going and the new mayor is going to fight very hard and he says that through that famous vertical and government, the funds are going to come from the government, they're not small funds. I've really looked at the budget in detail, I don't see the funds. Is this rebalancing provided for funds to help the city of Osijek and Osijek-Baranja County resolve mosquitoes, where the items and if they are not me, I will submit the amendment. I expect colleagues from Osijek-Baranja County to also support my amendment because they will not have enough funds, 3 million kunas are predicted by the city of Osijek, it is definitely not enough, and the county will provide them with Maybe he'll jump, and maybe he won't. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50490	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50491	Thanks to the well-respected MPs, a real, real problem and the city of Osijek and certain cities and municipalities in Osijek-Baranja, but not only in that county, I can say for Brod-Posavina and similar county, of course there are both mayors and mayors and mayors within their resources the Government is always there to further contribute in one way or another if necessary, and also because it is important mainly for the mosquito problem, I am not an expert, but as far as I know enough that it is not only important to secure the funds but to provide timely funds and respond in a timely manner. Yesterday we have this already mentioned first meeting with the mayors, I have exposed the existing mayors well know, the new mayors all that is available to us and in communication on finance, the insurance of funds, so I am sure that this communication will be both with Mayor Radic and Mayor Anusic, but also with all the other local leaders of both Osijek-Baranja and other Slavonian counties, that this problem is being prevented and that we have no problems this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50492	My colleague Željko Pavić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50493	Dear Minister, today you mentioned an increase in public service wages, but I don't know if you know that one part of that promise is actually declarative. That actually part of the basics didn't pay off and that now people who work in public services are just suing the institutions where they work, e.g. High school professors sue high school students who are actually in front of blockades, all regularly get those convictions, then except that they get that basis which they are not, which is not paid for 2016 and 2017 gets even interest and, of course, the costs of the court should be paid. A similar problem is with some universities, I warned of an example of a university when we were making a budget. Also, the high schools are now some in the blockade because they didn't get enough money from the budget to pay off their debts to their professors. They're being sued by teachers and they're paying interest again, the basics are being paid, and the court costs are being paid, and you said you were working to audit the costs. which shouldn't be made. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50494	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50495	Thank you very much. Your Honor, I must respond immediately to this first part of you when you say "declarative," not even close, real, that it cannot be more real. The basic salary for state and public officials 2016 5.108, today 6,044, so more realistic that it can't be. The figures you have in the budget and pays every professor, every doctor, every civil servant sees on his salary, basically, an increase of 18.4%. Why are there charges among other things? So I'll remind you, the 2009 agreement has certain clauses and certain fuses, that if the economy goes up to grow, but even if it falls, but also if it falls to secure itself, check with your colleagues at the club during the SDP government and coalition, that fuse is not activated unfortunately, and could be activated and should be activated. The lawsuit came and the lawsuits went for the period since we started with an increase in wages for the period during 2016, but the funds are all not just declarative, very real.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50496	Comrade Begonj, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50497	Thank you, Your Honor. In the introduction, you said that these changes and additions to the state budget provide funds to settle the accumulated part of the debt in the health system, then encourage and retain jobs, address the problem of the non-proliferation of economic operators whose business is difficult due to the epidemic, the implementation of further support for the preservation of jobs in the activities affected by the epidemic, the provision of funds for the growth of pay bases in state and public services, the payment of overtime of healthcare workers, etc., etc. I'm interested in how much so far, including last year and this, from the state budget nominally cca was paid for everything that Covid-19 caused, calculating, of course, and vaccines, clearly, what awaits us in time ahead and that's a special story in relation to the story that is related to the consequences of the earthquake last year, which we also paid.../incomprehensible/ Thank you. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50498	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50499	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So we went out with those numbers a while ago and updated them on a continuous basis. So, what do we count? We are counting on one side of the decline in GDP caused by Covid, too, and the measures that we put into operation back then at the beginning of the pandemic, those 3 months when there were horizontal write-off measures and suspensions of tax duties, and then, of course, we are counting measures concerning increased health funding, I would say protective equipment, vaccines, tests and all that followed and perhaps, and when you look at the nominal maximum amount is for jobs. For jobs, as I said, we have already crossed the 11 billion-dollar line. Very likely with payments for, by the end of this, payments for May and June, we'll get up to 12 billion kuna. Of course, this should also be added to some of the injections given by the state central budget, for example, to HBOR, HZO and local self-government. We're already over 33, 34 billion kunas.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50500	Thank you. Comrade Cellic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50501	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, one of the eternal questions is how to balance public finances and also how to balance the relationship between public and private in the health care system unlike those that promote the American health system in this session, I would rather look at the Nordic model that is at this point the best in terms of sustainability of the public health system, which has fundamental principles according to what Dr. Andrija Printer. The fact is that the population is getting older, the costs are getting bigger and if we put that in the context of the Covid crisis, then it's certainly a big challenge for the finances of the Republic of Croatia. I would point out here that according to the DZS's health pay has increased by 1200 kuna net, which speaks of how well managed and in this time challenging Covid crisis in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50502	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50503	Thank you well-respected MP, so here, as far as certain models are concerned, or, I'm not enough, I'd say I'd be able to talk about something more detailed about the models of health systems, I'm not a health care professional, but again, from the perspective of finance and the economy, I'm looking at that picture among other things, and I can see that, as I've mentioned several times today and I need to make some adjustments and rationalization on the cost side, so do and treat myself more fairly and more responsibly to taxpayers' money, but at the same time, not ignoring in any case, what we also need to very clearly define, which is the availability and quality of the service we want. Of course, for our citizens we want as high quality and as good a service as possible and that doctors and nurses and technicians and all those who participate in the health system are adequate and honored and that they produce and provide such services. So we're back on the same subject as I just said, comprehensive reform and health issues.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50504	Thank you. Comrade Marko Pavić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50505	Your Honor, Deputy Prime Minister, the Honorable President of the Parliament. Well, it's a pleasure to see, today we've discussed this on the Committee on Science, budget planning in these situations and Covid and the earthquakes are extremely difficult, so congratulations on this rebalancing. Two components I'd like to look back, one is employment, so now we have more insurance and a few tens of thousands more than 2019. The unemployment of 132,000, here, I looked at this morning, but what I am particularly pleased about is the EU funds. This is what I think for the first time that we underestimated the absorption of EU funds, that it grows by 1.2 billion kuna, and we see that according to the figures over 117% of the contract, but 250 million kuna additional for the co-financing fund. My question is if you are planning to, and I will invite you to the Committee's meeting, new co-financing mechanisms because since we have 24.5 billion euros, it will certainly need large and significant funds for our users to help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50506	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50507	Thank you, Your Honor, the answer is yes, I repeat it yesterday, and with the mayors and the mayors and the commissioners we spoke to. I think that it should point to one very, very important issue of those negotiations that last year, on behalf of the Republic of Croatia, was, of course, the Prime Minister of the EU-level Council with the envelope of the Multi-annual Financial Framework, with the envelope of the National Recovery and Resistance, a very important segment for which we fought because EU Commission proposals have gone in one direction which we have managed to remove for the time being, and that is to increase that share of national co-financing from an average of 15 to even 30%, which would create additional pressure on central public finances, and even more, I would say locally and that is one of the more important things to me. And as for employment, let me just say briefly, here's another proof that Croatia is learning and progressing. Compared to the past crisis, how much better we have put up with jobs and preserving the workforce, only when you compare the figures where we are in the past and the current crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50508	Thank you. Hey, buddy Buck, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50509	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Ministers, the money for the post-traumatic reconstruction is foreseen in this rebalancing, of course, at the position of the reconstruction fund. Of course, at the position of the Central State Office for Reconstruction and Housing Care, in the division of the Ministry of Science and Education, in the division of the Ministry of Culture and Media certainly even in more other positions in multiple divisions. But we don't see the whole thing. Can you please, not necessarily at this time if you do not have the information on you, so can you say the total amount, where it is directly intended for post-traumatic recovery, later possibly given in some response or perhaps in the final presentation, so how much is the total amount intended for direct post-traumatic renewal and, in addition, how much of that amount is it intended to restore the apartments and housing of our citizens? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50510	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50511	Thank you very much, Your Honor, I can tell you this section relating to the Solidarity Fund which the Republic of Croatia has withdrawn, so EUR 700 million at the end of last year, in the original budget, that amount, for this year, was planned for 200 million, so a billion and a half, everything was originally planned at the Ministry of Finance's division, but we have already said with the intensities that this, I will not say, is decentralized, but the schedules between the resolutions that you just said and now in the rebalancing and we do, so, but we all know that these 700 million Euros are for public purposes only, for this building public purposes and that we are curding less than the total estimated damage. We know for ourselves how much damage is estimated, only the City of Zagreb and the surrounding two counties, so we're talking about the so-called city of Zagreb. Zagreb's earthquake, this one, so when we add Petrinski and all together, it goes to EUR 18 billion, but in any case, the funds we have at our disposal have been identified. In all these years, both in this year and in the coming years, if necessary, for realisation, of course we will plan and fund.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50512	Thank you. Comrade Dark-Taritash, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50513	Thank you very much, esteemed President HS, Your Honor. I'll be back on the topic of health. So the whole Coronal story has opened up problems and strengthened the problems we have. It is certainly clear to everyone that health problems are extremely large and that that is what I would say is a bottomless hole in which no matter how much you put it will never be enough. Without a serious reform of health care, I am sure there is no budget of any country, especially the budget of such a country as Croatia that can endure it. I have a simple question for you. By how long can it go, how long can it go without one serious reform, and I don't think it's just the crown that caused it and what's the result of all these problems that you have on the spending side than it is years ago, but by how long can the budget suffer, how much do we have to have GDP growth so that we can endure the state of health without serious reform? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50514	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50515	Thank you, well-respected MPs, so I think that through both the opening and the individual replicas, I have already made it clear that it is now more than clear that it is necessary to do a comprehensive health reform with a special emphasis on the cost side. On the revenue side, it will be possible and will make a certain contribution, as will all these years. Someone counted 17 rehabilitations on the income side of health and what's interesting to say, each one said “this is the last time. ” Well, it really needs to be done at last, not only believe, but do everything to get to that last time, or to make this thorough and comprehensive reform a financial sustainability of such an important system because the crown has only partly influenced what we're talking about. The crown did not cause all these problems, although these problems have been dragging for many years, but the crown may have opened its eyes to how important health care is with food and energy as essentially necessary for every citizen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50516	Thank you. Comrade Petyr, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50517	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. Some here today have disputed the value of the European funds we need to close financial structures. You yourself said that this rebalancing is partly conditional on the means that we need to allocate and that we have set aside to preserve jobs, but also to help municipalities and cities realise European projects. Of course, it was also planned to revitalise less developed areas of which some were affected by earthquakes such as Banovina, so it is kind of up to you that you obviously need to be a wizard to manage to cover all of this financially and find all the resources to meet the necessary needs for the functioning of certain areas and certain resolutions. Given that an important segment is a rural development and some measures are now being called, especially for the areas that died in the earthquake, I wonder if you will approve ministers before funding for these farmers because they do not have their own funds to rebuild?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50518	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50519	Thank you very much, so in terms of rural development measures of billions and 200 increases from the sources of European funds, more than half, 673 million relate precisely to rural development measures. Therefore, the Minister and her team are working hard to get these funds to those who will benefit, or who will use them in the right way and contribute to rural development as well as to a more balanced economic and regional development of all parts of the Republic of Croatia. As for the individual parts and pre-financing, we talked about it, all in accordance with course and with our capabilities we will support this. Also, I'll just briefly refer to what you said was challenging times. I think that even through this crown crisis we actually saw how important it is to have sustainable public finances because if we didn't have them, we couldn't react like this, neither covid nor earthquake could anyone assume. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50520	Let's move on. Now she's a colleague of Peric's, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50521	Thank you very much, Your Honor. In the Convergence Programme, you indicated and you put in 5.2% of GDP growth. Yesterday, the World Bank announced 5.5, which means far more optimistic than we are, and that's an increase compared to their previous announcement. Also in 2022, even 6.2% of our national economy. So, what do you possibly predict that can really reach that level and that we have underestimated, but better yet to underestimate and achieve than to overestimate ourselves? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50522	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50523	Thank you very much, Your Honor, for making a very good reference. The World Bank, here's the last international financial institution, released those projections last night. What is important to say, therefore, is the good news, that here we are both the European Commission and the World Bank, the rating agency, the domestic professional public and analysts, the CNB, the Ministry of Finance or the Government of the Republic of Croatia, we are all practically on the same track, there are no major deviations. And when you compare in last year, too. And that's what I love all the time to point out several times I've been in the Croatian Parliament I wasn't going to say critical, but some MPs read lack of ambition and optimism. So here we are not talking about ambitions and optimism, it is my ambition always that Croatia has as high a rate as possible and as much as it is, but this is a real assessment. A real assessment based on all the factors we have and some expectations. So we have a major downturn last year, so it's reasonable on that side to expect growth this year, but there are certain segments of the economy that will give one stronger It's a growing stopper, both these and the coming years. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50524	Thank you. My colleague Jackov, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50525	Dear Mr. Minister, the deficit expected in the state budget, which will be around 17.1 billion and 4.3%, respectively, is certain that something we all need to worry about. However, I am interested in your opinion whether this expected deficit will jeopardise the pace of RS entry into the Eurozone.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50526	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50527	I don't think so, we don't think that's why I pointed out this, our opinion that we're still in the zone of fiscal and financial security and stability. Croatia is one of the few countries, so all EU countries are taking care of health and the economy, and so is Croatia, but unlike many other countries, we are, of course, taking care of these fiscal indicators, not only because of the EUR, but because of what I said in one of the previous replicas that this sustainability and stability of public finances is a prerequisite and for many other things. Public finances must be in function of economic growth. So this deficit and, uh, all these indicators and figures despite their high levels of those beyond actually involve reducing the share of public debt in GDP, and it's actually the largest and most important taste of both this rebalancing and all that we're leading. Fiscal policy has its own responsibility, it has to be there, it has to be shown and it needs to continue to show that it is there in defence of both human life and health and the economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50528	Thank you. Comrade Sacic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50529	Dear Ministers, Vice-President, as you met the Croatian Society of Political Prisoners and their President Marko Grubisic submitted one last year, gave me one incentive to submit an amendment to an exceptional project, an extremely significant project for the Republic of Croatia to finally form a memorial centre for victims of the totalitarian communist system in Croatia after 30 years. Of all transition states, unfortunately only Croatia does not have such a project, it does not work, all other countries have and the EU initiates it called actually our society why it stands. They now have EUR 10 million at their disposal. Our society has, the state of Croatia has already given about EUR 2 million in real estate, please these funds you have now, as I see initially deployed to the Ministry of Defence, that's good, but other than expressing satisfaction, I am in some way obliging you to do this process. And in the next, in the next years, we finish him off. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] We draw that money and finally, to the consciousness of our young generations, do what we do. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] He's expecting it. [[Intruder: Comrade Sačić, please, 15 seconds you've crossed.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50530	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50531	Thank you, here's my reference, so I'll cut my cut and we'll be zero. This thanks you for recognising, fellow Bear of course of this and within our resources, and we will all be together to make sure that these planned activities and all that is related to this topic are realized naturally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50532	Comrade Vidovic Kristo, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50533	Mr. Marić, there is a certain Ivica Todorovic living in Kulmer's court in Zagreb better known to you than ordinary citizens, today's mayor Tomašević tied himself up in front of the castle 10 years ago because the building permit was issued for the hotel and used as a family house. As it is known when the facility is built as a business facility, and used as a house Tax Administration charges PVD and profit tax, it would be at the rates at which point it would be about 43%. Are those taxes of 100 million kuna charged to the facility in view of the estimated value of the facility? We all know how persistent, often brutally and brutally you charge taxes from ordinary citizens and you lead them to the edge of existence through the exercise. Answer me, did Todorovic charge those taxes and whether he paid the stated real estate at all. Croatian citizens pay abnormally high taxes precisely because individuals do not pay them at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50534	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50535	Thank you very much, distinguished MPs, you know that individual examples from the tax district, given the tax secret, cannot comment on anything on the subject. I can only say that the Tax Administration is certainly working and acting in accordance with the positive regulations of the Republic of Croatia and in all individual cases. I will refer to the rest of your replica as well as to our last communication for one of your representative issues, or question to me. Of course, different views of tax authorities' treatment, but tax authorities, tax administration, customs services are naturally responsible for implementing the laws of the Republic of Croatia, but at the same time and equally treat all taxpayers. And that's our attitude and principle, and we stick to it no matter what happens in one way or another, it's not a state, and so is that question that you asked the last time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50536	Comrade Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50537	Thank you very much. Your Honor...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50538	I'm sorry, I didn't see that. Comrade Vidovic Kristo, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50539	Of course, I am knowingly risking my warning, the violation of Rules of Procedure Article 238, Mr. Minister is telling the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50540	Ha, you said yourself, you get a warning, it's no violation of the Rules of Procedure, and please don't do that. Now, here you go, fellow Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50541	Thank you. Dear Minister, we all agree that there is a patient at the heart of the health system who must not be discontinued in treatment. Now, what we're doing is rerouting resources to health care, we're aware that it's a patching hole. My question is when do you intend to make a definitive stabilisation of the system? So the big problem and the big deal are restrictions on health institutions that are unequal, unreal. While you have a hospital in the north that receives an 8-9.000 per patient, and on the other hand you have a hospital of a similar size, a similar number of patients who have 15,000 is not good. I asked a similar issue about the restrictions earlier on the board, they told me there was a new negotiation in the 10th month, but only a mere bargaining towards HZZO is not the solution. So while you have HZZO that underestimates the work of health institutions, you don't pay what you do problem is. So when will the final financial stabilisation of health institutions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50542	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50543	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, hospital restrictions and pricing and the amount of all that we have already mentioned not only about medicines but also about certain services that individual hospitals and institutions deliver and take as part of the overall and comprehensive reform that we have mentioned several times and I personally and many of you representatives have mentioned, and so on, I think that we should create a positive pressure on all of us together who are in one way or another involved in making these steps and that everyone responsible in the system behave, ultimately, to lead to what we are all in favour of both the financial stability and sustainability of the health system that will guarantee above all and the most adequate and quality service of our fellow citizens and patients who, as such, need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50544	Comrade Vrkljan, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50545	Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. I'm not going to talk about health care, although it's a very nice subject for me, today you've heard at the beginning of a few tips you need to take care of in health care, but there's no need for me to explain to you, I think you understand that, health care is also a social category. I will say that in Croatia our entrepreneurs are extremely burdened with tax, we are among the most burdened entrepreneurs in the EU, so in Croatia in parafiscal costs a year 9 billion kunas from our taxpayers. One of these is that when entrepreneurs employ deficit jobs outside the Republic of Croatia, they have to pay at the bank in ZAP and with the public notary almost 1,000 kuna. Among other things, say ZAP 300 kuna only for the issue of bon 1 and Bank 300 kuna for the issue of bon 2. Why? It's a piece of paper that shouldn't be chargeable.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50546	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50547	Thank you very much. The subject of parafiscal burdens is also one of the components and priorities that we are dealing with and which we will deal with both written and recognised in certain government strategic documents and some future plans related to the accession of the Eurozone, as well as related to the National Recovery and Resistance Programme. And I agree with you in that sense that parafiscal imposes, non-tax revenues are an integral and integral part as well as a total tax system. So, from the perspective of entrepreneurs, what's called is treated as a cost and, as we've done on the tax plan, we've made a whole series of steps to dissipate and reduce the burden of paying both indirect taxes, I think we should continue and we want to continue as a government and to dissipate parafiscal and non-taxable taxes. Otherwise, only if the time allows me, so we are at top number one by the share of indirect taxes in GDP, direct taxes rich in the second or third from the back, by contributions somewhere in the middle.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50548	Comrade Kirin, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50549	Dear Vice President, Your Honor. The economy that creates new values is the cornerstone of the budget, that's where we are. We need to think for real and not forget about the coronary crisis. Can we think about some of the untapped possibilities with the elements of budget filling? I'll simplify that, income property censorship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50550	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50551	Thank you very much. Your Honor, you have opened a very good topic among other things, the whole issue and the subject of social policy and social giving. I believe that it is not only a matter of the total volume of financial resources that we will agree, in good faith, that in this segment it is not just a question of the total volume of financial resources. However, we would all like these funds to be greater, but more importantly, they really aim and guess and come to those who really need it. And that's why these censorships that you said income, and even more, even more real as ideal would be the property censorship that we have in the good part of our social measures. Of course, even in those segments where there is no need to go in this direction, to really look at the entire property and whether or not someone has a right because then we will ensure that they really reach out to those whom, and to whom, and to so far, only a billion parafiscal burdens and in the plan of an additional billion discharges in the IPO.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50552	Thank you very much. My colleagues, Juričev Martinchev, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50553	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor. As you said with this budget rebalancing, there will be an additional 1.4 billion kuna for the rehabilitation of health institutions, we know as much transfer to HZZO that hospitals do not pay obligations for medicines, that total commitments now cross and 3 billion are increasing every day. In April of this year, an additional 600 million kuna was provided for the timely and optimal supply of health care systems with medicines and consumables, it can be seen that some institutions have due obligations and are late at 780 days, some even 1330 days. The General Hospital of Sibenik-Knin County would have said only 230 days late and then received only 6 million kunas or 1% of those funds. It would be good if traditional defaults didn't get the most, so here's my appeal to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50554	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50555	Thank you very much. I can't agree more than what you said, we talked about it on the Health Committee, you state an example of the Sibenik-Knin hospital, I'll mention the Brod Hospital, the Slavonic-ship hospital that's under those criteria with the lowest payment deadlines, though some have said in public that it's because of my origin, but it has nothing to do with it. The director is as responsible as some other directors are, unlike some others, and then when we have such a huge disproportionate, when the resolutions come and if it's looked only at the manual, these best go the worst and it's certainly not good nor a message to them, ultimately, a negative reward, so let's call it so that in some previous resolutions we've tried to incorporate not only to be payment deadlines but also to some other parameters, but I think it's also one of the reasons why all of this together here, more than half, I'd say the replication refers to the health system, so repeat once again, comprehensively look, all of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50556	Comrade Grmo, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50557	Thank you. Dear Minister, so I don't want much on the rebalancing itself, so it's clear that we have big problems, that unfortunately the key reforms, structural reforms were not there, that you didn't take advantage of the good time before this crown and now we have a situation that will come up with some money, that money doesn't grow on the branch, so it's clear that there's a possibility that it will ultimately pay, very likely Croatian citizens and what does the Government do? You're going to put that money into public infrastructure, I'm dealing with the judiciary, so here I see here, and on some half a billion Croatian kunas you're investing in Justice Square so you can centralize courts. What problems will this solve in the Croatian judiciary? It won't solve the problems. Unfortunately, money is invested in the wrong things, and it is repeated year after year, and reforms are lagging behind. Are you going to change something in that sense?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50558	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50559	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Well, just a brief reflection or my replica on yours. The first part you said, the reforms were missing, so here, I think we should repeat once again that the key reform this government made in the last term was public finance reform. The general public finances because if we hadn't done what we did, stabilised and made public finances sustainable, we wouldn't have been able to react as we reacted when the Covid crisis broke out. On the other hand, as regards some in the National Recovery Plan, of course, it was among other things in line with the criteria and rules set by the EU or the Commission, to run for those projects that we consider to have a certain transformative effect, but at the same time, what can, inter alia, be done in a relatively short time. So already mentioned the Market of Justice, as counterpart Malenica made it clear to me, the Administrative Court, the Commercial Court, their unification, greater efficiency, lower costs, and shortened deadlines and days of processing, that is something that is important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50560	Thank you. Comrade Troscott, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50561	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Government, the Honorable President of HS, I saw in this rebalancing that 200 million kunas were paid in the name of the verdicts received by healthcare professionals against hospitals and health institutions. We also have a decision of the Supreme Court of 9-12.2019 in which one legal understanding is actually given in favour of healthcare professionals, which means that any launch of second-degree procedures is, in fact, the cost of interest, tight interest, etc. My question is this. If it is already known, then the Supreme Court has confirmed it, and it will be a case law which will make hospitals and other health institutions enter these second-degree rulings that will give us new debts, new duties that you administer and manage, and on the other hand, we will now have the announcement of a new budget rebalancing that is coming precisely and because of these costs. The problem is that from these interest rates and those tight interest rates So they demand the cost of our citizens' operations. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50562	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50563	Thank you very much. Well, I mentioned earlier on the pay issue and the basics that everything we've taken over or that we recognize in the rebalancing process, it's not going to be enough by the end of the year. We will also have to go inside the portfolio because, wages are the kind of specific expenditure of the state budget that we generally solve in a way that provides those funds with internal redistributions and savings from other resellers. The so-called verdicts, or pardons, of the cases mentioned, and then judgments are one of the things that will require us to work very hard in the course of the year to ensure these funds through internal savings and redistributions. You said well, two hundred million more for a particular case of doctors and litigation in the matter of overtime, and I also mentioned complaints concerning public officials regarding this very basis, but once again I will mention and mention, 18.4% in 4 years, the basis was increased, however, by a court case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50564	My colleague Bulj asked for a break, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50565	... Thank you very much. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[Intruder: Mask off, mask off, mask off.]] I'm looking for a break on behalf of the 10-minute bridge club on the rebalancing issue. Of course you can talk more seriously about health care. 1.4 billion in health care recovery is why it came. We have counties. In my Split-Dalmatia county come the decentralised funds from the cash register you run, which you manage, but it is one flow water heater that destroyed health care of health homes in Split-Dalmatia County. Go to the Dalmatian Zagora, come to Sinj, Vrgorac, Imotski and you will see the health services. That's why people are leaving. That's why doctors and professional staff are leaving. Because of the lack of services, people go to third countries. For what? Because these counties don't use this money transparently for health care, but this flow boiler serves to imprison their county, in their institutions, these are their counties, not their people's counties. And once again, I'd warn you, we have one hospital, I've said it countless times, the only one in the Dalmatian Zagora, it's the Veteran Hospital in Knin. General Veteran. Medical personnel travelling from Sinj, meaning in 2 directions 150 km, from Split even further, from Sibenik, 8 months ago did not receive travel expenses in the Covid crisis. Travel expenses. But we all know to come to that day of victory in Knin. The greatest day of our history, the day of victory, when the city of Knin was freed. So these resources you give, I have countless examples, in the House of Health Sinj is being restored every year to the shelter at the stationary, they're doing unskilled works, money is being thrown, it's hitting your entrepreneurs who are financing campaigns, you're not transparent, you're not serious, you've destroyed the health system, and that's causing this current situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50566	Thanks, buddy Bull. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 293.b. We're not going on a break right now, but we're going to take a break after we're done with the replicas and then we're going to continue at 12 o'clock, so you can plan your time. We've got another 20 minutes, then there'll be a break by 12 o'clock. Let's go now, Comrade Skoro, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50567	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I listened carefully to your speech and unplannedly responded to the replica because I was saddened by one of your sentences. Namely, I know, we all know that our fragile Croatian ship floats on that restless financial sea, there and there are little incomes, but it is mostly hit by waves of these expenditures and your rebalance will pass, you have enough votes and hands in the air. But what saddened me, I was saddened by the fact that here's the money you won't, as some proud commander of that ship that came here, I would really like it, you know, to be known as an eloquent and capable man, an expert man, and I agree with that, so you won't spend them on something that would contribute to the development of Croatia in the future, but unfortunately, let the firefighters not be offended, you will do it as a firefighter, you will put out some fires on that ship. And I'm saddened by the sentence that you're counting on potential growth in entrepreneurial activities in the future. That makes me very sad, and I had to say, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50568	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50569	Thank you, well-respected advocate, for your replica and for the kind words you have personally referred to me, but I will only tell you about this potential growth, so that is the category of economic which, unlike those, means comparing what we have real growth, and potential growth as to how effectively you use and what is the result of all that you spend, work, capital and some productivity of those same. So in Croatia, there is a situation as in some other countries, that potential growth is the rate of potential growth below real growth, and therefore it is necessary to make some reforms among others, in order to make this efficiency of using these factors that we have, but also to improve these factors, here I am primarily thinking about labour force, so that then the actual growth rate is as high as possible. But what's also important is that through this rebalancing, of course, our role and tasks are when there are certain needs that we have to work like that, so now this part of the health system. We hope there won't be too many health issues in the next circles, but we'll see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50570	Comrade Oreshkovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50571	Thank you. Dear Ministers, when we talk about the implementation of the budget, we are witnessing enormous expenditures that are reasonably suspected of being unsupervised, irrational, and corruptly spent. In view of the numerous strategic documents that mention the word "digitalisation", I urge you and the government as a whole to start with the process of introducing information solutions and applications that allow full fiscal transparency, thus showing all individual payments and payments at the national level of all state budgets and extra-financial users. If certain JLSs can, the state can. And secondly, I welcome the abolition of certain parafiscal duties, but I urge you to start with an ambitious plan to reduce the expenditure side resulting from an irrational territorial structure until the next appearance in HS, so I urge you to plan to reduce the number of counties, cities and municipalities and reduce public administration in positions and jobs for which there is no legitimate purpose.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50572	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50573	Thank you very much, here's to last rebalancing or last budget debate, health care is probably such a dominant topic that we're just here now I don't know which is already 20 and some replica came up on the subject of budget transparency, so I'm going to repeat what I said very much last time, and yesterday there was some talk on the board about it. No one happier than my team and I at the Ministry of Finance to raise that transparency to as high levels as possible, so there's no need, no reason for any hiding, all of us to have the availability of everything they need, we're all taxpayers, we're all participating and they really have insight into every possible item of income and expenditure, every possible level. Last time, remember, there was a lot of debate and about that level of cont we're going to go higher or lower, how detailed the budget is going to be, all the documents, all the papers, everything you get on the tablets or in the boxes is in accordance with the Budget Act, as defined there. We're going to the Budget Act this year and I'm announcing to come to HS and change each other's segment if there's any need and reason for this transparency part, we want that too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50574	Thank you. Comrade Antoliæ Vupra, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50575	Dear Ministers, since as a country we are only 60% of the average of economic development in the EU, it is therefore important that we also demonstrate this development potential and the development elements of our future development not only in the economy but also in the development of individual sectors. You said that dominant and what's visible from the rebalancing itself is that it's a dominant area, including health care debt coverage. That's a fact. We're aware that was necessary. However, what about the coming winter months when a new, new wave of pandemics is possible, how is healthcare organised, I speak from the aspect and I come from Varazdin County where we saw that a different organisation of the complexity of the health system would contribute to the reduction of costs that would be necessary and that the pandemic would be contained?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50576	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50577	Thank you very much, distinguished MPs, so I think the health system has also shown in totally sudden circumstances that hit us at the beginning of last year and the pandemic when no one could assume such a situation that it can be and know when to organize it and deliver what we want from it. We have seen at the same time unfortunately in many other countries economically much stronger than the Republic of Croatia, here I refer among other things to your opening part of the replica that it is not only economic wealth and the strength of the guarantee that, among other things, you will respond adequately in these circumstances. Economically much more developed countries than the Republic of Croatia and have had a much bigger problem with their hospital and health system than Croatia has. When we managed to react in sudden circumstances with all the assumptions and knowledge we have, let's hope, God forbid it isn't, but if there is a reopening of some new waves certain that the health system will be there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50578	Comrade Baricevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50579	Thank you very much. Here is Prime Minister Maric, we should really commend here today an increase in budget rebalancing compared to the planned one, and certainly this borrowing which is not due to false planning, but precisely because of circumstances we have not had an impact on. In view of today's rebalancing which is the most driven by just increased health costs, with an additional 3 billion kuna of revenue, and here 9.4 billion expenditures. What is very important to welcome here today is that it will not endanger our path to the Eurozone, and this should also be commended and increased allocations to support today's rebalancing of jobs in activities affected by the coronaryvirus of 2.0 billion kuna, and I expect that these interventions will also encourage exactly what we have heard today, which we all want to do, systematically solving health problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50580	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50581	Thank you well-respected MPs, so here I am only going to use this part of your replica, or more comments, since you said in the opening statement yourself, so given the increased deficit, we have, of course, a greater need for borrowing. The total funding account is increasing by 8.6 billion kuna, of which 6.4 billion is related to the deficit, and 2.2 billion kuna to the fact that we pulled more than we thought from that well-known SUR program. The SUR programme is not a grant, these are credit arrangements from the European Commission or the Union, although according to the most favourable conditions, we were in the original budget planning EUR 750 million, and we withdrew about a billion, so this total financing account is, among other things, increased for that reason, but in any case, the health commentary remains the same as it has already been. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50582	Comrade Mandaric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50583	Thank you. Well, it was clear that right from the beginning of this crisis with the crown, there has been this for over a year, the government has gone clearly and unequivocally to help me not to say selectively I'm going to say quite broadly, how the economy has been opening up more precisely and more precisely were government measures only to the most affected sectors. And I am pleased to see that the government will continue to support those who are in difficulty even though the economy is almost open, there is not fully any of those sectors and there are still those economic operators in question. And this way I welcome it is a struggle for, for each actually progress, for every job is crucial. And only by such a struggle, in fact, will those projected plans and an increase in GDP to 5.2%, but it should also draw attention to improved projections regarding the drop in the unemployment rate and the increase in employment, which is, in fact, crucial. So here's my question for the end, until when do we think, or do we still think, with precise measures to help the most affected?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50584	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50585	Thank you, Your Honor, so here are the past months, of course, all this time we are practically paying for the support and for preserving jobs and covering fixed costs, of course all and in line with the development of events and situations. What is good is, well not only from the perspective of public finances that it amounts to you from month to month, which means, in other words, that the economy is generally opening up and the situation is stabilising, or that ultimately these declines are smaller than those envisaged. But what I said and I'm gonna say now. Our roles and tasks, as we reacted at the beginning of the pandemic, and in this, we all sincerely hope, to the final stage of the pandemic, let's hope, let's believe it, and do everything we can to really do so, so let's not make some kind of mistake in steps in the last second, in the last minute of the game. So there's a government fully aware of it and, of course, according to all our possibilities and circumstances, it's at the top of our priorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50586	Comrade Matul, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50587	Thank you. Your Honors Minister, you haven't answered our question, I'm going to repeat this even more harsh and short. So a year and two months have passed since the first devastating earthquake in Zagreb, we are interested in how much money this rebalancing is reserved for the restoration of private houses and apartments in Zagreb and Zagreb County?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50588	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50589	Here, here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50590	Thank you very much, Your Honor, I'm sorry. As I was just responding to a similar replica, I'll say it now. So, the dynamics of preparation and everything that goes in terms of procedures for launching both private and public renewals will dictate between the other and the necessary financial resources and, accordingly, we will in the state budget and plan the same. The Solidarity Fund is one specificity since it is immediately approved and withdrawn. However, the Solidarity Fund has a deadline of 18 months. At the same time, it is much smaller than that of the overall recovery effect, and we know well that the reconstruction will not take place during one or three years' budget, it will last where and where longer, so our responsibility in accordance with the procedures that are going, and which are driving this when there are needs and how much need, to provide these funds in accordance with all the laws that we have passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50591	Now it's Comrade Stier's turn, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50592	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Vice-President of the Government, I will shortly return to the question raised by my colleague Peovic, the EU's decision to suspend the deficit and public debt rules, as far as I know, that suspension will be extended to 2022. And I'm not so sure as my colleague, Peovic, that after that, everything will be back to normal. We hear voices like that, for example. from Germany, but in France, Italy, and I think that triangle is becoming increasingly important in the Eurozone, for example. They hear voices that talk about some reform of the Stability and Growth Pact, which might fit Croatia. In any case, I think it is only responsible at this time to lead such a policy that will use now-relaxed rules to finance what needs and health care and help the economy to make the reforms needed, but remain in the fiscal security zone as you have announced.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50593	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50594	Thank you very much. Your Honor, I must say that I fully agree with you and all of what you have said are in some way and announcements to say so, it is already discussing this possibility of discussions on the revision and the Stability and Growth Pact, until then suspension of fiscal rules for this and for the whole next one is in effect. However, on the other hand, there is another angle for us, and these are the master criteria and our way towards the euro, but again I repeat not only because of these criteria and the higher our communication with the European Commission and the Union, because I am finally repeating, we have shown and proved to ourselves why it is necessary to introduce a responsible fiscal policy and why it is responsible to treat taxpayers' money. With all due respect to European sources and now several times mentioned European sources and the National Recovery Programme and the multiannual financial framework the amount of financial resources in the budget of Croatian taxpayers is much higher. We treat and treat them responsibly, not just with European money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50595	Thank you. Comrade Miletić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50596	Dear President of the Croatian Government Mr Jandrokovic, Honored Ministers What did I say, Vlad? [[I'm still in the Assembly.]] Oh, man. Maybe prophetic. Mr. Jandrokovic's esteemed president and the esteemed Minister Maric with his associates. The caterers did 16 months of work in the loss, so they officially claim, out of the catering of about 12,000 employees gone. I'm curious, Minister, if you'll continue to have a focus on our caterers, I'd like to know in comparison to the coming tourist season. And then I'm also interested because the European Football Championship begins, can you, as Deputy Prime Minister, influence that working hours move at least an hour later that all citizens of the Republic who are following the Croatian team that we don't have to be forced out of the cafe 15 minutes after the game is over? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50597	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50598	Thank you very much. Your Honor, we will influence everything we need and get as good a result as we can. I'm kidding. I have to make a little joke. As for the caterers all this time, really so look facts are clear that they can't be clearer, hospitality is exactly the segment that has since the first day when there was still a three-month period horizontally for all, after we have more sectorally focused on individual segments and the day today that is fully recognised by measures and preservation of jobs and covering parts of fixed or all fixed costs. So, the answer to the hospitality of course is one of those who suffered perhaps the greatest blow of the crown crisis, but at the same time we're not and we're not going to turn our backs on them. We have a continuous dialogue, you know that representatives of catering associations among other things I will meet them personally and in the next days, we always come to that one topic where we differ, primarily about VAT, but there are a whole series of other topics that I'm sure we'll find a common language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50599	Comrade Voter, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50600	Thank you very much. Mr. President of HS, the Honorable Minister. You said here you see we increased the base in our mandate by 18.4%, and we have lawsuits and we have convictions. We do, because in those 18.4% is contained and 6% of the basics that the state was obliged to pay in November 2015. where the pre-conditions for the consummation of an agreement signed under the Agreement signed in 2009 have been created. for public servants. For 5.5 years, this contracted obligation has actually been ignored by public officials, doctors, welfare systems, health workers had no other choice but to sue the state and now we see that this comes at our expense, only at the Ministry of Education instead of the planned 11.5 million, we now need to increase this rebalancing by another 10 million kuna. How did we come to this and why? [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50601	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50602	Thank you very much. Well, I'm trying in these replicas, distinguished MPs, I'm trying in replicas as much as possible to stick to and not overly politicize, but I think here you are now in this replica saying and you mentioned the end of 2015, you know... but it's not realized and it's not fulfilled. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You remember yourself in that mandate as and how the social dialogue with the social partners was going, with the unions. I will repeat once again, it has been a very clear opportunity to consume or activate certain provisions of this Agreement and the fuses, not because something is done against public officials and civil servants, but to do what it is. So, if the fall continues and continues, six years in a row Croatia has had a negative growth rate to achieve a review among other things. We never doubted, and I say it all the time despite a number of criticisms from the private sector that we treat our employees the same way that we should increase and improve rights and give incentives for their work and do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50603	Thank you. We're going to the last line of my colleague Glavasevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50604	Thank you, President of the Parliament. Dear Minister. The government recently made a decision on the acquisition of multi-purpose fighter aircraft that will cost us 999m euros. Our club is against this procurement because we think it's simply inappropriate at this point. We are fighting the pandemic, we are struggling with earthquake recovery, we are fighting jobs, we are fighting green transition, we are fighting poverty reduction in Croatia. But it has been announced that as of next year, it will be going to pay off the war for this incredible cost. My question is, if the decision has already been made to go to that expense since next year, where are we going to cut or not see in next year's projections where we plan to collect? In fact, it's a billion and 875 thousand kuna, a million apologies, 875 million kuna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50605	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50606	Thank you. Your Honor, I really thank you for this question because here so far this is the last replica, so it is good to explain exactly one important topic, the strategic decision of the Republic of Croatia has no time, but you have heard both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Defence and ultimately our soldiers, these pilots and all those who are concerned with the need to strengthen Croatian aviation and prevention of any God-given situation. What you should actually say about you rebalances and to clarify that very clearly, the total cost of the financial that has been said and which you have now mentioned here. So, depending on how it goes and how it will result in the course of the talks and the arrangements for signing the Agreement, it is to assume that they will also ask us to pay some advances. This advance, either this year or next, or whatever year it is, you have to be in charge of that part and get into public debt. As for the deficits and the results of the budget, it is recorded at the time when the first planes arrive, according to this dynamic, we count in 2024, of course all in accordance with the Agreement and the Agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50607	I thank the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance, Mr. Maric. So now we're gonna take a break by 12 o'clock. Then we continue with representatives of the board who will eventually take the floor and then we will go to a club debate. It's 11:00.45.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50608	[[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 12.00 HOURS]] Obviously not, so I'm opening the debate and the first one will speak on behalf of the Representatives' Club of the Most Honored Representative of the Zvonimir Troscott, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50609	Dear vice president of HS, respected colleagues and colleagues and respected citizens of the Republic of Croatia who follow us through the screen. A week ago, it was actually the Government's decision on the rebalancing of the budget, but also on granting consent to the amendments and additions to the HDZ Financial Plan for 2021, in which 200 million unambiguous loans were paid to the Ministry of Finance. Actually, what's this about? It is the money that settles the debt of health care institutions on the basis of final judgments for overtime, which is what I asked the minister himself who led the workers against hospitals and other health institutions, and eventually received a powerful verdict on the basis of which the Ministry of Health had to pay and cover the amounts of the debts awarded. The citizens' department of the Supreme Court, this is what we were asking the question on December 9th 2019, so legal understanding, which is what the decision is, according to which health workers, during the validity of the collective contract, therefore have the right to increase pay for special working conditions, is what Mr. Minister said in these 18.4%, then for certain compensations for the special responsibility that we have had to see in our doctors and nurses who will actually enjoy the highest degree of trust of the citizens of the Republic and at the end of the day, for the additions or these cumulative fees for hours achieved in the early work. Now, what is the problem is that it is certain that second-degree courts will, on the basis of that decision, and also by the very fact that the Supreme Court itself, continue to deliver judgments in favour of healthcare professionals, and therefore against health institutions and what is being asked, if such a setting is now, therefore, the conduct of any proceedings following the first-degree ruling brings additional costs of interest, additional costs of tight interest, court and other costs. And in fact, the question arises that the saddest fact is the following, that precisely from these interest rates, from these tight interest rates, under number 1, they pay the costs of operations. So the Health Fund is taking money where then all these tight interest and interest rates will be paid because of the reckless business of health institutions, and on the other hand it takes the money that is actually intended for hospital treatment costs, for example for the cost of operations. And the question arises why such reckless business? Why such reckless management, and why no sanctions on this matter? So given such case-law, it is now visible what is going to happen, we, ladies and gentlemen, are waiting for new budget rebalancing, several additional hundreds of millions of kunas, regardless of the growth of health care professionals, which is commendable, growing, so here we will have a rebalance of the budget for several hundred million kunas that will pay interest and squeeze interest from the court processes, so that the health institutions know that they will lose them. Now, we are not a destroying party, as Mr. Pavić once knows how to draw us or accuse us, so we also have a proposal for a solution. We didn't get into these fancy-schmancy terms like Nordic models, American models, so we can find much closer models, and let's just say, it's a system of paying classes modeling for a Slovenia where one financial order would actually be introduced. Now, what about health care workers' salaries? So we need to get into analysis a little bit to see the whole problem. So healthcare workers' salaries are actually divided into two components. One is the fixed part, which is about 60 percent, and on the other hand, the additions that turns out to be about 40 percent of the salary itself. So let's say an older doctor in our system is going to get about 11,000 kuna from the fixed section, and from the very additions that we've touched, they're going to get about 8.9 thousand kuna, which, when the two are summed up, about an older doctor in our health system gets about 20,000 kuna net salary. In my opinion, you should get more because for reasons, the trust they enjoy therefore and since they are offered great opportunities both in Dubai and in Switzerland, etc. So these people along with the nurses should get more. But what is the problem is precisely this supplement for the reasons that these supplements are being manipulated and they are actually being used for certain political trade and therefore that unionists also use in their negotiations and that is something that should actually be arranged. In fact, those union games are actually going beyond these supplements to the people of the Republic of Croatia who have to pay for it, so they're just growing, right, those day-to-day supplements are just growing. Now, where the financial order is, here, we are constructive, is to introduce this system of paying classes as well as in Slovenia which would make this system of paying healthcare professionals much more transparent. It would be known by the classes how much who should actually make money, so regardless of these supplements we talked about. So this would mean that from, this would avoid additional borrowings, and hence additional budget rebalancing in the same way, so these rationalisations of these additions as solved by Slovenia itself. Now, citizens of the Republic of Croatia, we love it the same way, when we talk about health care, what happens to a national hospital in Blato. So this has been discussed for years, but there is no solution for these 250,000 m2. Okay, maybe I didn't see it going into some kind of construction right now, I don't see that the City of Zagreb in financial debt, I see that the government of the Republic of Croatia doesn't say anything about it, but the same citizens are then interested in it it's a well asked question Mr. Grmoja, if it's not already going into the construction of entrepreneurial zones why it won't go into the building of a hospital. Why, then, why must the citizens of New Zagreb get into the crowd, go to the nearest hospitals of St. The spirit, the charity, the ribs, so get into these crowds and maybe lose your life because we're not the most efficient here. Now, the question of whether we should have invested in that market of justice half a billion kuna, because it won't lead to reform, so we won't improve the hearings, so we won't improve with new buildings the fact that our processes are actually punishment for, therefore, the defendants. Furthermore, citizens of the City of Zagreb also want to know what is wrong with Dubrava Hospital. So, according to HZZO, it is, for example, a hospital that covers the eastern part of the city of Zagreb, but it was put into operation a few days ago, so they started to open up their capacities, but it also slowly reintroduces itself to the system that it had before Covid itself, but the citizens of the City of Zagreb want to know which period it would be that they could be used to and that they would know where they would be so be able to get health care services. Most of it, here's 80% of the time I used for the hospital part, but I have to go to the entrepreneurial part. So something's been touched by Mr. Bolt himself, so we'll be constructive again. So we're not just here for criticism, but to see what we can get out of this situation. So, Mr. Grumoja has led some half a billion kunas to be spent on the Justice Square, no one really knows what's going to be built there, is that some courts are going to be placed on that square, but in fact it's again a potential opportunity to extract public procurement, draw money, and who for and question is whether we're really going to have a national recovery and resilience based on the Justice Square that we're going to finance half a billion kuna. Okay, the second absurd of that program that we've had opportunity to look at is, say, a water-waste or sewer system where we're going to spend from the economy, so 6 billion kuna. Now, the question in which we will return to the economy is such an investment as the sewer system. If we have not already been able to invest that money from the EU, for example, in companies, for example, 6 billion kunas to give 300 businesses to every 20 million kunas of any kind, so I am not personally in favour of this because I am for the market principle, but on the other hand, if the EU is already giving that money, why not invest it in sectors which are therefore giving returns. Okay, we've already touched that, but what's actually the key is that we missed our chance with this, with this program that we've been talking about and we just want to point out that this mistake really shouldn't happen in the multiannual budget and that we should really involve both economists and entrepreneurs and financial experts or whoever. So, outside of economists who are tied to the government of the Republic of Croatia because at the end of the day they wanted me not to, so mathematics is actually only a simple private sector, so only the private sector can make us competitive and improve economic growth in the long term. Public procurement, public projects can't do that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50610	The next Club of Representatives will be that of the SDP, and time will be shared by the respected representative Hajdas Doncic and the esteemed representative of Lalovac. First honorary representative of the Hajdash Doncic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50611	Thank you, dear Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, the government is increasing the expenditure we've already heard several times today for 9.4 billion kuna, and two key reasons for the increase in expenditure. Thus, this first health recovery, which is visited by 2.8 billion kunas and measures to preserve jobs and cover fixed costs, is the same as around 2 billion kuna. But here we also have an additional 800 million kuna for wages, which means that their annual growth probably exceeded expectations, and what is most important is that at the moment of adoption of that original budget, so in the winter of last year there was already an obligation to increase payments but did not provide funds. So these are just some facts. What concerns us in the SDP is, in fact, a complete inadequacy in solving the overall economic situation which is only a partial result of the Covid crisis, and more or less the consequences of the Covid crisis have been resolved thanks to the intervention funds that the EU has provided, so we can say that we will only have a partial understanding of these government procedures. What further concerns us is the growth of the deficit, which has grown in 2 years to over 40 million kunas, which shows in fact one failure by the government to manage the crisis in one acceptable way. The SDP mentions and repeatedly repeats that this is precisely a multi-annual one, I'm talking about 3-4 neglecting health problems actually also led to the necessity or importance of this rebalancing means where we spend 2.8 billion kuna actually on a health policy recovery. And on the other hand, we don't see any I'm going to say at least a plan or at least some indication of how we're going to solve health problems in the future. I said at the beginning that Minister Maric should be more Vice-President of the Government for the Economy, and less Minister of Finance and that instead of those selective news he knows how to publish such as tax returns or retaining ratings, what is generally okay in public communication, he should give little and more suggestions on how to solve economic recovery problems, which is not the case for now. We all know that in our stories of economic development and economic recovery, the government is solely relying on the National Recovery and Resistance Programme, on European funds. However, if we just rely, therefore on the recovery software documents, we need to know that our national programming documents are late, with which it will probably be late, it is related to each other, and thus will delay the implementation of the National Recovery Plan. Now there's a question of how many of these preserved jobs are actually going to remain really preserved jobs in 3.4.5.6 months, how unfortunately is it going to get lost? I will repeat once again that the Croatian weaknesses seen in this budget are, therefore, weak institutions, corruption, slow and complicated administration, inefficient judiciary, relatively high taxes and contributions, given the level of economic development achieved, we are somewhere at 65% of the EU average, and ultimately a weak and inefficient state. Finally, in this part of the rebalancing process, we are only solving the accumulated debt of healthcare because the major drugstores have been promised to settle these debts, and there is no development moment of the budget, but it is used to collect debts. The question we have heard today only the superficial answer, how real health debts are, we will see how and how the finance minister, the vice-president of the economy will answer that. And finally, we have another remark, a big remark, we're going to see what's less with those 250 million kunas, less in the Reconstruction Fund, and we're going to see how the reconstruction is actually going to be. Comrade Lalovec, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50612	He will now speak to the esteemed representative of Lalovac, please, on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50613	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Minister with his associates. As severe a crisis as it is, or as much as it is intended to show that the Croatian economy is resilient, it is always, the reflection is in the budget and the structure of the economy, the one that is focused mainly on tourism, the renting industry has shown its actual characteristics and through the budgets is that nothing else here could come but to show a strong impact of the crisis on the economy. And when you see that we've put relatively big money into the economy, the real big money to the economy is whether, over 45 billion kuna are actually some kind of health costs, and we see that the economic downturn is one of the biggest, biggest in Europe, along with Spain, Greece, etc. 8%. So you see that huge money is given, and the economic downturn is the same, it's not that it's now about 3, 4 or 5%, so it shows actually the structure of the economy actually on which the largest part of the budget is based and what actually will look like after 9 months is the fact that most of the income comes to us in summer, that everything depends on the tourist season, that a large part of the economy is focused on tourism, so I believe in these certain projections as well as how much the actual deficit actually looks at the end of the year primarily on tourism, right? The building in one part is recovering well, however, I will only perhaps briefly and it is a danger for next year, here my colleague Hajdas Doncic spoke about it, is the problem of inflation. As much as I agree, the minister can't talk about it publicly, but the fact is that the price of material, input materials, doubles, is 100% increase in iron, steel, all materials have increased by 100%. This is what happens in America, something that happens in Europe, the input prices of material will increase so much, will increase this entry costs, will reduce margins, simply cannot either margins or simply competition is. That's what's dangerous and what's expected to go interest rates up there. For the time being, the money still being printed and as far as America is concerned, and as far as Europe is concerned it is trying not to, however, it has been shown to be a period that was 100 years ago. Repeatedly, first it was the Spanish flu, so great inflation in both Germany and all those countries, now it's happening again that the covid is happening and once again the dangers of inflation are great and that's what it is. And why is she still missing? Because the citizens haven't started spending yet. When this perception begins, what was said to begin to consume, to begin to perceive, to lose its value. And look, only now the interest rates in Croatia are zero, and your inflation is over 2%. So all those who hold money in accounts that are not armed lose the value of money, so they can buy less for the value of money, and that is a danger certainly before Croatia, not only Croatia but the EU. It's a good thing we're under the umbrella of Europe, is it shows that we couldn't stand it, to endure this pressure as much as it seems we couldn't stand it if there wasn't a European Commission, if there weren't no such mechanisms. Europe has entered this crisis far more responsibly than it did in the 2013-2014 crisis. and as much as it looks like we are in that club and we use all the benefits of that club and it is certainly also the entry into the European Monetary Mechanism and the EUR-o will certainly stabilise, stabilise in the long term. But what is, the problem is that there is no reform. This is where people from the Department of Health were actually supposed to sit who would say how to patch up those holes in the health care system. There were supposed to be people here who run the pay system, because we're looking for a constant pay increase. And let's not forget, if in the public sector wages grow 20%, they grow twice as fast as the productivity of the economy grows. It's dangerous. This already happened to us once there in 2005-2006, twice as much pay. It's not a problem when wages grow if productivity grows. If the productivity of the economy is growing, and the productivity of the public administration only pumps the wages because we will pump the consumption, that once it breaks, we had a 6-year recession not because it came from outside but because we had structural problems in Croatia. And for that reason, once again, we are in favour of increasing, but my people have to raise productivity and the public sector, and we can't go any faster than the private sector, because when the private sector sees that they grow in the public sector, they pay faster than they do, no matter how much the disbursement leads to imbalances. And that is why, in this context, it certainly needs to be more careful as much as we want to pass on to someone that it is good, that they are pillars and the private sector and that there will be a restructuring of the private sector, so far no one knows. That's what the government and what we expect from the government what the debts in the private sector are. It has been said here that it must be restructured from this rent economy towards the production economy, that was the goal, that is actually the goal of this National Recovery, and that is why here with the finance minister are other ministers who need to defend and speak how they will also restructure the health system. And we've been fighting it, we're going to support it, see if it's just this kind of patching hole just gets to its limits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50614	The next club of MPs will be the green-left block on behalf of which the respected representative Damir Bakic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50615	Mr. Vice President, a respected colleague from the ministry, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. In the Ministry of Spatial Planning and Construction and State Property at the position of the administration and management of the ministry we have an increase in the cost of services by 5 million and 600 thousand kuna or 25%. At the position of maintenance of the fleet we have an increase of a million 230 thousand kuna, which is more than double. At the position of administration and management of the Agency for Reconstruction and Management, we have an increase not by 5 million kuna as it writes, but actually by 9 million and 300 thousand, almost triple. We can't support any of that. The finance ministry at the position of investing in the Three Investment Fund we have an increase of not 42 million as it says 85 million. That's an increase almost by six six times. At the position of the costs of court proceedings we have an increase from 4 to a terrifying 74 million kuna, from 4 to 74. We have a whole new position that wasn't in the original voted budget whose title is Value of Financial Assets, which amounts to as much as 445 million kuna. We can't support any of that. In the Department of Defense at the position of combat armored vehicle one, one combat armored vehicle we have an increase from 5 million kuna to as many as 12 million and 800 thousand kuna. We can't support that in particular. In the Ministry of Croatian Defence at the position of administrations and management, too much expenditure on services has still been raised and amounts to nearly 11 million kuna. At the location of the collection and processing of project documentation for funding from eu funds amounting to 3 million and 200 thousand kunas rose by another million 235 thousand kuna. At the position of one-time rights and other fees to Croatian defenders from the Homeland War amounting to 46 million kuna has risen to more than 80 from 46 to 80. We don't understand any of this, nor have anyone tried to explain it, especially we can't support it. At the Ministry of Science and Education in the position of encouraging work with gifted students we have a one-third reduction. At the position of encouraging extracurricular activities in primary schools we have a reduction of one half of 50%. At the position of encouraging extracurricular activities and in secondary schools the same thing, reduction by one half. Therefore, at the position of support to the Croatian Catholic University in Zagreb, we increase the amount of 25 million and 700 thousand kuna by another 700 thousand. And then again in the position of the Committee on Ethics in Science and Higher Education we have a 50% reduction. And they're finally downgraded for competitions in both primary and secondary schools. We'll never support that. In the Ministry of Tourism and Sports, the position of making a study of Croatian tourism as well as the position of promotion of sports both worth 2.5 million remains intact, and neither last year when the budget was passed nor today, nor at the time we knew, nor today we know what it is and what it is. The position must contribute to top athletes is reduced from 4 million kuna to zero, it is analised. It's deeply disturbing because if mandatory contributions to top athletes can be reduced to zero, if that's no longer necessary now, then the real question is, is it ever necessary? And in the end, two other data that I would especially like to comment on. This rebalancing provides the Ministry of Science and Education to increase the amount of secondary education by 10% and reduce the amount for theatre and musical stage activities programmes by 6.4% in the Ministry of Culture and Media. In reality, however, it is not in the first instance an increase, nor in the second one a reduction. The amendments proposed by an increase of 10%, i.e. a reduction of 6.4%, therefore the amendments proposed do not refer to the original voting budget but to the amounts obtained by redistributions which are in the power of the minister and which have been made in the meantime. If we compare these amounts now proposed to the original ones from the voted budget then it is seen that secondary education de facto remains at the same height, and the amount for the programmes of theatre and musical stage activities not to have fallen but actually increased by 7.7%. That is why this discussion is difficult if not impossible when we talk about percentage reductions and increases because we think that we compare the newly proposed or rebalanced amounts with the original data from the voted budget we are wrong. We, in the table review given to us, are actually comparing these new amounts to some third amounts of redistributions, without anyone telling us what they are and what positions these distributions are made in. To which absurdity can best show the following example. At the position of A579007 a powerful judicial verdict in the division of the Ministry of Science and Education says that we had 21 million 460 thousand kuna and is now proposing the same amount of 21 million 460 thousand kuna. Change in 0%. Who in the rebalancing world is looking at positions where there is no change? It's like it's gone. And the real truth, however, is franticly different. In the original budget in that position, it was not 21 million but 1, 1, 1 to 21 that we came without knowing the redistribution. And now that 21 remains 21 and, of course, it's indifferent to everyone. And if in the document that we're bringing rebalancing we have the attached and originally voted budget then no one would be indifferent to the increase from 1 to 21 for the simple reason that it would then be as visible as it is now invisible. So in order to read the increase and decreases compared to the original budget, you should almost be forensics especially when we get the document in unsearchable form. So as a club we will propose a meeting within this point conclusion and I invite you colleagues and colleagues to support this conclusion. The conclusion that we will ask for the future in the adoption of the budget and budget rebalancing, to give future insight to the representatives in the same table and the original voted previous budget and the actual and actual budget resulting from the redistributions made in the meantime. To once again point out that in real life, these redistributions need even the necessary especially necessary in times like these when an earthquake and a pandemic hit us, we do not question that. It is, however, that it is the appearance of the documents we are getting, but it is our ability to analyse, evaluate and discuss how the proposed budget is both in this case and the proposed changes and additions. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50616	The next Club of Representatives will be the Homeland Movement on behalf of which the respected representative Vesna Vucilovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50617	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian National Assembly. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I don't want to be a lawyer for the Ministry of Finance, but the Treasury Department has informed the committee of redistributions. The board of directors means for finance and the state budget informs us all members every 14 days so that we have insight into everything, most of it wasn't, there was something that seemed to me two or three weeks ago this redistribution. And up to 5% in accordance with the Budget Law means the ministry can work without rebalancing and these are facts, that's the law, we're legalists and we need to stick to the law. You don't have to point that out as some kind of problem. What was evident in the adoption of this year's budget and what I was stressing was that at least one of us is expected, and there will probably be another rebalancing this year. I'm really hoping that he'll be of a technical nature. For this it was not necessary to be visible, there was somehow too much optimism in these macroeconomic projections and it is not bad to be optimistic, but a little too much optimism can lead us astray, and Croatia that has entered the area of expressed macroeconomic imbalances as the European Commission does not really need it. These adjustments were indeed expected even after we adopted the budget but should not be forgotten that we are still in the area where uncertainty is a dominant category and in the first quarter of these figures are not exactly great and what the State Statistics Institute published has somehow passed under the radar related to GDP food in this local elections forest. What was extremely unrealistic was what I expected, and I asked these questions on the board of the secretary of state, and that was about the deficit that was supposed to be 2.9 and now we see that it definitely didn't happen, which was achieved in such a short period of time. I know these goals are dominantly linked to the desire and expectations to introduce the EUR as soon as possible, but I think it will remain on hold for some time. What is interesting is what the European Commission points out in this latest report, and that as an obstacle to economic growth, it sees a lack of labour force and a working-age population. I have spoken of these devastating demographic indicators several times here, and it is interesting that the European Commission, which sees it from Brussels, also points out, and I hope that information will somehow come across the road to the Ban Courts because it seems to be better seen from Brussels than from the Ban Courts. As I said, we are expected to have another rebalancing with, as the finance minister pointed out. I really hope that it will only be technical because the revenues will be far better than planned and I am saying this because I love Croatia and I hope that we will get through this crisis as soon as possible. What I want to point out is that certain activities have had solid results in this crisis, and I am thinking first of all about agriculture, industry, construction, IT sector, and what is most important is the goods exports that have not registered the fall or roughly as a service sector. And this should be some guidance for future development, it should be areas where we should invest far the most in order for our economy to be more resilient in any new crisis that will definitely come again sooner or later. This is one lesson that we must adopt, and as soon as possible, the start of the industry, the launch of agricultural production is crucial and it must be the strategic interest of all governments, and not just these now. That it is possible to witness numerous examples of both new and also companies that have existed for years. What remains the main backbone of our GDP is continued personal consumption and is most expected from the National Recovery and Resistance Plan. This will depend greatly on the ministry led by Minister Tramišak and we have made it a little faster to withdraw the funds but the question is how quickly we can withdraw all of this at our disposal, which is these grants because these deadlines are really short. What is signifiable is the careful planning of results in tourism that pulls the decline of imports of goods, and this indicates that this green blue transversal does not work. Tourism, unfortunately, is not a channel for selling domestic products, but it is based on a clean rent model and will be a growing problem. The main reason is, as has been pointed out so far, the rebalancing of this budget is an increased expenditure of 4.2 billion, and this debate has been very nicely discussed since last week when the opposition was discussed with Minister Beros's impeachment. There are no indications that there will be changes in this sector, and that is what concerns us all, and there must be cost rationalisation, better cost control because, of course, it is not at the heart of the patients. Some will say it's not possible, but we've heard a lot about some IT florists, platforms that don't work, cost a lot of heavy amounts, and that's really the tip of the iceberg because we have to ask what's the price of drugs, we see that these fast home tests are three or four times more expensive in Croatia than in Germany. Then, the conduct of public procurement procedures that often end with DCOM bidders complaining about irregularities in the conduct of procedures and then clinical hospital centres having to pay each of them 10 thousand kuna. Again, we listen to the pangs and disdains of family doctors in the last few days that I can't do my job in quality because the vaccination platform is not working properly again, so this brings back the problem of issuing Covid passports, freedom of movement. And now if you add to this that tourists from Slovakia will come with some paper in Slovak, then we have to ask ourselves if we citizens of the Republic of Croatia are citizens of the second row compared to tourists coming from other countries and of course the next question is whether the border police officers will take a quick course in Slovakia. How will they know if there's a prescription on that paper for sloths or a vaccination certificate? What concerns the fact is that the funds provided for Croatian defenders are reduced and this is a programme of psychosocial empowerment of Croatian defenders and the social entrepreneurship of Croatian defenders. I'm still going to specify some items that are shrinking. So to increase competitiveness in the Ministry of Agriculture's portfolio, the funds are also reduced, then the funds for vegetables and fruit and milk in schools, and by 31.6 million kuna, the means for insurance for children with difficulty in development are all items that should not be saved, and the resources for water supply are increased, the disposal of the same in the Ministry of Agriculture as in the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development, which means that the balancers will continue to work full steam. Interesting announcements are about investing in the Immunological Institute and even building a new one, but there is nothing in this rebalancing and not even some design documentation or idea solution, which suggests that it was still for pre-election promotion. The increase in expenditure will, of course, protect the minister as a result of the epidemic and increased health costs, but it is evident that this ministry run by Minister Beros is not working properly, problems are being pushed under the carpet, and with that, irregularities and affairs. And until the competent ministry gets hold of these problems, there's no movement and there's no movement, and that's what they said, and the other colleagues aren't the exception. I must admit that this rebalancing maintains such a state where we don't know that this black hole called the Ministry of Health will continue to function so that the Homeland Movement won't support this. We think that reforms should be carried out and not only in health but also in public administration, justice and other segments, and most of all we need to move forward with structural reforms so that our economy is far more resistant to all new future crises. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50618	The next club of representatives will be that of the Centre and GLAS, and the time will be shared by respected MPs Mrak-Taritaš and respected representative Pulak, first respected representative Ana Mrak-Taritaš, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50619	Thank you, well-respected vice president of HS, dear secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues. Not so long ago in this House, I was speaking freely about the fact that when some subjects come to the agenda, the sessions have two different things that each other doesn't have much to do with it. One of those things is the parliamentary majority. The parliamentary majority can decide what they want, what they want, and that's why most of them are called, and then we spend days and nights discussing the interpretations and requests for the replacement of some ministers, and the majority of them decide that everything is okay and that they are doing well. This was the case in the case of the Ministry of Health and the competent minister of Beros. Various parties and various MPs have tried several times to prepare reasoned and reasoned proposals on why and how things should be done differently there, including staff selection at the head of the ministry. But as we know, not long ago most of us decided their own, and I repeat again, the fact that most decisions do not necessarily have to do with the truth because now that we have the numbers, when we have the budget rebalance in front of us, then we see what the real state of health is. Of course, the figures and amounts, although they can certainly be interpreted and done, are still incomparably better things and more precise things than the hands of the majority of the Parliament and then from their own budget of the Ministry of Finance you can see what I am here, introducely and emphasized that most have nothing to do with the truth because what is clearly seen from this rebalancing and the resolution minister is not hiding, and that is that our health care is in big problems and indeed the promoter has not tried to hide that problem in any way, I even have the impression that he did not try to improve it. This morning and on the radio very honestly, the minister said that all the laws allowed the transfer of money to health care. This otherwise means that we are at the wall, i.e. it would be best to quote a number of sentences of reasoning, so, in view of the functional classification of expenditures of the state budget, they increase by 9.4 billion kuna, largely due to increased health care allocations of 4.2 billion kuna, social protection in terms of 2.4 billion kuna and general public service of 1.3 billion kuna, with this social protection mostly being support for jobs affected by the crown, and general public services are salaries for employees and liabilities from collective contracts. In other words, support for jobs threatened by the pandemic and collective contracts of civil servants together do not increase the budget nor close as health alone and it cannot be just because of the crown and we all know that it is not just because of the crown. Corona has complicated things, but let's all think together, some other discussions and the data we've heard here. So let's include the data we've heard from the attorney general, in the last year our health system has done thousands and tens of thousands of less preventive diagnostics and all other examinations and procedures than usual. Well, I guess it had to be seen somewhere at the expense. But no, debts gallop and explode. That's because the minister doesn't do well. The whole crew obviously isn't doing well. I understand that the crown has complicated everyone's life and I am not unreasonable to blame Minister Beroš for all health problems, although to avoid confusion, the responsibility of this government is at the head of HDZ and Mr Plenkovic. But regardless of all the fences, good will and understanding, with our health, something is seriously wrong, and Minister Beroš and the team haven't wiped out the dust for two years, and let alone that they've done anything else to make things change, and once again the government announces health reform and debt reduction under control, once again HZZO will do better both the same and the same for years, and the rebalancing we're discussing shows the right picture and we can't accept it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50620	The distinguished representative Marijana Puljak will continue, please, on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50621	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues. In short, looking at these points today in front of us, the rebalancing budget and the budgeting report for last year, so in 2.3 sentences. The debt of the state budget exploded, reached 88.7% of GDP. We've fallen 8%, and we're projecting a 5.2% growth. Without money from the EU through, here, various recovery funds, we cannot achieve the necessary growth of at least 3.5% and catch up with the EU. The pandemic is an excellent recovery for all reforms that have not been implemented for many years, and because of this non-implementation, we have entered this crisis as the poorest country of the EU, and from this crisis we will get the longest out of it, so this is a brief overview of this. I will quote the views and transmit the views and the Commission on fiscal policy which found this to be a significant deterioration in the state of public finances in 2020. I say again the justification for all this is the pandemic, the global crisis that has come ideally to be some general justification for concealing all the structural problems of this country. The expenditure of the state budget is almost 10% higher than in 2019. The debt is here as we said it reached 87.7 or almost 90% of GDP. The increase in the general government deficit in 2020 was as much as 7.4% of GDP, so these are amounts that significantly exceed the reference values of the Stability and Growth Pact. Both criteria of public finances have therefore been exceeded, although even the European Commission has found that these excesses are exceptional for the sake of exceptional circumstances. However, based on next year's projections, they concluded that such excesses as regards Croatia are not temporary. Nevertheless, we can be happy that the European Commission has not decided to launch a corrective procedure for excessive budget deficits. The commission, just one more thing to point out, has therefore proposed to the Government to evaluate previous and current activities in health and economy in order to determine their real fiscal effects on the development of the economy. So here, we have the pandemic as an excuse, we have the European resources and the National Recovery Plan and the resistance that will be ours to keep all these figures from going down and not getting any worse. Structural reforms not implemented, therefore in this crisis have proved to be one of the most important reforms in health. Minister Maric himself said here on some committees, we saw that he couldn't do this anymore. It's a black hole in which we constantly pour new and new funds, and we don't get rid of debts. So the government is putting out the fires in the health care system, but it's not going to produce any kind of fire system. Thus, there is no such system in sight, even here is Prime Minister Plenkovic to quote him a while ago, saying "health reform should be undertaken primarily by those who work in health care to make efforts to reduce expenditure and I think that a greater centralisation, functional integration, better organisation of public procurement could be done in this way." So, says Andrej Plenkovic himself, and then he comes here to the Parliament and defends the minister who does not go out with proposals for reforming his system. The rate of growth for this year is 5.2%, our decline was.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50622	Thank you very much. You're way out of time, I let you go but. ... And I'm sorry, my bad. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50623	Ten more seconds, okay, I got it. Okay, it doesn't matter, but mostly individual discussion, so I can continue. [[Intruder Reiner: you also have a bonus.]] Generally, the reforms we need, therefore, public sector reform, the suspension of state interventions in the economy, political staffing in state-owned companies, judicial reform, health reform, local and regional self-government, facilitating conditions for entrepreneurs to create new values. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50624	Thank you very much. The next club of MPs will be the SDSS on behalf of which the respected representative Dragana Jeckov will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50625	Thank you. Dear Vice-President of the HS, the honourable representative of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. So, as we had the opportunity to hear more than once in front of us is the first rebalance of this year's budget, the first cards have been mixed up we have a certain time gap and we can see where we are and how we stand when it comes to the state budget. These changes and additions of the state budget for 2021 total revenues amount to $150.3 billion, i.e. they increase by €3 billion compared to the initial plan for 2021. On the other hand, the total expenditure of the state budget is increasing by 9.4 billion kuna. According to planned revenues and expenditures, the state budget is expected to record a deficit of 17.1 billion kuna or 4.3% of GDP. We're numbers like we had the chance to hear more than once inexorable and they're just like this. The mentioned deficit may seem dangerous and frightening in some other context and time, but given the need to bear in mind all the troubles that have found us lately, I would dare say that such a lack is acceptable and that it is in acceptable gauges. This is also supported by the fact that our deficit should be at the level of other EU member states who have fought the crown, but not with earthquakes. This is as if nothing else represents a positive reference in the context of the further accession of the Eurozone, as we have had the opportunity to hear from the esteemed Minister in replicas. In light of the bad circumstances affecting us in terms of earthquakes and crowns, there is no need to ignore the fact that, compared to last 10 months' projections, GDP growth projected for 2021% of the 5% was minimal growth of 0.2%, so let's face it, it's not some growth, but given all of these circumstances, however. This rebalancing refers primarily to the resolution of the negative consequences in the field of health, or as a rule for the settlement of health system debt according to large-scale drugs, and additional funds have been provided for the recovery of healthcare institutions of 1.4 billion kuna. No matter what the situation with the coronaryvirus is improving from day to day, so it is said that we are opening up and repairing the blood count of society, it is good that the state has heard, so there are increased allocations to support jobs in activities affected by the coronary virus of 2 billion kuna, and there are additional resources for the granting of support to sectors in culture, tourism and transport and, of course, it is largely around 150 million kuna, so it is foreseen in these paragraphs. What is worrying about my club and why we certainly express concern is the fact, and time will also show whether the increase in funds in the central state office's refurbishment and housing rate of 70% of the total amount of over 150 million kuna is enough to co-finance the reconstruction? In particular, on the site of reconstruction of housing units after the earthquake in the area where the disaster was declared to be nearly 117 million. At the end of the 11th month last year I spoke about the budget for this year and then I spoke about the draft budget from the aspect of the national minority and I believe that something needs to be done from this perspective and there is still an opportunity to say something concrete, and as far as financing and the work of Croatian Waters is concerned. According to field estimates in areas where the majority of Serb national minorities, which are mainly made up, are mostly in the first group, a major serious problem is the construction, recovery and restoration of water in nearly 100 villages throughout the Republic of Croatia. It is about settlements that are not yet connected to the water supply system, some villages are completely waterless, some water pipelines are destroyed during the war, somewhere there are local water supply lines where big losses occur, and water lines with asbestos pipes whose quality is certainly questionable. The particular problem that we receive from the field of concrete therefore from the management of these municipalities is the financing of water pipelines precisely in these municipalities that are in the first and second common development when they have an obligation to secure 10% of their own resources. So let's say one plastic example, if the value of the project is, say, 25 million kuna over 3 years, which is something like a million dollars a year, which is about a million and 250 thousand, that amount is some of those budgets of JLS that belong to the first group almost unattainable and makes up more than 70% of the JLS budget. I would therefore propose one of the existing modes on this occasion, which is that when providing its own water resources in the municipalities of the first group of development, the decision most similar to the decision of the Governing Council to co-finance such projects in a 100% amount, as is the case, in the case of Bania. As a rule, I will also talk about the items concerning members of national minorities, they remained at the same level, especially when we talk about the items of promoting the education of national minorities, the specific education programmes for the implementation of national minorities' programmes, and the education and education of members of national minorities. However, I remain in my position that it would be necessary to increase funds for preschool education for children members of national minorities. However, this is probably more likely to be said in the next rebalancing or in the next budget. I will repeat that infrastructure improvement programmes in areas populated by national minorities are very important and create assumptions for staying in areas where members of national minorities traditionally live. As a result, I certainly positively assess the fact that the development of assisted areas, i.e. the improvement of infrastructure in areas populated by national minorities, has led to an increase of 5 million kuna in the framework of the Ministry of Regional Development and EU funds. It is certainly a fact to be welcomed, and I am sure that it, just as I said, will be used to improve infrastructure in areas where members of national minorities traditionally live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50626	The next Club of Representatives will be the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Grozdana Peric will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50627	Honorable Vice President, Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We have three important documents ahead of us, and this is an amendment to the Republic of Croatia's 2021 budget with projections '23-'24. Amendments and additions to the plans of extra- budget users and the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget for 2021 and the Proposal for the Annual Report on the Implementation of the State Budget for 2020, it is well discussed that it is united because the best way to see is to see the impact of this very crown of crisis and all measures taken since the beginning of 2020 on here and how many effects it has taken and how much the government itself has affected the preservation of both jobs and the preservation of the entire economy. When we look at the macroeconomic framework that was drawn up in April 2001 and that so-called Convergence programme for the period 2022 to '24. We see that, in these projections, the development of the pandemic has had a profound impact on the dynamics and budget itself, but it also speaks of how much the expected dynamics of the dispersal of the population can have a positive impact on the economic outlook. The Convergence Programme itself provides for a growth of 5.2% of GDP and includes the impact of the National Resistance and Recovery Programme, which will affect the recovery itself and GDP growth of 0.3 percentage points in 2021. Personal consumption is also the main driver of domestic demand growth, and gross investment in fixed capital will also be affected. Of course part of this is the impact of both state consumption and changes in the supply category. What is needed from the beginning and always to say that indeed in the previous 3 years and 4 years, the Republic of Croatia and the Government have taken every effort to stabilise public finances and achieve surpluses at annual levels, and the government has just used this entire created fiscal space for fiscal support for the purpose of preserving life and health, as well as maintaining employment and overall economic activity. So the overall financial effect of the crown crisis so far is more than 32 billion kuna, which is extremely demanding compared to the overall budget options. There is, of course, all that, all those losses from achieving revenue to the actual measures taken in the context of public finances. This led to the fact that the growth of employment and wages and tax and non-taxable redundancies was as high as possible, and in all these difficulties it was actually successful in July 2020 to launch and access the European Course Mechanism. All of this has been recognized by international institutions, so here's what I mentioned and the World Bank itself has increased our rating in recent forecasts. What should be reminded, however, is that from January 1, 2021, there was a reduction in profits for entrepreneurs, so those who make up to 7.5 million kuna, so the rate of reductions from 12 to 10%. Also, income tax rates have been reduced from 36 to 30 and 24 to 20 respectively, and good small-value imports have been abolished since July 2021. The total revenues of the state budget are therefore 15.3 billion kuna, thus increasing by around 3 billion kuna compared to 2021. This results in an increase in revenue from EU funds of 1.4 billion and tax revenues and contributions of around 751 million kuna. On the other hand, expenditures are increasing by 9.4 billion and they are now planned at an amount of 167.4 billion kuna, which is why we need to separate the part that affects the result of the €7.1 billion budget and the part that does not affect €2.3 billion are European sources. This is expected to cost less than 17.1 billion kuna, which is 4.3% of GDP. All of this, when looking at the structure of income, is evident that in this way it has really affected that everything that was necessary was provided in redistributions, and now and in the final changes actually enables the functioning of health, social protection and contributes to general public services or the needs of expenditure for employees. What we should certainly say is that, and this is also through the opinion of the Committee on Fiscal Policy, we said that all this was done and the way it was done as far as the borrowing itself was concerned was necessary, given that in this way those effects were achieved, and this is primarily the preservation of jobs and protection from this particular epidemic. What will certainly and which has been mentioned that all these procedures and measures have been made, in fact, the way to be used for the consolidation of public finances in 2022 and thus has been projected, and the Law on Amendments to the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget, where they are formally formalised into the legal procedures of all these procedures that have been made in this rebalancing. When we talk about 2020, then it is also important that there has indeed been a fall of 8% of the real domestic product and that the real impact and dependence of our economy on tourism has been demonstrated, which will surely have to be and must change if we want to welcome the preparedness of any other crisis. However, what should be pointed out is that the unemployment rate, for example, was in 2020. 7.5%, which is more by 0.9 in 2019, but there was no much greater erosion and impact on unemployment in the economy. What should certainly be pointed out is that this negative impact of the pandemic in 2020 was highlighted through a significant reduction in income, but also on the side, the expenditure side of expenditure associated with the fight against pandemic, and this is actually a transitional period and the use of all those opportunities guaranteed that this deficit can actually be justified and seems necessary, but this way will also take all measures that will further spill over and further erosion of the budget itself, but also possibly anything that could be possible. The impact, in fact, makes sure that this does not happen and the HDZ Club will support all of these documents. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50628	The next club of representatives will be the IDS, and will be answered by respected representative Marin Lerotić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50629	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Unfortunately, this rebalancing which is ahead is only a final confirmation of poor economic policies and an indication that there is no political will to solve the structural problems of Croatian public finances. It was during the adoption of the 2021 budget in November last year that we made it clear that such a drawn budget would certainly not make any progress and would not lead to any significant shift, which is what we can see now when we look at it in the last six months. We have submitted amendments as a whole opposition, I can say, we have proposed concrete projects that would strengthen the economy, education, the health system, but there has been no hearing from the ruling ones, and now we are in a situation that we have to dig holes because unfortunately this rebalancing is just that. The patching of holes in a way that increases such a huge public debt. In particular, it is expressed in health care where the rebalancing represents, not only the patching in financial but also in the operational sense of the work of a government that is not known or unable to catch a cornerstone with the problems we have in the health system. We've already spent two billion kunas in redistribution for wholesalerry, and now we have a rebalance that increases our deficit, and that clearly means new borrowing. Nearly 3 billion kunas are foreseen by this debt rebalancing rebalance to large-scale drugs, which now means almost 5 billion kunas in total that we have thrown into the wind because of the unsustainable health system. We need serious reforms in health care that will make the system sustainable, not cosmetic changes that only prolong the existing agony of the health system and simply generate new debts. This problem has been warned for years and it's just amazing that so far we've done absolutely nothing. Today, we must encourage the consumption of serious tax reforms and allow GDP to grow faster because in order for Croatia to start to catch up with more developed countries or EU member states, our GDP must grow at least 3.5% annually. The National Recovery and Resistance Plan itself states that, according to projections with the impact of the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, growth is projected in 2021. 5.2%, 2022. 6.6%, 2023. 4.1%) and then we come to 2024 where we are already below those 3.5% and 2025 to only 2.7%, which acknowledges that Croatia is not able to sustain the annual GDP growth itself after the initial recovery from the epidemic and that without money from the EU, it would fall to a miserable growth of 2.7% of GDP in 2023, and this is not enough for Croatia to catch up with the EU's richest economics member states. Even with EU funding, GDP growth will fall below 3.5%, as I noted, already in 2024. So low growth rates, we will continue to lose steps for more developed EU countries, and prove that without financial assistance, Europe is doomed to the very beginning when we speak economically. And in order to achieve high annual economic growth rates, it is necessary to create an encouraging positive investment climate, a system that will attract foreign investment. It is necessary to remove bureaucratic obstacles, reduce the state administration to make Croatia a investment-friendly country. Legal security and business climate in Croatia are also at low levels, and the state must be a service to entrepreneurs and craftsmen, not to create obstacles to their business. Because this rebalancing unfortunately increases the expenditures of 9 billion kuna compared to the original planned plan of 2021, which means that we will have a deficit of 17 billion kuna at the end of this year, if it is not even bigger and the citizens have to hear it, the citizens need to know it, and I think it's really time that we all finally realize that this is just not going to work anymore because it's taking too long.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50630	The next club.../incomprehensible/... now we're done with clubs and we're going to have an individual debate and the first one will speak to the respected representative Anka Mrak-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50631	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS, dear colleagues and colleagues. So, the topic of today's debate is the combined rebalancing of the budget, and the Prime Minister also told us that the topic and we had this debate and on committees, in fact, the expenditure side. No wonder after the year in which the crown was in, no wonder after the earthquake that hit Croatia that it had to go into rebalancing and any reasonable person looking at the rebalancing, it is clear that it was something that had to be done. But what I'm going to highlight in this individual debate, the topic that's extremely on my heart is the restoration. The restoration from earthquakes and Zagreb, as well as the space of Banija, the hair line, Banovina. Let me remind you, in 13 days, there will be 15 months from that first earthquake in Zagreb, and then when you look at little what is happening in Zagreb, you will remain in wonder, but when you look at the budget rebalance, you will also remain in wonder. Instead of the budget rebalancing and the activity showing that the activities had started, that the renewal had started, that the hope had started for all these people that something was happening because if nothing was going to happen, we, who would fill the budget? How do we charge the budget? So, if the renovation had started, systematic, complete as the law said, in Zagreb would have been building activities, it would have been a question of who would, who would do it, but would have the absolute opportunity to know that something was happening and that there was some hope. But when you look at the rebalancing related items of the City of Zagreb, Krapina-Zagorje County and Zagreb County, there is a minus of nearly 250 million kuna and a reduction of damage caused by more than 180 million kuna. Why, for what? Why didn't it start? The Director of the Fund as if he were a time chronicler and then he says that here, decisions are made for a long time, he doesn't believe himself to be renewed, he wants to speed up, he says institutions need to do their jobs, that the law is technically and legally complex. That's the truth he gives in cellophane because the truth when you move that cellophane that the law is technically and legally complex is that the law is bad and impermeable. And instead of admitting it, to make changes and to supplement the law, to start finally doing something, we act, or I, but really ruling, they just find the situation that is. And the situation is that, after 15, about months of the earthquake in Zagreb, believe it or not, it was issued in 3 solutions for the destruction of 3 houses. At that rate in about 116 years, there we are, and we've betrayed all the solutions, and when the reconstruction starts, we don't know. And this rebalancing really when you look at the context of the accompanying comments of the Director of the Fund says that's the case. The minister in the replicas he had, it fits like that, very much in his gloves and of course he's not even ready to say what and how it's going to be, but let's look the truth in the eye. At the end of last year, the Ministry of Finance, or budget, paid funds to rebuild buildings for public purposes. Those funds must be used within 18 months. Imagine what will happen and what image will it be if we don't take advantage of it? We're gonna embarrass ourselves, we're gonna show that we don't even know what we're getting, we're gonna manage, we don't even know what we're doing. This country may have the best, most decent, most capable finance minister, but he can't do anything if others do bad, sloppy and without looking into the future. There are two examples that talk about it, and they say everything. One example is health care, and another example is unfortunately renewal. When you have the opportunity, you need to take advantage of this opportunity, and the opportunity is to rebuild Croatia's development But unfortunately, we won't take that chance. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50632	The next debate will be respected representatives of Mariana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50633	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President HS, Mr. Secretary of State, MPs and MPs. It is clear to all of us that this rebalancing was necessary in view of the circumstances we are in, but also the consequences caused by the covid crisis. It has increased support for job conservation, provided additional resources for healthcare, and increased co-financing of European projects for local and regional self-government. In particular, I would like to refer to the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture, which has been increased in the segment of the rural development of the common agricultural policy by 839 million kuna, and it has been redistributed to other items of the ministry in accordance with the current moment and needs of farmers. Since the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic, a series of emergency intervention measures and activities have sought to contribute to the normalisation of the situation on the agricultural products market, and the allocation of support has also provided the liquidity of Croatian farmers and the preservation of jobs, thus alleviating the effect of the pandemic. As part of these intervention measures, over a billion and 23 million kuna have been secured, over 488 million kunas have been paid to 11,000 users in the agriculture sector so far. I will also remind you that nearly a billion kunas are secured for agriculture in the National Recovery and Resistance Mechanism. We need to use this money until 2026, the rebalancing now provides for 13 million kunas for the digital transformation of agriculture, for the improvement of the system for the restructuring of agricultural land and commercialisation and for the improvement of the food donation system. Since we provided money within the NPO for the construction of 7 fruit and vegetable distribution centres, it certainly encourages the ministry to plan these funds into the budget as soon as possible and to start implementing these projects. I positively assess in this rebalancing the increase in resources for state and de minimis support. It also increases the funds for veterinary and food safety that are planned for monitoring programmes, animal and plant health, as well as for the sustainable use of pesticides, which is also important because of the green transition that we seek. The budget also provided for the allocation of small-value support for earthquake recovery in the wood sector and those entities operating in Sisak-Moslavina, Zagreb and Karlovac County, 11 contracts were signed and 5.1 million kuna were awarded. The total amount planned for this activity is reduced by rebalancing, as we heard the explanation, due to the problem of producing the necessary documentation of potential support users. This points to our well-known old story that we need to simplify the demands that we put before our budget users because obviously these requirements are still too complicated and then we may find that the money we have provided will remain unused and is needed in the sector. I would particularly apostrophe of the rural development measure which is now in the 5.2.1 contest for the restoration of agricultural land and production potential for which a significant number of documents are required of farmers, but the problem is also the pre-financing required of them. I think it's clear to everyone that those farmers who died in the earthquake can hardly find the initial sufficient resources to invest in the restoration of their economies. So I would like to appeal here to the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Agriculture to try to find a common solution to these situations and in some ways make it possible to pre-financing. Also when we adopted and listened here to the presentation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia programme, the problem of poorly developed areas of Banovina, Like, Gorski Kotar and Dalmatia Zagora was recognised. Two billion kunas are secured for that. Given the earthquake that hit Banovina, I would argue that the Banovina project is separately isolated because the needs are very high and we need to act urgently to keep the population in the area.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50634	Thank you. We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Ivanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50635	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear MPs, that most of these changes are related of course to covid and all that has happened and most of course the money will go to health care. But what makes them happy and perhaps gives some hope to people who are engaged in agriculture and domestic production is precisely this increase. I believe that the government and the Ministry of Finance have recognized essentially how self-sustaining it is in these difficult times, being self-sufficient, that's a lot of talk, I think that this increase here is almost one billion kuna only through this one segment is just a hunch that something that's going to come into the budget for 2022 will open that story that we're completely telling, and it's not actually happening.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50636	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50637	Thank you very much. My colleague Ivanovic, I certainly think it is very important to invest in agriculture in order to achieve the competitiveness of our farmers on the common European market. It is not an easy task for them because of the competition which is inexorable and which has been much better prepared than we have because they have been using European funds for many years. But also if we want this situation in which we have all found ourselves, and the agricultural sector is affected by the covid crisis with many challenges in some way, then we must surely react. Of course, there are financial resources Wednesday because today we are talking about budget rebalancing but I would also like to remind you of a series of laws that we have discussed in the Croatian Parliament in the past, some of which we also adopted in other readings aimed at improving the situation in agriculture and strengthening the position of farmers.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50638	The Republic has a respected representative, Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50639	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Petyr, I was moved by the replica when you mentioned the documentation to be delivered. I, no matter what side of the assembly we sit on, no matter what club we belong to, I think it's common to all of us that we have to do something to make things better for people, to enable them to work, to allow them when it comes to agriculture to deal with it, to provide conditions for housing, education and everything else. I often feel like someone's playing with people, like they're making up what kind of paperwork we still have to deliver and figure out just when people figure out what to do, how to go, let's just come up with another piece of paper because it's just going to confuse that paper. I don't understand why. So we have e-citizens, we have the data we can have, we can get the data, but even when someone collects 8 kg of documentation, I'm not exaggerating, then one minister says so you can see that they can.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50640	Thank you. Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50641	Thank you very much. Mr. Dark Taritash, I agree with you that we need to reduce administrative requirements. In this regard, there is also a new common agricultural policy that has recognised this problem because it is seen in the end when the Court of Auditors gives its reports that things are recorded on the documentation and on the papers that there are many and too many in those requests. For this particular measure, which I was talking about after the earthquake, I know that the Ministry of Agriculture has asked for the simplification of the European Commission's tender requirements, but obviously until the common agricultural policy at European level agrees in a new format, we will have to slave for such increased demands that I find unwarranted and difficult to respect especially in these circumstances. Of course I'm familiar with the fact that Vice President Medved has made great efforts along with other resolutions to open an office for restoration in Petrinja, where all other ministries would be present and help to people who meet their demands. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50642	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be respected representatives of Sandra Bencic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50643	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, so I'm going to talk about the aspect of the defence and security budget because very often I say and it's actually shown to be true that the only policy we have is the one that we can read from the budget, and everything else is such beautiful stories. What's not in the budget is actually not going to happen. And it's not worth one thing, though, which is that there's no largest item in the budget that the minister himself said today that he doesn't know if he's coming to collect this year or next, which is buying fighter planes. So we buy or buy fourth generation or fourth even, plus a generation, for a total of EUR 999 million, like this Todorovic price of 999. So as the Green-Left Block Club, we've already taken our stand on the purchase of fighter planes. We are aware that there is a need, and we believe that this should be resolved in a future period of time, but we also believe that this year and next year the financial priorities should be a post-traumatic recovery and recovery of the economy and the citizens and health system from the pandemic. It's just that we've had two huge threats, two huge risks that have come true and we don't see significant increases in the budget for them, and for some potential future risks, we're putting aside a billion euros. So, I'll repeat what already respected Brigadier Selak I said about getting these planes. He said we don't even have infrastructure for those planes, we don't have pilots trained for those planes, and we don't have technicians. So he stated that aircraft of such a fourth generation must have conditions for staying at all, so we need to build hangars, workshops, armored concrete shelters, and that the worst and most expensive way to get planes is to get a plane that is expensive and then only to establish a maintenance system on it. He suggested that we negotiate with the Allies at the initial stage until in the next five to ten years we can establish that infrastructure and the system to negotiate, take cheaper planes, take them to the Leasing so that our pilots can train, so that we can have a certain number of hours of flight, and that when the infrastructure is set to go then, we go shopping and that of modern planes. Also, you have to ask the question that if we were really getting those planes for Air Police, which was a very common argument that we could hear why we had to purchase then we really shouldn't have gotten one of the best fighter planes in the world because for Air Police we could have far cheaper planes. However, that cost I'm talking about is not all the cost we're going to have on those planes. So, an hour of plane purchases, i.e. those we get from €17 to €18,000, and if they want to make the most of it, they should give their maximum of 8000 hours of flight within 10 years. This means that only hours of flight without infrastructure, without maintenance, without anything in the next decade will cost us another billion kuna per plane or 6 billion kuna in flight costs alone. At the same time, we are reducing already a minor cyber security budget as a small country with high risks in the area. We're going to digitize, we're going to digitize, and we're not cutting costs for cyber security, so the dumber we can't do that. Also, if they invested in cyber security, they would use their domestic brains and technology because in this area we have, and this is pure imports and giving to other countries billions of euros. I would like to stress that we are doing all this in the year when Minister Marić cannot answer how much money was given, reserved in the budget for the reconstruction of private apartments and houses in Zagreb, Zagreb and Krapina-Zagorje County because why he does not want to answer us, the answer is such that there is no need because they are not created of course because we have no solutions. Why don't we have a solution? So we don't have items in the budget. So everything this budget shows is to give priority to exporting money instead of investing in what the risks in Croatia are realized. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50644	Thank you very much, we have several replicas, the first respected representative of Pavić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50645	Dear MPs, unfortunately it's not the only data we don't have. You referred to health problems. I'll draw attention to the fact that we don't have the right information on how much health care is due. We know how much healthcare is owed to third parties, but how real the health debts are don't know that. Why don't we know that? Because the hospitals went down, especially if we're talking about special hospitals. Why did they go to the minuses? Because they had too little money anyway, and now they had Covid, when Covid was a crisis they couldn't receive patients and couldn't have their own incomes. After what happened, they couldn't meet their obligations according to what HZZO gave them, so they went to minus HZZO. The rest of them are debts to workers, they're left with debts to the equipment they need to have, and we really can't know how much health care is due. And how then we're going to make some suggestions and make some of these suggestions here to the minister and to this government if we don't know what the real numbers are.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50646	That's true.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50647	Your Honor, can I give you my word or am I too high in here? Here you go, dear representative Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50648	Thank you. Well, thank you for this comment, counselor, I think that one of the problems is that we have a general budget coming to us and when the budget itself comes original and when the budget documentation comes for rebalancing is not transparent enough first. That's the first thing. The items were made in such a way that we don't really know what they were going through, and we saw today our representative Bakic talking about that we actually, in the part that's the original budget, don't get the original budget that we voted here, but the one that's already redistributed to which absolutely the Ministry of Finance has the right, where the items have already been changed, and we can't even see it. Yeah, we can't even see what things are health debts, so how do we decide what our funding priorities are? Priorities, priorities are set in a tight circle of people within the government, that's not being discussed here, and then here's what we have for priorities. We have priority planes that we'll get for how many years I don't know. And on which the first three, four, five, we may not be able to fly. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50649	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed counsel of Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50650	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues Bencic and I disagree politically, of course, but I recognise your consistency while you were at the Peace Studies Centre against Croatia's entry into NATO, you asked for the demilitarisation of Croatia. Of course, the reality is that we live in the world and in the environment as it is. And investing in defense, we can, we can discuss whether this is the best form or the other, but investing in defense is necessary. Serbia, for example, is Had a budget rebalance in April, of course they went through the pandemic, and you know how much they increased the defence budget 44% in that rebalancing. So it's a real world where we're moving today, and because of that, it's clear that we have to invest in our security, in the defence sector, because that's also a presumption of peace and for the safety of all our citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50651	Dear representative Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50652	Thank you, Comrade Stier. I absolutely do not argue that we must invest in the defense. I just said that I believe that in this time of 2021 exclusively invest in the kinetic elements of the defense, not in what are actually new and very real and very high threats like cyber security doesn't seem smart to me. Besides that money doesn't stay in Croatia, but every time we buy it, we get armored vehicles like we have planes here, it goes out. Cyber security could also develop its own capacities. Secondly, what you said about Serbia increasing, I really want to say that if our defence investment is going to be dictated by the Vucic government, really whether we're going to allow it, we're in NATO, they're not, so does this NATO bring us anything from that defence and security, or does our budget It will not be dictated by the Wolf, so it will not be dictated by the Wolf. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50653	The next replica of the respected representative Glavasevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50654	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bencic, when you were talking about the planes we're getting, in response to my earlier question, Minister Maric actually said something that seems worth asking me about. So we'll start paying at some point when that agreement is concluded, but those costs will actually be booked only sometime later. So that's, then we have one hidden cost, I think the question is actually the accounting and transparency of those costs. So I find that very difficult.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50655	Dear representative Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50656	I thank you, I apologize. Yeah, that's another problem, so we don't know when it's going to be booked, I don't think it's some kind of defetism of the current government that thinks they're going to lose the next election and leave it to the next government to pay the costs of the plane, but we generally have a problem with the level of data, the budget data that comes here. We have already warned that, yes, therefore Parliamentarians we all who sit here may be, but the vast majority are not therefore experts in finance or people who know how to handle budget data well and that these data should be clear, transparent and otherwise perhaps shown. And so we know exactly when it's when we're in charge of something now, when, in what year, it starts to be recorded as a debt. Yeah, that's all the things we should know to make a competent decision. Unfortunately, we do not have such a system of reporting to the Assembly on budgetary issues.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50657	The next replica of respected MP Vucilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50658	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Bencic, once you said when it was Homeland War, you were a kid, so you don't really remember spending it in Osijek with me who was a girl at the time, then you'd be very happy with the decision that our government buys planes. We didn't even have Kalashnikovs at the time, let alone planes, so we went as we went. Ask the people in Vukovar how they went. I'm not very happy with the choice of suppliers, but the fact is that Croatia doesn't make airplanes, it would be great if we produced planes, but we don't produce them. And as for bookkeeping and financial literacy, there are a number of seminars, whoever wants it can be in relatively short, you have finances for non-financialists, it's a very short seminar, you learn basics relatively quickly, and the planes are not a loaf of bread, good day, 4 kunas of bread. So you can't expect such a complex job to be booked now and I don't know why you're even discussing it when it's not even in this rebalancing... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50659	Thank you. Dear representative Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50660	I thank the chairman. Here, MP Vucilović, I will answer you now. I didn't say I didn't remember the war, and I remember very well, so I spent my time in a dorm room with three roommates from three different war districts, and I know very well what happened to them because 3.g. They couldn't go home, nor could they get in touch with their parents. So don't talk about things you don't know or have full information. Secondly, if I agree that it is necessary and I said that it is necessary to invest in the defense, I was also talking about alternatives that maybe we should have gotten cheaper planes that we could immediately start using and that our pilots would be trained for. Third thing, today we're the same in '91. All those who did not live in the war area were in solidarity with those areas that were wartime. I really expect you to be in solidarity with the population living in the houses today in 2021 as if the war was yesterday because it was an earthquake, the population of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50661	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed MP, Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50662	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. My colleagues Bencic, you mentioned the restoration at the end of your presentation. The Rehabilitation Act was not long ago, and we from our club voted against it, not because we wanted to be bad or anything, but we stressed that the law was not enforceable, which has proved to be true today. And it's logical that Minister Maric can't answer that because at this point, we still don't know what houses to be built, when it's going to be built, whether it's going to be built, whether it's going to be built, even if there's not even a man from Zagreb who we've had the opportunity to hear and where the house is going to be destroyed, he doesn't know when he's going to be replaced, and at the rate he's going to be going, there's not even one house, so in the building you have absolutely clear indicators, you have to crash something, you have to do something, you can work in summer and autumn, you can't, and in fact this winter it's the renovation that doesn't have, the shame of this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50663	Dear representative Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50664	Dear Representative Taritash, I absolutely agree with you that this is a disgrace to this government. I also agree with that, you remember that we also talked and warned about the parts that we thought would be difficult to implement, we gave alternatives, the government didn't adopt them, and most of them here because you said it would be settled in implementation. Nothing has been resolved, so the ministry has not been able to do in the nine months since the law was passed or eight, bring more than, how many, 18 solutions, 20 that are 50, that is 100 and not so many. So, it's amazing, but I don't think it's an accident and it's not even a legal problem, it's a political will problem because it seems to me that it's deliberately done so that I don't have to reserve the funds in the budget for the reconstruction of private houses and apartments because Zagreb, Krapina-Zagorska and Zagreb County are left at bay according to this rebalancing budget, and it's clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50665	The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Bojan Glavasevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50666	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Budgeting is not an easy and easy job, each budget reflects the priorities of the government, and these priorities should also be consistent with the needs that are current after the earthquake or with the effects of the pandemic in all areas of life and with the long-term objectives and investments in the development of society. This is also in normal circumstances in this country a huge challenge, and in the circumstances that we are currently in, which are so far from normal that the concept of "new normal" is lexicalized in language, it is almost impossible. And that's why it's very important to keep an eye on the priorities. My role as a representative of the opposition is not to praise the government, but to constantly question it and therefore I want to talk about something that I consider very problematic, first of all from the perspective of priorities, then from the perspective of long-term political goals and finally from the perspective of methodology. In his presentation on behalf of our club, Bakic mentioned an item called "investment in the Three Seas Investment Fund". The budget adopted by this assembly envisioned 15 million kuna. Then, by redistributing the amount, the ministry raised to 54 million kuna, which in itself is extremely problematic because it represents a huge increase that would now be increased by an additional 42 million kuna in the rebalancing proposal. From 15 million to 96 million is quite a leap, isn't it, and everything in silence without explanation and without the document sent to this assembly showing the original amount that the assembly voted. It's not even non-transparent. My colleagues and colleagues, it's cloudy and shallow. I use these words because in circumstances where Croatia is currently even more than usual, every kuna of taxpayers must be spent on purpose and on their well-being, let alone the amount of $96 million. The deeper problem, however, lies in what these money is actually given for. The three seas initiative failed for Croatia a completely useless project pushed by the former president. Not only is he almost useless but he is also lost and deprived of more serious support in the international community.../The speaker speaks in a foreign language./... he would say Colregs in one of his most famous songs. At the political level, this initiative excludes countries with which Croatia has long-standing partnerships and pushes us towards countries like Poland, which is currently the main advocate of this initiative. Let's move on, our constitution provides for a prime minister and the president must coordinate on such matters. President Milanovic spoke publicly on several occasions that he did not agree with Croatia's participation in the project. Maybe that's why 96 million kunas under the grain are being spent this way. If there is no agreement on this and this kind of cost has no political legitimacy. There is no political legitimacy either because of the fact that this fund is focused on investments in fossil fuels. As a result, moral legitimacy is questioned. Instead of giving 96 million kunas for domestic production of energy from sustainable sources and equipment for this as solarists, the government gives this money to be careful in the best case of fossil fuel production. Where did the story of the green transition we've heard so much about go missing? And since the trimarium story is politically dead, I'm afraid the truth is unfortunately much simpler. In this way, citizens and citizens of Croatia will finance some secretion of this fund initiative where, according to good old practice, HDZ will arrest several party earners from the prime minister's misery of love just so that these people will work on something that will not bring any benefit to Croatia and which is, what is only today can be served if we are honest as a chessboard for the economically cold war of great forces. To this end, this government wants to give 96 million kuna and this after already giving 20 million euros or 150 million kuna for this same story last year. And Zagreb and Banija were destroyed after the earthquake, and people were out of work, and the health system before the shooting as well as many entrepreneurs, poverty that is always the cancer of the wounds in Croatia. The popular dictionary says, "Did we fight for it?"
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50667	We've got two replicas. He's the first respected advocate of Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50668	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. We've discussed this initiative many times, but we're not going to do it again, but I think we still need to determine the facts. So this initiative that I support and respect your opinion or other opinions that I may be against, but it has been initiated and has received strong support from the Obama administration and the new Biden administration has also strongly supported it. A few days ago, State Secretary Anthony Blinken also gave strong support to the initiative. Of course we can discuss whether or not we need a strong relationship with the United States, I think it's good for Croatian national interests, but when we talk about this initiative then we still have to highlight these points because these are facts So she has the support of the current U.S. administration. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50669	Thank you for your comment, colleague Stier, but I think you've also been foreign minister, I think you know very well what it means on one side of the declarative support of someone as a bravo team, just go ahead and stand up to the Russians and it suits us perfectly, and what real support means. The real support of this initiative was given exclusively by the United States at the moment of Trump's administration when Mike Pompeo at one point promised a certain amount of money for the story. All this other fellow Stier, we may not agree, but from my perspective it's a pat on the shoulder, it's nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50670	The Republic also has a respected representative, Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50671	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Glavasevic, Croatia's European path as NATO member states is our main concern not to cross bilateral co-operation and strengthen bilateral relations with other countries, including those you have touched, perhaps not directly but indirectly. It would not agree with you that the Three Seas Initiative would not bring good Croatia, it would mention definitely strengthening both port and rail and road infrastructures, strengthening Croatia's foreign political and strategic position in relation to Central European countries. And yet it seems to me that in the subtext of your ideological confrontation is somehow a confrontation which is at this point in power in Poland and Hungary. I think it's still.../incomprehensible... of your performance today.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50672	Dear Representative Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50673	Thank you, fellow Cellic, I must disagree with you, I, I have, in a few points first this is not bilateral cooperation this is a multilateral cooperation, this is building as it popularly liked to say the uprights so number one. Number two, look Hungary, Poland today has the regimes they have, tomorrow they'll have some others at all it's not about that. So it has nothing to do with ideology, it has to do with what Croatia has received from it and can get. Currently completely independent of this story Croatia has LNG of some kind, one similar exists even worse in Poland, that is, as far as energy is concerned. As far as transport infrastructure is concerned, there are ideas of some kind of traffic connection, but I still think where Croatia is in this story. So, what we got out of it, where that money was also popular to say. So we haven't seen anything since that story, and so far we've put nearly 250 million kunas into that story. So, what did we get out of it?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50674	Thank you. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Villa Matula. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50675	I would like to thank the vice president, ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. 14 months have passed since the earthquake in Zagreb and in the replica I told Mr. Minister. 28% was reduced by the money that was planned for reconstruction at least according to what Mr. Vangelic said in the fund, because it is not easy to read everything about how it is but he claims it is all that. You didn't want to tell me a specific number and I can understand that you keep that money on the cup for who knows what's going to happen and that you have the information that you won't need to rebuild. 14 months after the earthquake, only 3 family homes in Markushevec are now up. On Friday, it was signed with the performer, and somewhere next week it should start to collapse until the end and already almost crashed houses and move into the reconstruction, 3 family houses in Markushevec, and we know how the Čucherjere, Medvedski breg, Markusjevac, Kasina we all know. Residential buildings, residential and business buildings all of what the fund is in charge of is neither near nor near and now we are trying to read which kind of policy is in that, which is the reason that in the account of some instance that a million kuna is given and that immediately in the repurpose of that thing jumps to 21 million, so now here's the good thing now that fellow Bakic said has not changed much. But it's totally amazing to me about the recovery from the earthquake that no money could be found to help. Here is Mr. Vangelic's claim that it's really complex and that only 11000 and 100 demands ended at the ministry. The Ministry's processing them, and imagine, it's turned 18. 18 to this day of 11 grand and 100, 18. 155 acts have come, but only 18 and 3 we have said in here the mayor of Zagreb argues that everything he can from legal experts will be launched to help people and that in what Mr Vangelic rightly says is very demanding technical and very demanding legal. So why don't we help them? So how is it possible, then, that this great amount of money from this vast re-use and everything that's found there, that it's possible that money can't be found among other things to help people write it after a year and two months? I'm completely saying unfathomable to me. Especially because let's say one of the good examples of re-application to a lot of positions with those 5% we see how surprisingly large figures can be found in some places. But what counterpart Bakic said in a speech on behalf of the club is one thing is very interesting, that among other things some small figures that are needed for talented students, students for their competitions, but be careful these are not great figures at all. However, it is concluded that these children are gifted anyway and that they will somehow manage. I have no other explanation that this kind of money suddenly rises, say, to this position of the three seas that have already been talked about without this money being made.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50676	Thank you. We have two replicas. He is the first respected representative of Pavic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50677	Your Honor, I think we all need to be aware that the recovery problems after the earthquake are very large, but that they will be even bigger. Why? We have houses that haven't been damaged, yet they haven't been restored. The roofs are collapsing, the atmospheres mean we've had rain, we've got snow, we've got wind houses fail. So the collapse and what hasn't been destroyed and the cost of rebuilding those houses will be far higher in a year, but what they should have been when the earthquake actually happened that happened after a few weeks and a few months. That's one thing. Secondly, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in fact many local self-governments are blocked in their work, that many projects are blocked because there is no money because the money from the budget did not come for these projects. Here's an example, 6. 12. In 2019, a government meeting in Krapina was held and 3.6 billion kuna was promised for projects in Zagorje. Some projects have been launched. Now they're stopped and standing because there's no money.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50678	Thank you. Honorable representative of Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50679	Thank you. Yes, colleague Pavic, I think you're absolutely right. The city of Zagreb, whatever people think of it, but especially this lower city has been a waste of truth for decades and many of these buildings are in this condition. It is fortunate that it was not an earthquake of that power, as unfortunately the one in Bania and Petrinja and Glina and Sisak and around it has left that damage. I really don't understand, here, Mr. Vangelic, among other things, we don't even have the need for money at this point, and then he agrees with Minister Maric, I guess that's why they made that decision, but I say, I hope by the end of the year we'll need the money, and then we'll be in charge of the banks. Interesting.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50680	The next replica is respected MPs Vucilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50681	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Matula, you are regularly present at HS meetings, which is truly commendable, so I don't know how you missed that the amendments to the Law on Local Self-Government simply left the City of Zagreb at your disposal. It's not small funds, it's 900 million kuna. So when you talk about some solidarity and it's called the whole of Croatia that it's not.../incomprehensible/... what should you do now, self-delivery of some kind? 900 million kuna has remained to the City of Zagreb until the adoption of this Law, it has previously gone into a balancing fund to help units of local self-government, which are less and less developed. So the City of Zagreb is not a Tompojevci municipality or Cheminac, you know? There are billions of budgets, So you don't really have to point everything at the state budget. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50682	Honorable representative of Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50683	My colleague Vucilović, I did not call for solidarity here, you put it in my mouth, all of Croatia, I know very well, and I agree that Slavonia is in a catastrophic state. That an earthquake this creepy had to happen to reveal that Bania, Banovina, was in terrible condition, it's, I mean, it's really a shame. I personally know that Gori Kotar is with all its wonders, but completely abandoned, completely, completely beyond all things and nothing important is happening there. So I don't understand, of course, that one part is coming back, but you hear what the situation is after 20 years of what happened in the City of Zagreb. I'm just talking about that why you should give this budget money. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50684	The next individual debate will be respected representatives of Rada Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50685	The Honorable Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Minister with an associate. What will be the repercussion and what does it tell us to cut the budget in the department to promote human rights? It's interesting that out of 23 million 795 thousand and something small, therefore the human rights position has been reduced to 10 million 445, so it has been reduced by 13 million. So, by 13, and very unusually, where only symbolically, expenditures for administration and management are reduced. For example. That, by 10 thousand kuna, sometimes the cost of material or the unremarked expenditure increases by 20 thousand kuna. What concerns, and why is he here worrying about reducing resources to promote human rights? In this particular position, therefore, not in other positions, was there, in the campaign, a story about budget cuts, so how is it possible and who will suck up the human rights budget if we already have such a terrible reduction? Namely, it concerns because we talked here and many have spoken and why this rebalance is tied up, so the human rights here we've spoken, were being violated precisely because we didn't know how to manage the Covid crisis, what happened to the people who lost their jobs. We talked here and about that we've already crossed the edge of poverty where and this violation of human rights, we've talked about violations, of labour rights, we've talked about violations of the right of asylum seekers, whether they were spoken here with a violation of rights, too, people, connected, here we have now seen in an anti-quake restoration. So how is it possible that exactly if nothing but because of the pandemic itself in which we have seen a particular violation of women's human rights, this is not what women's associations from Croatia tell you, this is what they tell you in the EU that violence against women has increased because of the pandemic itself and how it is possible that here, we have found 60% reduction of funds here. What, of course, concerns us are also witnessing the spread and increasing hate crimes. If you remember, we have discussed and in the budget how much ridiculous resources are provided for something that should be national strategies or which should be just promoting these human rights. Tell me what kind of campaign you're going to be doing for, to prevent a hate speech for 60 grand a year. By the way, I speak here of what is the task of what the government has taken over. So what you really need to point out, yes, for example. We can't, you have a part that talks, I don't know, about social inclusion of the most vulnerable groups and there's an amount of 2 000 361 kuna, it hasn't even increased by lip. And therefore, there is talk of ensuring the social inclusion of the most vulnerable groups. So am I now, did we all say that during the pandemic new vulnerable groups have also appeared? Do we even know exactly how many homeless people there are at this point so we haven't added any lip to that budget. So does Croatia really care about taking care of this document about promoting human rights and especially in this situation? So, on the budget, we really talked, for example. that it is absurd that for the National Anti-discrimination Plan 46,720 kuna was allocated, so for the National Anti-discrimination Plan, nothing to promote and fight could have been done or done. We can say that because of the pandemic there could not be campaigning, that perhaps because of the pandemic could not pay more attention to it, but say what you can otherwise do to promote the fight against discrimination for 46,000 kunas and then no wonder those who said that some on the one hand were saying that they were sucking out the budget, so don't be surprised at the association They're looking for funds from external foundations. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50686	Thank you. We have multiple replicas, the first respected representative of Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50687	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, dear colleagues. I've been really surprised by this debate of yours in this area where you turn around so as not to take care of human rights. So I don't know if any government is counting on human rights promotion more than the Government of Andrej Plenkovic. And you're aware of the situation we are in, and which have affected us, and even at home in your own budget, when you have different expenditures, you first solve those that are important for survival, which means, we've been saving jobs in these huge funds, we've been fighting the pandemic, that's what budget funds have gone into, and the question is, to the end, what will be the cost of preventing all the negative consequences and pandemics and earthquakes. And you're saying that you don't invest or that you don't appreciate the promotion of human rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50688	Thank you. Dear representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50689	Dear colleagues, I'm just talking about facts. If you show me in which other division 23 million kunas have been taken away from 13 million kunas, so if you show me that we know what the priorities are, but the priority of democracy is respect for human rights, care about how we're going to help in the pandemic to preserve jobs was and related to respect for human rights. So, you can't say this isn't a world-wide issue, this is a question that there are no funds in the budget, and it's interesting that at the greatest moment of the crisis we don't encourage therefore the promotion of human rights to perhaps improve the quality of our citizens' lives.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50690	Dear Representative Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50691	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Fellow Boris, very often we will hear this idea as if human rights are some kind of cost that is pointless and something that is extra, but human rights are also very specific things such as sexual and reproductive rights. I recently talked about the fall that occurred last week in women's health services and giving birth to how difficult it is, especially in those most vulnerable parts, and I have to admit that when I see these figures that I just talked about, it means 96 million kunas for some god lemonade to forgive, and to increase the availability of health services that are rights there is nothing, I think it says a lot about priorities. It's actually tragic for me because I'm not sure that there's some awareness in those who make those decisions about what they're doing or that's simply not high on their list of priorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50692	Dear representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50693	So I didn't want to say here that it wouldn't be that I'm just a woman's human rights lawyer, you should see what of all the great promises in the not-promotion that we've left but in the implementation of that and what's promised about implementation and the Istanbul Convention for example. I know what's going on and what's going on. As you yourself said when we say, of course, it will take us at least 20 years to talk about something that would be a birth budget so that we can see in health care what services are and what discrimination women are at this point in health. You spoke both women and men, for example. A man to attend is the situation a covida so men can't attend the birth. They must allow this as inadmissible at this time that women cannot get some of the services that are truly specific and related to them.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50694	Thank you. The next replica of the respected representative of Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50695	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Boric. Human rights should not only be spoken of but should be really and pawned and definitely wherever they are there is always room for improvement. I will mention only one European Interlive project which is now being implemented by the meeting community, which is now linked to a vulnerabilitating group of women addicts who have suffered gender-related violence. So it's also a vulnerabilitating joint today is about the day of the right of persons with mental disorders at the Hospital of Psychology Sparrow held a symposium in this context, so it needs to be kept talking. I understand your commitment to more resources has a lot of work to do, but it says here and this covid crisis simply gives us a thought on how to improve these human rights and women and men.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50696	Dear representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50697	Thank you fellow, this is an excellent example. That's exactly what we have to strive to make the most vulnerable groups like the group just women or treated with alcoholism, the addiction of any kind, so we need to see if we have these resources in the budget or if people have to get them projected. Imagine associations with disabilities or an autonomous women's house that every year, which does not have funds from the budget and does not even have permanent funds provided from the city every year from the beginning, writes projects. So do you think that if women don't get funds or funds they're very often late in the contests that you're going to leave women and children on the street? We need to arrange a system no matter what our colleagues think and what the associations do. So most of the associations, here we talked about volunteering, doing those things that should be done by courting states, so I don't know about disabled children, supporting parents who help these same kids, and we always argue about it, just seems like controversial human rights associations.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50698	Thank you. The next replica of the respected representative Mark Pavic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50699	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Boric, I wanted to say it's exactly the opposite. Never again human rights funds, but it is not read so much here for the reasons that all possible programmes are trying to switch to European funds. European funds go to the 7-year budget, projects are usually 3 or 4g. Here's an example. In this year you have a document which is the list of European projects in the budget. Let's say... STEM which is for civil society, the program is 150 million kuna per 3rd year, but this year 39 million kuna will be spent. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Also, the Ministry of Labour, Pension and Social Policy over two billion kunas of active EU projects. The good part goes to social services, only these funds have been allocated for many years and you can't get the whole picture from this budget as much as agreed for human rights, especially for employment and social inclusion, never again the funds for social inclusion in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50700	Thank you. Dear representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50701	But you've told us yourself a secret, so most of these funds aren't in the budget, it's not legitimate, so human rights, you're talking about European funds. So here you have the European Social Fund million 366 which is now zero because we probably failed to withdraw it, and in the budget it was envisaged. So, what I'm saying is we're all citizens who pay taxes and taxes, and everyone has the right to assume that some percentage of investment in something that would be in promoting human rights. We keep saying what we're going to pull or we're pulling out of the EU. Imagine that we can't pull anything from the EU, which from the Croatian budget would be given to promote human rights and whether it would be important to us, or whether we would, of course, have human rights or freedom of the media, all of which are very much liberalised because we don't seem to need it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50702	The next debate will be the respected representative of Ivan Celic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50703	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. After the topic of security and defence of human rights, I will return to what has been said the most today, which is the topic of health. So, the population in the EU, and so in the Republic of Croatia is getting older and older, the revenues in the coronary crisis have been reportedly lower, health costs are increasing not only because of the Covid-19 epidemic but also because modern diagnostic equipment and particularly expensive medicines constantly generate debt in health. Finland's reputation as a model of a successful education and health system, however, Prime Minister Juha Sipila had to resign because he failed to convince the public that health services on a regional basis are not sustainable. I think that's what's coming and the Republic of Croatia when we talk about the context of the necessary health reform because they can't be county hospitals under county rule, and then the debts have to be recovered by the state. The honor of exceptions, however, seems to me that most of the county hospitals are working in this way at the moment and perhaps the City of Zagreb is the only exception, which we saw when it was political, so-called. the political recovery of certain debts, when the recovery councils were appointed, and the debts were actually higher after the increase in public debt at the end of 2015. How to balance public finances, how to balance public and private relations so that waiting lists are as low as possible, so that health services are adequately paid, and the quality of healthcare remains at a satisfactory level, that is an eternal question. In the United States, which has also been mentioned today, a large number of citizens do not have health insurance because unfortunately they cannot afford it even though health services are considered high-quality, the health system still has problems there. Just mentioning rising costs and unsecured citizens is enough. Today's model in the Republic of Croatia is most similar to Bizmark's funding model. We also heard a lot of problems, and it seems to me that the funds that we can get from European funds, not only are related to the earthquake, they are specific and they need to serve to strengthen the public health system, and this concept of public health has been advocated by Andrija Stampar for a long time, and this concept is applied by Nordic countries in their model that is effective, but that also like everyone else has certain problems. In Croatia, there is an insufficient number of those who pay contributions to health insurance, with the ageing population getting smaller due to the reduction of the working population and need to find a balance in order to address existing difficulties and avoid creating new ones, or to make progress in general well-being. Germany is a lot of examples, 2019. in Germany, health insurance companies thus suffered losses of EUR 1 billion prior to the covid of the crisis. They advocate the lower influence of the state in health care and more space for private insurance. It is known that there is only one healthcare provider in Croatia when we talk about compulsory health insurance. I mentioned at the very beginning of today's debate according to data from the State Statistics Institute despite the difficulties we have been going through as other EU member states pay health care all in the January 2020 company, with a net increase of about 1,000 kuna in January 2021. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia was primarily identified during the pandemic crisis for the health security of citizens, taking care of the preservation of jobs both in the public and in the private sector. It is mentioned only enough that 215 thousand workers in Zagreb were provided by the Government with 2 billion and 900 million kuna. In this crisis, as Minister Maric said, we did not notice an increase in unemployment. Taxes have not been raised, and we see in fact that this government has the knowledge to establish a quality balance without neglecting fiscal responsibility and liability to taxpayers, these are facts and this is the fundamental reason why it is necessary to support the amendments and additions of the State Budget Act of the Republic of Croatia for 2021. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50704	We have a few replicas. The first is the respected representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50705	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. My dear colleague, you know we agree on some of the key things you mentioned. One thing you said about the county as founders, the state on the other hand sets limits that are unrealistic. HZZO determines the prices of medicinal products, rules on the state of law, categories of insurance, etc. So one naharadic system, that's where we agree. The other thing you mentioned was particularly expensive drugs. Yes, it invests more but there is no monitoring of the outcome of the treatment and it is also the ministry's duty. And the third thing I'd like to ask you to comment on is that here you focus. I watched that sign for orthopedic devices and aids. He didn't change the amount at all. So 940 million kuna as predicted, that's right. Your comment as a physician in the first order. Is it time for the state to now reduce the number of strips for diabetes patients who are not on injection therapy? So at this time when self-control is so important without the consulting of roof professional societies and without consulting patient associations is it okay for you, and we don't have a cost-benefit analysis of what's being done? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50706	Dear Representative Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50707	Thank you. Dear colleague Maric, I absolutely agree with you that treatment outcomes should be monitored and that is also one of the reasons why one of the important items is how we can rationalise costs or expenditures in the Croatian health system. As for the ribbons, as with all others, as with all medications, I will tell you, you know that I come from the Hospital of Psychology Sparrow, I would say that people with mental disorders are stigmatized and that other and lower classes are not only in Croatia but in the whole world, so the arrival of certain medicines that are more expensive to get on the list than to say cardiological medicines. As far as the ribbons are concerned, there's absolutely no telling what kind of procreator he is. First of all, it is necessary to seek the opinion of professional companies and then to draw certain conclusions from the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance on the basis of this expertise.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50708	Dear Representative Marko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50709	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Celic, here we have seen that despite the Covid crisis and despite the health losses that exist in the health care system, no one has left without care, no medicine, and the size of the costs I personally met when we were getting protective equipment over 615 million kuna of protective equipment that arrived from China was paid to European funds. We also know that the costs of specialized medicines are growing. Now we've got an increase in health care. So far, over a billion and a half kuna has been invested from European funds into health institutions. Only from the recovery plan is two and a half million kuna available. There will be additional EU funds. How do you comment and how do you see it, in particular, you are an expert in mental health and health? We know this crisis has affected that. I think it will take a lot of programs, and here European funds can be used well for... or for the disease. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50710	Thank you. Dear Representative Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50711	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Pavic, you were a minister, and you know well how much this government has invested since the very beginning, how systematically it has worked but also used personal communication that the moment we needed to get to medical protective equipment, and the tests, and the vaccines. So, all those birth problems that were happening they did not happen isolatedly in Croatia, but they were happening all over the world and we can be happy that we are a member of the European Union that helped us in some way to be egal with the other Member States that were once in front of us or behind us. As far as mental health is concerned, I will mention that both the Ministry of Health and the Croatian Health Insurance Institute have started funding telepsychiatric care that was needed during the earthquake and during the Covida-19 epidemic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50712	The next replica is respected MPs Makshimchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50713	Thank you very much, Vice President. An esteemed colleague after years of positive, moving to return credit ratings, increasing the number of employees, social benefits here we are also hit by this unfortunate Covid crisis. Yes, the state and the finance minister did not manage the budget well, it would certainly be harder, it would be harder to keep these jobs and, of course, the health system. We can see that this increase in expenditure in the budget applies in part to that. But back to the health system, what you spoke of most in your discussion, which was of course to be preserved in these difficult times, and it was preserved by health and health care workers and everyone got their own care. Of course, that's where the state got involved to maintain equal levels of health care, health services for all of our citizens. I primarily think about solving problems related to outstanding obligations in the health sector. Fortunately, however, there are still hospitals there that are doing well within 30 days. There, of course, I must commend the General Hospital of Doctor Joseph... in Slavonski Brod. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50714	Thank you very much. Representative Celic, I beg you, we are all out of time, so we will remain until very small hours. Let's go, because a little by little, 10 seconds here, 10 seconds there, so when there's 50 or 100 of us with replicas, that's pretty much it. Let's stick to time, please, dear representative of Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50715	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleague Maximchuk. The aim of this government in 2021 is to raise awareness of all system debts on appropriate deadlines, so 180 days for hospitals, 120 days for pharmacies. You mentioned General Hospital Dr. Josip Benčević in Slavonski Brod, which is successfully run by Docent Samardzic, I will mention my hospital as well as paying, which has no debts. Unfortunately, these hospitals are in minority, we must, so there are the biggest losers, of course, KBCs, which is partly understandable, but as counterpart Maric said, so the National Strategic Framework for Combating Cancer is planning and predicting treatment outcomes. The moment we introduce a treatment outcome variable, we will be able to measure costs much better and manage individual health institutions better.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50716	The next debate will be respected representatives of Vesna Vucilovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50717	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian National Assembly, dear colleagues and colleagues. As we have united these three points of today's agenda, then in an individual debate, I will look back a little on the report on the implementation of the 2020 budget. The year has been difficult, burdensome, numerous problems, unforeseen situations, but also significant about certain things that have come out of sight and from which we should learn some lessons. So what I want to point out is that's what many colleagues have said, and that's our excessive dependence on tourism. We dropped only 0.8% last year, and exports of services were 45.2%. So this excessive dependence on tourism leads us to a kind of rental economy that is definitely not good, makes us very vulnerable to all future crises and that is something that we must consider in our thinking, strategic plans, but also to the following documents regarding the state budget, which as one whole document also points to a lot of the way that our economy goes further. The crisis that hit us last year was very specific, I personally hope it is behind us, but it is not really up to us who are sitting here but on the Staff and epidemiological measures, and if we look at a little conjuncture, then usually all economic science says that construction as an activity, as an economic branch goes into crisis first and comes out of it first. This time it didn't happen. So construction and the construction sector recorded growth, along with agriculture, IT sector, industry and we see that this expansion continues in the construction sector, and there are many projects, such as water supply, draining, numerous of these agglomerations, new objects such as the Square of Justice, which are foreseen by the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, the recovery after the earthquake, transport infrastructure, all of which are large projects where we are already lacking labour force, and we will definitely have a problem and there is an objective danger for the construction sector to take over this role that tourism as an economic branch has played so far. So what is crucial and what we need to think about with strategic documents, and so also with all the budgets that are coming to us, is diversification, development based on the processing industry, on agriculture, on new technologies, that is definitely more demanding, but that is the only thing that can guarantee us stable economic growth and development that will record those rates that my colleague Lerotić talked about, which will be more than 3.5%, and we also saw in the projections that, I think, we said that in the debate when at the plenary session was our National Recovery and Resistance Plan, there is no longer a long-term and measures which are there, do not have a long-term impact on high growth rates, they are in the next few years, and then we fall below 3% again, and we will hardly reach more developed members of the EU. I must also point out that last year marked that rise in state spending of 3.4%. What we need, it's less state, more private capital, corporate freedoms, and we definitely need to reduce the impact of the state in the economy, not increase it. What is crucial is this public administration reform that has definitely been for a very long time, and I'm still going to point out, only this public debt that has exploded in an absolute amount, and I have to admit that I don't think that this will come to light so quickly in some reasonable contexts. Also, the 7.4% of GDP deficit that has led to these macroeconomic imbalances that the EU Commission has also reported are things that really need to be taken seriously, and that is what we must look at in all documents and bring it into some normal frameworks.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50718	Thank you. We have one replica of Honorable counsel Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50719	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Vucilović, you said an interesting sentence, that the construction sector could replace tourism and that it would be able to talk about the lack of labour and therefore you think that diversification of activities and activities is needed and is more directed towards agriculture and the processing industry. My question is how do you actually see this process of directing to some new activities that would have entered the first plan? Although we have knowledge, I would say that we have knowledge and capacity for agricultural production, but also for the processing industry. Certainly these two sectors could help the survival of rural areas, ensure sufficient quantities of quality food for our residents and make decent profits for all those who are engaged in agriculture and who want to create jobs and processing.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50720	Thank you. Dear representative Vucimilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50721	Thank you very much. As you well know, we are self-sufficient only in basic war cultures, and I think that the Mandarins are next thanks to Metkovic and the surroundings where they grow. What we're missing are definitely these processing facilities so we can export more value added products. And in the past, we have had in almost all the small urban environments and processing facilities that are now missing and we don't have that vertical that we're missing and we have to build. In the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, there are a lot of these elements that are good and that part about agriculture is well complex. Of course, implementation should be monitored because it can go all the way in some other directions, but perhaps we should also move towards reforming incentives that would then be related to minimum yields, not only to land as such.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50722	Thank you very much. Since it's been three practically now, we'll take a break and see you again at 3:00. MEETING AT 14:42 A.M. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50724	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President Maric, State Secretary, it is our pleasure today and on the Committee on Science to comment on how challenging budget planning is last year and how commendable it is that the ministry or government has succeeded in closing this rebalancing and that ultimately there has been neither shortage of medicines nor mass unemployment as some have said we will have 400,000 unemployed. The circumstances in which this rebalancing is happening and this budget is certainly extraordinary, sudden, but when we compare to the 2008 crisis where we have been recovering for 10 years, and now that we see that we have the second largest GDP growth in the first quarter, statistics 5.8% came out yesterday, that just means that EU membership and smart governance, or all the credibility that we have received for 3 years in a row, that responsible public finances led to the confidence of credit institutions, that we have kept the credit rating, that we have entered the ERM II mechanism, that we received 2 billion euros before we entered last year, or that we have deposited 15 billion kuna and received 2 billion euro cash. These are all the successes of this government and of your ministers, and exactly all the estimates are saying that by the end of next year we will be out of this unprecedented crisis. When I look at this rebalancing income rises over 3 billion kuna, which makes me glad that 1.4 billion are helping, or the good part is European funds. I think this is the first budget as far as I monitor that we underestimated the European funds or that their absorption goes better than we estimate in the budget. And right in my debate, I'm going to stay on two components, one is employment and the other is EU funds. In employment, Minister Maric also said 11 billion kuna and 700,000 jobs were saved. Just to put into context that figure in the previous government, the SDP government was invested in the mandate of Milanovic's government 3.5 billion kuna in employment. We're only in Covid's 11 billion kuna. So, which means EU membership, which means access to European funds and cheap capital. Now we have 132,000 unemployed, and what is even more happy is that more than 20,000 jobs are open and that we have currently more employees than in 2019, and that is precisely why an additional 2 billion kuna in rebalance for employment measures, 300 million kunas for education vouchers means a lot to employment programmes. The second component seen in this rebalancing is EU funds. As I said for the first time a billion and 200 million euros more and faster absorption of EU funds than planned for this year. We see that by the figures over 117% agreed, 54% already paid and 39 billion kuna more received from Brussels than we paid the membership fee. I am sorry to see in the assembly I am sorry that there is no colleague Rada Boric here misunderstanding how European funds are transferred to the budget. The European funds are planned at the seventh annual level, the programmes are planned for 3 years and then let's say the Zaželi programme, which employs 6,000 women and provides care for 30,000 old households in this rebalancing is 290 million kuna, but the total program Wish is worth a billion and a half. Because it is transferred to several years and never more funding for social inclusion, absolutely never again for youth employment programmes with disabilities, older, active ageing. So this rebalance shows that it's developmental, shows that the government knows what it's doing and of course it's going to get our support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50725	We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50726	Thank you very much. My colleague Pavić is here from your debate just a part of how important it is that we are in EU membership and what it contributes to our budgets, but in my view this applies equally not only to the state but also to the local environments. And now we're looking at what we have, so here's the day of experience of new people who have entered certain local self-government and government that is here in the second term in a similar relationship. What are we doing this year with a number of criticisms going to the government? We're looking at, say, the capital of the Republic of Croatia, announcements that a budget of about 3.6 billion will be rebalanced, which is almost 25% of the budget, the ambition of the people who have entered and want to do what the government is doing. Can we conclude that we are at the same level means that here we are talking about increasing income and we want to be ambitious, we want to do that, which is then being ordered on the other hand on some local self-government with such a relationship to let's say the budget you inherited... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50727	Thank you. Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50728	Thank you very much, so I mean observation very much in place. In addition, 250m kuna has been added to the Fund for Co-financing of European Projects, which is now 450m kuna. We will have a private debate and Minister Maric will invite you to a thematic session that will discuss the additional types of co-financing of EU projects with regard to these 24.5 billion kunas as well. So that the ambition of some who are taking over local environments, of course, will be judged by voters, but what we see is that both tax reform and eu funds have grown significantly to local self-government units, that projects are being greatly increased in progress, and that, in fact, there are mechanisms for co-financing of pre-financing projects to enable these 24.5 billion euros that come to us to be fully absorbed.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50729	Replica of Honored Representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50730	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague Pavić. It's a good thing you mentioned our membership because when es only looks at the Solidarity Fund as much as 5 billion kunas are foreseen and now over 2 billion of them are allocated to individual ministries of which the most actually goes to the Ministry of Science, then it is a very important help and a significant role in making these funds really big, big shifts and a lot of help at the end of their own economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50731	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50732	Thank you very much. My colleague Perić and you are absolutely right, this morning we had a committee where Minister Obuljen Koržinek and Secretary of State from the Ministry of Science, as I recall the Ministry of Science in this rebalancing is growing by a billion and a half budget, and the Ministry of Culture by 400 million. What is now, especially for a small ministry or a small budget, is a 30% growth for the Ministry of Culture, which is precisely for the sake of European funds and the Solidarity Fund where we are rebuilding, so not only have a crisis but we have also had two devastating earthquakes to manage to provide funds for their recovery and to keep all investments and all projects. Many other countries that are outside club members must essentially kill projects in order to have resources for doctors, to have resources for the most basic needs. We keep all the programs and provide additional programs like which is at the Ministry of Culture for, say, creative industries. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50733	Thank you. Dear Representative Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50734	Dear colleague Pavić. The elections are next in three years first, no need for any kind of laurel, we lose to seriousness. I mean, you mention the biggest GDP growth, this morning I listened to Minister Maric, who warned that he was modestly and rationally explaining that the reason we had the biggest GDP drop is because it wasn't some growth. You're mentioning that we're not going to have a deficit. It's not true, we're going to have a deficit, not now... the reasons. The 2008 crisis is something completely different from the crisis caused by covid, cause, reason, way out, etc. And finally, don't mention Milanovic and his government anymore, so when it was, who remembers that, who remembers that?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50735	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50736	Well, my colleague Vidovic, I remember. I remember when Minister Mrsic's incompetence was blocked by the European Social Fund, but I just wanted to put it in context. I did not say that something was wrong with the previous government, I was just putting in the context that EU membership is wearing and that just because of EU membership that we were not a member in 2008, and now we are, because we are now in... two procedures and in accession to the Eurozone, that our access to capital is much easier, that we have access to much larger European funds. In 2008, we had IPA pre-accession funds that were around 150m euros, now we have a billion and a half euros. In other words, all the benefits of membership have led to our having today. Therefore, I had no idea how much politics was my idea of explaining the importance of EU membership and accession in 2008 and now objectively show what this membership was wearing.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50737	Thank you very much. The next debate will be the respected representative Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50738	The old Greek philosopher Heraklit said and the main philosopher was his was actually "Panta Rei", all flowing, all changing that was the essence of his philosophy. I would say that there is still something that does not change and what is the continuity of this government and the last government actually with the same prime minister, and that is how it reacts when it comes to budget rebalances that reflect, I would say to a large extent and philosophy the value of the government's priorities. Last year, at some point in the same time at the beginning of the 6th month when all other governments in Europe were bringing programmes, 508 measures were taken in the European governments of social assistance to different vulnerable categories of people due to covids, we rebalanced around 350, I think 400 million kuna from the Fund for Employment of Persons with Disabilities. I understand the Minister of Finance, he took where the money was. It's not the problem of the finance minister, the problem is why was there money, why was there money that was not spent, and it was actually taken to the most vulnerable group? What's going on with this rebalance? At the position of the family children minus 324 million kuna, at the position of social care 335 million kuna less, at the position of the Fund for the Reconstruction of Zagreb, Zagreb County, etc. Almost 250 million kunas less. It's a philosophy, it's already an attitude. Take those who are most vulnerable. The problem is he doesn't say Minister of Finance again. Why and how is it possible that in a country that has experienced two catastrophic earthquakes, where the damages are estimated at $128 billion, we can't, we can't spend it in the fund, this recovery fund, we have to take 250 million because they wouldn't spend it anyway? It speaks dramatically of the importance of the government getting together, putting their heads on a pile and saying what's wrong with it. If we planned to rebuild and reserve 900 million kuna for reconstruction, why isn't that happening? Well, it's no longer a matter of mistletoe, nor a policy of any kind. It is an essential issue of the country's fundamental responsibility for the most vulnerable groups of its people. People I live in Sisak, I live in Sisak, I invite all government members, come and spend 5 months, not 5 months, 5 days in a container, spend 5 days in a container, so you'll see what that means, which means. We can't act like that disaster didn't happen, it doesn't work, we can't be so hypocritical and talk about taking care of children, of birth, of demographic restoration, etc., and then what was booked and secured as money as if it hadn't been taken and spent on something else, it doesn't matter what in this case for the health system that people should finally talk about. Croatia has one of the highest retirement rates for health insurance, higher than the pension insurance allocation. In most countries, the ratio of 2:2.5 is a pension and health system. That's a huge amount of money we spend on the health system. The problem is on the cost side, no one touches it for 30 years, it's not just a story for this government. Why? 3.g. You have peace, no choice, no courtship, let's get serious and make order in a system that takes so much money with a very uncertain future. Listening to the minister this morning who said the problem was old debts, no trouble at all. The problem is we know new debts will be generated. The problem is that we know that the system doesn't work and that every year we're going to have to rebalance, take the children and the poorest and the poorest and the poorest and most deprived to resuscitate that system.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50739	The next debate will be the respected representative of Josip Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50740	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, dear ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here's something I'd like to say about these changes and the additions of the state budget along with the financial plans of extra budget users for 2021. I believe that regardless of the objections that come from the opposition that as a government, as a ministry that is in charge of finance, the most important document that depicts certain government policies, we do what we need to do to maintain the stability of the system, but also all sectors of that system in this year and of course projected some possible endings this year itself, which is once again challenging no more than last 2020. And now that we're going to compare here, when we look at what happens in 2021 compared to 2020, it's visible from all these indicators of macroeconomic, but also budgetary that we're much better than last year in many segments, and that clearly shows the very proposal for a rebalancing of this budget. And indeed perhaps there is no place for such debates as is attempted in certain detail in some way to look at certain possible activities in the budget so that it would be said that what we are doing is not good or that we have done something bad, just to stay on it or to create a reason why this is not supported because there is always a reason why not to be in a position to support something that we all think is good and to solve certain problems and there is always the relationship of opposition and authorities different and, of course, it has not stopped after these local elections, although today I have to say that this debate is much better than all those who have preceded the local elections and I think that we will enter into a slightly different time where a little bit now will come to terms and certain knowledge. That's why I asked in my replica what happens to us in the largest city in the Republic of Croatia when the state goes with this kind of budget rebalancing, and from that city they go quite different announcements we're going to reduce all of this by almost 25% in terms of certain items of the budget and what are the ambitions to end in the first place in 2021. in the largest city, which then depends on both this budget and certain activities and this budget. So there's going to be a lot of work, and it's going to be interesting to see what's going on here. So the City of Zagreb is not some small municipality of 1,000 people that affects the budget minimally. That's what we see. And now, if you're going to be against this, it's clear that you have to have arguments. We all notice that in the health system we have a problem and a number of criticisms are going towards the government, you have not solved certain activities i.e. You have not solved in this system through reforms of his problems in the sense that he creates debts. We are trying to solve this budget rebalancing through additional revenues certain problems that have been observed and by the end of the year are likely to solve one part, but this is certainly the beginning and foundation of possible and future health reforms that must reduce expenditure in this system. And it's not insignificant when you use 2.8 billion kuna for that, which to HZZO, which to resuscitate institutions in health care. It is certainly not insignificant that this part that goes after one government policy again, which is to enable normal functioning of legal persons to be private, means that it is possible to through a co-financing measure i.e. pay in this sector simply enables continued activity and employment. Here we talk about billions of kunas already paid and which will be paid by the end of the year. So if we're in order to save, say, every job that's a policy that says we're not going to support this rebalancing that exactly offers something like that in terms of keeping jobs? We either want bigger salaries in the education system or so on. It is this rebalancing that raises it by another nearly 800 million kuna and we say we are against it by voting on this rebalancing because it is simply not good at it. What matters to me as far as the island is concerned is that we have retained means in the transport subsidisation of transport at the same level. It means we can travel freely and there won't be any problems. What is important is to apply this Law on the Islands, i.e. The amendments to certain other laws of the Ministry of the Sea will, therefore, pass one part of public road island transport to another division. to the Ministry of the Sea and those funds were transferred there. What is more important is that we also want to help public rail transport almost 475 million kunas in order to compensate for the problems that have arisen just above this Covid crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50741	Thank you. The next debate will be respected representatives of Grozdana Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50742	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, the treasurer. Here I would once again like to highlight all the facts and facts that have been following us since the beginning of 2020. In fact, it is often neglected that this time of Coronavirus is the time when certain measures of relief have occurred, thus increasing the various reliefs, and this has also affected the reduction of the revenues of the state budget. At the same time, measures were taken to help citizens, how to help employment, how to help entrepreneurs. Therefore, when we look at that government just used this fiscal space from previous years to send in a strong fiscal support precisely to maintain economic activity and employment, then we must return to the fact that more than 32 billion so far has cost the whole process. Therefore, over 13 billion kuna is the decline in income that occurred during this pandemic period, and over 19 billion are direct expenditures that are conditioned by the pandemic. Let us not forget that it reacted immediately with the amendment of the tax rules to entrepreneurs where those who have had a decline in incomes are greater than 20% free of charge and a flat-rate payment of direct taxes and contributions. In April, we had a package of measures where entrepreneurs who had income of less than 7 and a half million kuna and with a fall of revenue greater than 50% were completely exempt from direct taxes and contributions that were due to reach during April, May and June 2020. Also, all those companies that had revenue of more than 7 and a half million kuna, and the drop in incomes of more than 50%, also had exemptions from those contributions depending on the drop in income. So when it is seen that direct taxes and contributions have been written off over $3.1 billion for about 130,000 taxpayers, then we see that the government did not stand wither. In addition, the most vulnerable sectors have been co-financed by the cost of salary of 3 thousand 250 kuna per employee and subsequently increased to 4 thousand kuna. With the cost of retirement and health care going to the burden of the state budget. In addition to what I mentioned in 2021, it was reduced so parallel to reducing income or making it easier for taxpayers to operate where profit tax is reduced for all those who have turnover less than 7 and a half million kuna to 10% and with reduced income tax rates. It is therefore very important to note that despite all the problems, despite all expectations and difficulties, the Government has found ways to comply with exactly those proposed laws that came into force with January 2020 and the 21st and found ways to help the economy. We have to mention the fact that the pension system is also very demanding, that we have over 42 billion kuna, and that income is about 22 of the contributions. The fact that the public debt was also reduced by about 12% points during 2015 to 19 and that it was rapidly ending in 2020. However, there are projections that it will decrease by about 2%, over 2% points. So when we look at all of this, then we see that this, this way of funding and jumping in and preventing everything that's happened was really timely and that the measures have been affected no matter what anyone thinks.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50743	We have two replicas. The first is the respected representative Baricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50744	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear counterpart Peric, you have made a very good point in your debate that the role of the states here was irreplaceable, that it was timely and timely and should indeed be pointed out here once again in numbers, you have pointed out very well, I would only say that the wages were secured for 680,000 workers and for 120,000 employers, 10.5 billion kuna and certainly one question. Do you have any idea that countries in the environment have also made their own, for their workers, given that we are all back 15 months in the same crisis?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50745	Dear representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50746	Thank you very much. Yes, here each country has projected it according to its own capabilities, there were countries that reacted differently, but it was really important to intervene at the right time with that because we relyed on our own sources, first of all on our own sources, not actually waiting for the decision of the European Commission or Europe in any way to do any steps. So at the moment that we saw that we needed to react very quickly and efficiently then it was primarily going in such a way as to find first internal sources, and everything that comes out of it will be welcomed.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50747	The Republic has a respected representative named Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50748	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Representative Peric, for the past 15 months, the government has helped to preserve jobs with its intervention measures, with more than 10.5 billion kuna, if we add those tax reliefs, it goes above 12 billion kuna. All of this made it possible, of course, that in a difficult situation like this, one is trying to keep its head above the water, but also not to increase the number of unemployed. There have been some speculations in the public lately that this aid from the state in June will not be paid, although I think Minister Maric made it clear today, so I would also like to hear your knowledge about whether it will continue in June with the payment of assistance to employers for the preservation of jobs.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50749	Dear representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50750	Thank you very much for asking, that these measures continue and the cause between the other and this rebalancing is that they, as such, are being installed in the whole system so that they can intervene because the current, current level of redistribution has actually taken advantage of all those funding opportunities that have been made possible under the Budget Law by the Ministry of Finance and other ministries. Therefore, it will continue depending on what provisions and guidelines and decisions are likely to be, and depending on the extent and extent to which, or extent, illegal work may be allowed, in certain segments and thus, funding will continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50751	Thank you. The next debate will be her respected representative, Davor Ivo Stier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50752	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Vice-President of the Government with associates, as the Budget Law has already been said, and so the rebalancing is one of the most important decisions we make in the Croatian Parliament, taking into account both internal and external circumstances, and I would like to offer a few thoughts about these external circumstances. In the first place, I think of course we are aware that this rebalancing is also being brought into the context of a global crisis caused by the pandemic and aware of the response the EU has given and given and I think that we should also remind ourselves that this EU response this time is very different from that of the previous 2008 crisis, which someone has mentioned before. Back then, in 2008, there was an even dominant German position that was for strict fiscal controls, much more restrictive, if you want a more conservative approach to monetary policy. However, this approach may have extended the Eurozone crisis too long, the gap between the north and south has increased, anti-systemic parties or movements across the continent have even worsened the transatlantic relations to the extent that American allies have also suggested a change of approach during Obama, and then by the arrival of Maria Draga at the head of the European Central Bank, these changes have started to take place in the direction of a more expansion monetary policy. Today Christine Lagarde continues to take those steps, and Draghi took responsibility for the Italian government and what we can see is enhanced cooperation between Paris and Rome as some sort of counterpunk of a more restrictive or conservative approach to Beriln. So, in response to this pandemic crisis, the EU is still going through a suspension of the rules on the budget deficit, on public debt, and despite even resisting the German central bank, it has decided for the first time to empower the Commission to go to the capital markets for future generation funding on behalf of the EU-wide, which still means that in translation, we must recognise one increased German financing of the recovery and development of other EU member states. So this is such a context in Europe and we are discussing such circumstances today in this rebalancing which I think takes into account two foreign policy situations, the first that this suspension of strict deficit and debt rules will be extended to 2022. which reflects the current European balance of power among the great members, especially on the Berlin-Paris and Rome triangle, but with discreet yet important support from the Biden administration. The second element is that there are limits to how long and how long it can go with relaxed fiscal rules and expansional monetary policy. And in this respect, I think it is necessary to welcome and support the government's efforts to, despite the very demanding health and economic situation, which, of course, requires an increase in expenditure to remain under the control of the general government's budget deficit and public debt. The more we discuss this rebalancing, the more we have to make sure that even in that balance of power that I talked about before, that it is not long-term fixed, but rather dynamic. So, will you, for example. This temporary suspension tomorrow turns into some new permanent rules by reforming the Stability and Growth Pact, or some compromise will happen. This depends to a significant extent on the outcome of the elections in Germany in September, but then also on the presidential elections in France in the spring of 2022. We must also see whether the Italian government will carry out its mandate by the end of 2023 or whether there will be elections sooner. But in these circumstances, what the minister has announced today, and that is to do all the necessary reforms, but also to stay in the fiscal security zone, it seems to me that the only possible policy is responsible and therefore I think that we should support this budget rebalancing proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50753	We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50754	Good afternoon. I have to say that almost pleasantly sounds what we've heard from you, but I'm really interested in the answer to the question why and how do you inherit this type of optimism that the Stability Pact would in some way be suspended even after the crown crisis? So what makes you think that the rules of this fiscal restrictive rule that we expect after returning to what does it normally normally normally normally appear in another form? In fact, what we lack is really an opportunity to respond to the crisis by restructuring and oscillating the structure of the economy that relies on tourism and service activities to a great extent and to respond with some developmental economic policy that we do not see here regardless of the patching of holes. We see only the preservation of the status quo until some kind of revolution really...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50755	Your Honor, Mr. Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50756	Yes, because today this relationship is geostrategic if you want among some key countries in the Eurozone is especially after Draghi's arrival at the head of the Italian government where Italy started to play much more actively in this geostrategic scene and thus supporting the views of Paris and thus creating a little counterbalance to this approach that required a return to some restrictive measures. This is being debated today as always in European politics, probably a compromise or some agreement will be sought. There's certainly not enough time and elements to give some final judgment about it, but the debate obviously goes that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50757	Replica also has a respected representative, Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50758	Thank you, Chairman. I am now not going to enter my personal conflict with you I sometimes go beyond the subject of the agenda in my presentations and in my speeches, but I am going to address Mr. Ivo Stier. So, well, if you had just shown us this geostrategic framework within the Eurozone, but I have listened carefully to your presentation, and I would like you to explain a little more in detail how this Biden's administration has to do with the united points of today's agenda in which we are discussing budget rebalancing, the final draft of the Budget Law and all other topics discussed by the other MPs? And then I ask you to somehow comment on it with double criteria in the session management that Mr. Rainer is currently chairing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50759	Your Honor, Mr. Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50760	Yeah, well, in the introduction, I also said that when such an important law is passed where both internal and external circumstances are considered, we must also refer to these latters. I've tried to give a presentation, offer a few thoughts, I hope that's what I've contributed to the debate. Of course, she is much richer and has to deal with other topics. And when we talk about the situation in Europe, given the European economy's connection with transatlantic partners, and we know that this dialogue has had a profound impact on the resolutions that have helped to come out of the crisis of the past, and of course that cooperation is necessary and good and positive that we can also face the challenges of the pandemic dialogue better in the spirit of the transatlantic dialogue.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50761	Thank you. The next debate will be respected MPs and vice presidents of this High House Sabina Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50762	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President of HS, the Honorable Ministers, the Honorable colleagues and colleagues. I will only stick to the education system in my individual debate today. My colleague Pavić, before me, said here in a pay phone that a great example is actually the Ministry of Science and Education because this budget rebalancing guarantees even 1.5 billion kuna more. No one happier than me if it were really like that. However, he may have slept through one part of the board where it is very clear that out of these 1.5 billion actually 701 million kuna is in this part, i.e. that 563 million kuna is returning so-called. loans borrowed from the Ministry of Health when we had to deal with health problems and debts to suppliers, which would literally mean that if we exempt 893 million kunas intended for restoration or recovery of the damage caused by the earthquake reserved in the Solidarity Fund and the recovery and resistance mechanism, in fact that it is some kind of increase in this division regarding the Ministry of Science and Education 137 million kuna. What you can also see is a more significant increase when we talk about the Ministry of Science and Education is somewhere around 798 million kuna 440 in primary, 260 in secondary and slightly higher education that actually refers to increasing the basics of primary and secondary school employees. Speaking of the basics, it is just the failure to fulfil the commitments of the state that should have been settled since the end of 2015 that I will say here immediately after the parliamentary elections have been held so that we do not return to history, meaning when the conditions have been met that one supplement of the agreement signed in 2009 was consumed, where actually the educators were placed in a position to give up better lives, better salaries, and then it is said that if the conditions for GDP to grow three times in a row above 2% that these conditions will be met. These conditions were met at the end of November 2015. However, from the end of 2015 to December 2017, basics that were not in line with this contract were calculated to the employees of the educational system. So the government just ignored it, and then it happened that people in primary and secondary schools were pressing charges. You've been convicted. Here's the Supreme Court said in January this year that they are absolutely right and we are coming to the point that by being irresponsible and not fulfilling our obligations in this budget rebalancing because of someone's inaction or ignoring our commitments we will have to pay 11.5 and 21.5 million kuna, respectively, in this year's powerful judgment in primary and secondary education and 3 million in higher education. Which is an increase in primary and secondary education almost double. So we had a planned 11.5 million kuna. Now we have to provide another 10 million kuna just to ensure that these people are compensated for the final judgments and there's a couple of exellances that could have been avoided. Let's move on. It is good that this budget increases, for example, the means to prevent violence and addiction. They're really significantly increased. Equally, an increase of 6 million kunas for raising and training children with developmental difficulties and scholarships for students and students of a weaker socio-economic standard. However, what is not good is when we look at capital projects and use funds. So the OP-efficient human potential and the OP competitiveness and cohesion is that the funds are not being used and funds are being taken, for example, for students with difficulties in developing the 11 million kuna, co-finance the costs of involving children in a socioeconomic disadvantage in pre-school institutions. When we talk about capital investments big project Children's Centre for Translation Medicine The Children's Hospital of Srebrenica something is lagging behind and that's something that doesn't instill trust and that's something I can't support this budget in part of education.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50763	Thank you. The next debate will be respected representatives of Katarina Peovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50764	Good afternoon, everyone. So in the amendments and additions to the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2021, we repeat this planned deficit of the State budget of 17.1 billion kuna, which is more than 6.4 billion kuna compared to the amount of missing planned in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for the year 2021 and projections for the year 22, 23. So, a deficit is expected, the state budget is expected to record a deficit since we said it and it should repeat 4.3% of GDP. What I put in the replica itself is a question. Why does the government show us only the positive side of this story? The positive side is also mentioned here several times that the EU sees the Commission less restrictively than before the crowning of such a type of policy. Rather, the EU would react negatively because it is a violation of the EU Semester Stability Pact rules, etc. The European Commission has therefore abolished these rigid rules for the borrowing of the state, i.e. an increase in public debt. But what the government does not tell us is that these restrictive measures will return. And there's no I mean optimism, the reason for the optimism that's pointed out here that we don't believe otherwise. Therefore, they will again insist on austerity measures, budget balances or even budget surpluses such as in Greece to reduce public debt. We can expect a scenario, therefore, like in Greece that did not reduce public debt with budgetary balances or budget surpluses, but reduced aggregate demand and threw Greece into the spiral of debt and deflation. In this light you can expect what we always get from our government, which is what it is to achieve competitiveness through so-called. internal devaluation means lowering labour prices, abolishing or closing jobs, etc. Already Minister Maric announced what I asked as a question, rationalization in health care, and then he said I don't mean wages, I'm glad to hear it, but there are other forms of rationalisation in health, which is therefore increasing participation, further privatisation of health care, increasingly unreachable health services, etc. The deficit in the budget is certainly a sign of the alarm and the necessity to question the current alleged development strategies which rest, so first of all, I will cut it short, but I have repeatedly talked about it, about neoliberal strategies based on development based on a private initiative through tax reduction and free competition, and as some here have already warned on the basis of skeletal structures based on tourism and service activities that do not have the ability to produce more value added. So, such a bet to say so to the richest who will allegedly invest if they are released from the charge does not happen and again after 5 tax reforms we can see it. Asphyxiation of industry is therefore ongoing, and we also see further privatisation in the National Recovery and Resistance Plan. Now, to cover up this fact that we're going to get into a debt-refunding situation, and that we have such an oscillating structure of a service-based business, the budget rebalance covers it with some fairy tales and myths where there are really some horror fairy tales, so I'm going to name just a few. Churches like some have already said, nothing or really is a little reduced, support for religious communities, international agreements with the Holy Table nothing has been reduced, some spiritual concern for persecuted Christians has been reduced. The military, NATO's integrated anti-aircraft defence system has been minimally reduced, equipment by far the artillery system has not been reduced, equipment by a combat vehicle of infantry on the caterpillars slightly. Staff costs are somewhat reduced, according to NATO's instructions that we use too much on workers or on people in the system, and too little on equipment. Activities within NATO and the EU have even been increased from 58 million to 59 million, nothing has been reduced for the UN mission of operation, NATO mission of operation, the EU mission of operation, but the reduction has been sustained by helpers in continuing as some have mentioned, helpers in continuing for children with developmental difficulties, which, to only mention, is a reduction of 13% in the budget to further reduce these funds, civil society, promoting human rights, combating discrimination, etc. But to cut the story short because time is running, what I really want to know is how it's possible that the rebalance has reduced the funding for subsidies and state guarantees for housing loans, and the Workers' Front when it asked for it in the budget it's said that it violates the Budget Law, obviously some things can still be done.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50765	Thank you very much. The next debate will be respected representatives of Dalia Oreskovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50766	Dear MPs and MPs, listening to today's presentations, could be summed up to believe that the government is doing fantastic work and we are living in a fairy tale as to the budget of its incomes, expenditures and executions, listening to the opposition's opposition suggests a truly worrying state of deficit, of nebulosis in certain items of the budget, as well as a completely disturbed system of priorities. So, in essence, we can only conclude that there is nothing we can agree on. And since my motive for dealing with politics is a great desire for Croatia to change radically and I have a very clear and detailed and plan and a view of what Croatia's redesign should look like. I'll look back on that mini dialogue in the replica between me and the resolute minister because I think the spoken word binds, both me and him. And it's actually about the famous transparency of the budget that we haven't talked about enough today. So that's something I've been up for since 2019. and not at the level of mere stories or ideas, but through concrete documents. I've started with the Anti-Corruption Strategy, and I think it must be one of the basic chapters. I have repeatedly explained in HS for this speaker what this transparency should be, and that is not the kind of transparency that certain JLS praises, even though they have, for example, Bjelovar, Rijeka and some others, is more and better than the state itself. So, if the minister was sincere in his intention to introduce the full fiscal transparency of the state budget and if he keeps his word credible as the rest and every other HDZ, then he will try to make this transparency really so that our citizens, our users, can be convinced that the money that our citizens and our entrepreneurs earn and pay in the state budget is spent on their own eyes. And that would actually mean the introduction of an information app, and it's fortunate that our strategic documents are full of famous digitization that we've been hearing about since the time of Tomislav Karamark. Therefore, transparency is not a search engine that registers the name of the company or the OIB, so some information is being searched that the user already knows exists in advance. Full fiscal transparency, which I believe is an urgent need to introduce at the state level, so for all ministries, for all public institutions, for all hospitals for absolutely all state bodies including the Croatian Bank on Reconstruction and Development and all others who have huge financial resources, it is that we have one browser at all times through which we can walk absolutely in all directions where, as if you are looking at your own bank excerpt, they see payments on the one hand, and they pay off from the other. Complementary with such a system should therefore be developed applications that communicate between each other and the databases and public registers that communicate with each other and, for example, with a particular financial transaction, may be linked to a contract available for example in PDF format, which accurately states what kind of legal work it is, on the basis of which the legal act, the powers, the procedure, whether it was competition, how much it cost the public budget in the end. What's actually good news, the good news is that with such applications, certain units of local self-government started, which means there's no obstacle right now, the question is whether there's political will. And the other good news is that all of this together isn't hard to implement, it's a few months enough, and what I'm up for, and I've even cited it in a corruption-restricting strategy that can't possibly come to the agenda, and it's in the debate that the state is building a single programme, because you'll all agree with me when we do one program and we pay it once. Then we won't get into a situation where different state bodies order and pay each and every one of their own, here's our savings. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50767	Thank you very much. The next debate will be the respected representative of Goran Ivanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50768	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers, State Secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, here I will start off the topic that I will not be punished by this vice president, I am sorry that Mrs. Oreshkovic has only met bad HDZ in her life, and here she sits so many good and honest people, and perhaps you better get close to us and you will see that HDZ is no master horn but it is a party that has worked in the interests of the Croatian people and the Croatian state and for 30 years now. And as for these changes in the budget, I'm going to be a little bit attached to Mr. Boric who has well touched some, some of the topics that I think are very, very, very important. If we follow back a little what's been going on with the finances for the past five years, then we'll see that we've significantly strengthened what we've been talking about all along, which is local and regional self-government. And in these changes local and regional self-government are placed in a good place because I simply think that there is the key to the success of Croatia's development in all segments. If we don't strengthen local self-government, of course, fiscally and not put these capacities into operation, and let's be honest without the state's help they can't solve capital infrastructure projects, then we won't do absolutely anything. There were talk of agglomerations here, agglomerations are a good thing, it's something that triggered the construction sector in the areas of agglomeration, and on the other hand we're dealing with the problem of the first-placed permanent pipelines, it's been said that it's a system of draining or bringing drinking water and we're solving drinking water and draining in areas that couldn't even imagine it until 5 or 6 years ago, and the increase in that part is very, very important that they can testify through agglomerations that occur in the space of Osijek-Baranja County, and there are somewhere, I think there are 5 total, worth almost 2 billion kuna kuna. Now imagine 2 billion kunas in just one small space. The third important thing to read from these changes is agriculture. It's always about agriculture and agriculture must be a strategic branch of the economy, there isn't, there's no talking about it at all. And this increase in the position of agriculture certainly gives people who are dealing with food production the optimism they need to place agriculture where it belongs. Perhaps this crown has taught us something that self-sufficiency and self-sustainability must not only be some paradigm to be talked about but that it must be the habitat of our economy in the next 5, 10 or 15 years. And without investing in agriculture, Mrs Vucilović said something about it, without setting up infrastructure facilities where farmers will store their food and wait for a better price that will happen sooner or later on the world or European market, I think it's a good thing. In one part I will agree with Mrs. Oreshkovic absolutely, there is no speech, and these are transparent local, regional budgets at the end and the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government has already given certain guidelines to local and regional self-government leaders and I think there are no problems. I believe that the minister has absolutely no problem with it, nor does the Prime Minister have the right to see how money is spent, the way that money is spent by clicking the mouse so he can see whether the mayor or the mayor of the municipality has had coffee today or not, I think that's what happens to them at the end of the line. But a lot of local self-government is basically just hiding behind this transparency, and then even when you ask a question on the city or municipal council to deliver the fourth or fifth or third or fourth level of the local budget, you can't reach that data for a month, a month. So to get to what we're talking about, it's gonna take time to think it's good in that way. But in general, I'm not a financial expert, nor do I want to court it, but I'm reading one policy of the government of the Republic of Croatia and the Minister of Finance, to go to that one. The target we set for ourselves five years ago and a little over five years ago. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50769	Thank you. We have multiple replicas, the first respected representative of Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50770	Here's the esteemed representative you called me to show all the HDZs as corrupting, that there are among you and the honest ones that you should associate with. Not to put you personally in an awkward situation, there are not many HDZs presently in the assembly, but you who are here invite you to stand up all of you who are ashamed of the fact that you are members of a political party convicted of corruption. I invite you to stand up individually each and every one of you who is being fenced by Josipa Rimac of Barisic and all others, so that I do not now list them by name which are at some stage of the procedure concerning a serious corruption affair. Here, Mr. Boric, at least you want to stand up as a sign of support for us, who we think all of you HDZs are more or less the same because you hold the lottery to one and the same corrupt authority, or you will stay like this in support of your own political party, that I know who I should sit down with and drink coffee with.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50771	Dear Representative Oreshkovic, I know that you will again dictate that I have something against you, which is not true, but you have now violated the Rules of Procedure. Absolutely, you said absolutely nothing about the budget but exclusively tied yourself to a single line of speakers, and then actually replicated fellow Boric who had spoken significantly before and I am therefore giving you a warning. The next one will be. My colleague, Boric, does not need it, I have already made it clear that he has been injured by his rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50772	Dear Vice President. Art. In 238, the lady demeans HDZ MPs by not knowing how many times and it's okay that you gave a warning, but I didn't know that you were going to give it, so I also raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure because in the same way I could ask her as she asked us.../The speakers speak at the same time./... whether she was bothered by the conflict of interest of a lady who is in your club, and you were the chairman of the Committee for Conflict of Interest. Will you get up now? You don't mind me saying you don't mind and tolerate it and that it's normal for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50773	Okay, this is how you and your colleague Boric get a warning because that's not how it works. I'm asking you nicely to stop this nonsense. It's really been a one-level debate so far, and I think it's been constructive, and I think it's been good and it's supposed to be the way it is when it's being discussed on such an important subject as budget rebalance. Let's not vulgarize her now. If there is a need for an answer, please, honourable representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50774	Well, I'll use it, thank you, Vice President, and of course I'll use this time to answer. I don't know why you have this permanent enthusiasm and each time brings you in that sense. But I know that you would like Mrs. Oreshkovic to be both a cadiya and a judge and to lock us all up at the same time and blame us globally for something, there's no need for that. I said that there are beautiful people sitting here and I'm holding on to it, that's my opinion, my attitude, and absolutely there you wouldn't move away and that's why you'd get up, for those good people, of course you'd get up. The fact that there were some thieves, criminals, so don't deal with it, the HDZ Representatives Club, or will never deal with it. The authorities in charge of these matters are involved, so we see it today with what happened to judges in the Osijek Court. So, please give us more here.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50775	Thank you very much. My colleague Ivanovic, you've now scarred him, which we're going to start talking about now. I'm asking you nicely it's headed in one direction that's not the way it's supposed to be. What's the damage to the Rules of Procedure? Dear representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50776	The Honorable Chairman. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure. 238, as well as 235 relating to the replica. And this time the breach of the Rules of Procedure was done by you because if you gave me a warning saying that what I said was not a replica then neither Mr. Ivanovic could give an answer to a replica that was not. Mr. Rainer, you don't know how to hold a session.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50777	Great and because I don't know the foundation of an article. In 240th century, I give you a reminder by taking away your word. Dear representative and vice president of Sabina Vosovac's home.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50778	The Honorable Vice President of HS. I think you missed reacting in the same way as the foundation of the article. 238, it is true that you gave your colleague Oreshkovic a warning because in your replica, as you said, I quote "no replica had anything to do with the budget". After that, Mr. Ivanovic, who also responded to the replica in a way that his replica had nothing to do with the budget, passed the subject of the budget without warning. These aren't exactly criteria for all the same and I'm asking you to judge in the same way.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50779	As you saw I judge in the same way, I and my colleagues Boric gave a warning because he spoke the same completely off topic, this was the answer. This was an answer, not a replica. Excuse me. Please, let's all get serious, now we're all gonna get serious and get back on the subject, and that's a proposal to change and supplement the state budget. [[Intruder Voter: But he was off topic.]] We've been having a nice whole series of hours about it, and I don't see any reason why they'd be going to some sort of afternoon thing right now. I don't know what to call it at all. The next replica of the esteemed representative, Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50780	Here's a thank you. I will try to get back on the subject or replicate what my colleague was talking about in his presentation, which is about local self-government and reminding me that here are some very good HDZs, the very prime ministers of the HDZ as early as 2015. they said that the number of cities and municipalities should be reduced, how local self-government should be reformed, how it should be reduced in order to move the funds to the real sector, how reforms will be implemented as soon as possible, given some deadlines, here to this day, there is no reform of local self-government, no reduction in the number of cities, municipalities, counties, so here you may know you may be closer to the altar, so you know when, when it will happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50781	Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50782	Thank you very much. I do not have that information when it will come, it will certainly come to the agenda, but not in the sense of how it is called here in the Croatian Assembly, especially by some MPs, that local self-government should absolutely be abolished, that they should be united and drawn to large cities, wrongly by me. We wouldn't be here today if we had such a local, local self-government. A rational local self-government is absolutely yes, it's a very complex question of what a small municipality is, what a large municipality, what is successful, what is failure. I think there's enough space here, we've already changed some things in this Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, and I'm the advocate of not having to abolish small municipalities at any cost, we need to see what status we're going to give them, but by abolishing the municipalities we absolutely wouldn't do good to Croatia, and I certainly won't be a advocate of that.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50783	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50784	Thank you very much. In this budget, the largest amount is given for healthcare, for the problems we have in health care, they are huge. I can talk to you colleagues about my county, about home health. Decentralised funds provided by the Ministry of Finance i.e. The state counties in my county are not used for what they are intended to do, to ensure that our citizens' health services are on the whole territory of the Republic of Croatia equal, and they are not. Here in my Sinj all year round, literally every year at the home of health changes the roof and every year leaks and thus falls into the stationary diagnostic equipment, in the maternity ward, in all the offices and others. How do you interpret the outflows of our doctors from our homes of health mainly in rural areas and growing losses and that our people do not have health care services in these areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50785	Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50786	Surely one of the big problems, I was deputy mayor, so I know exactly what you're talking about. Osijek-Baranja County has changed the Law on a health care system in our county united them into a unique House of Health of Osijek-Baranja County and thus reduced that part of the director and administration that was in that section, but we have this one thing that may be rarely spoken of. The doctor in the home health system has a salary somewhere around 10,000 kuna, and the doctor means the family doctor who is in the concession can come up with that his salary is about 25 or 30,000 kuna and it's just hard to put doctors in the function of the home healthy, and especially when we want to put a network, expand as much as you just can't have a doctor in every place because at that call absolutely no one will answer You've seen what's going on on and on the islands to give both the house and anything, and yet no one will come. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50787	The next replica is respected MPs and vice president Sabine Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50788	Thank you. Mr. Ivanovic, you said this to support the transparency of the budget, although I am talking about the state budget, but as well as that transparency is sometimes just a pose. Okay, but I would also like to see among these cities and municipalities that have gone with transparency such as Trogir, Primosten, Omis, Kastav, Labin, Bjelovar, Zlatar that there is at least one municipality or city for which the responsibility has taken over HDZ, but obviously this transparency is not right for you because it is much harder to work in the party and in the private interest that in translation it is called conflict of interest. And therefore probably a colleague of this Oreskovic and has negative experience because HDZ's were frequent guests while she was headed by the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest. So one of your former presidents ended his career there, unfortunately, and the other president at the Croatian courts. And these are eclative facts, but I don't see what I see as a problem with this transparency. What's the matter with you?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50789	Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50790	No, reverse thesis, I'm a proponent of transparency, not that she, she bothers me. Mrs. Oreshkovic has a phobia towards us, that's something else, but here I'll give you one city that will be among the first, which belongs to 4 major cities, the city of Osijek, the new mayor of Osijek Ivan Radic will certainly be the mayor who will introduce a transparent budget that every citizen of the city of Osijek will be able to check by clicking on what the mayor paid today, to whom he paid and how much he paid. So let's not share that HDZ's are non-transparent, and all these others are transparent. There are many examples now that we draw them to the surface and list them. I am for transparency with absolute heart and soul that every citizen knows where public money is spent.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50791	The next replica of the respected representative Vlasic Iljkic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50792	Thank you. Your Honor, you also mentioned a system of disposal and investment of millions of funds in a drain system throughout cities and municipalities. Unfortunately the quality of the works was questionable, spent funds were spent in vain because, for example, the works in Posjestina after the 10th month when the great flood they had had their test already here this weekend. All the works that were done showed their shortcomings, the dams broke, the foothold that was made in the village of Drškovci showed that the unprecedented flood, and also means there were, was much greater damage than it had ever been in previous floods. How long will the citizens be paying for these doubles? And until when will the citizens pay for someone's incompetence. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50793	Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50794	Thank you very much. Yeah, now we've opened it up a little bit deeper and wider. Of course there are bad contractors. They'll always be in the building. But let's be honest, the government is here to worry about providing funds through a public procurement system to get the best job and not doing things like this. But let's be honest, someone's here, and we're gonna be having some trouble with the fact that we don't have enough construction operations. But I think cases like this are probably something that can happen. Out of 100, maybe one of these will happen. But it is primarily up to the head of local self-government to get to the best, best quality and insurance systems to cover everything that could possibly happen to bad works.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50795	The next replica of the respected representative, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50796	Thank you very much. We heard from your discussion transparency, openness of the budget. Everyone needs to know everything. So we heard the replicas. Of those who have now taken office and have already sinned in the first step but forget that they have sinned, these are my friends, they can go into the administrative council without competition even though we have said that with the competition etc. So we have transparency again is an important moment in the creation of some obligation that you will see there as a result of some process. That's what my colleague Oreshkovic used to say here. Perhaps then we too would find out that there was a famous contract in that public company, and that should be welcomed in that way. But now comes the time of trial, of examinations and of all that we will see through the largest city, through another great city, etc. Let's see how that works. I also want to know how my colleague Bulj will handle the base stations in Sinj as the new mayor. I congratulate him. I expect that result by the end of the term to see how it goes, how it goes with the drain, etc. That's it. But did we all when we said we're transparent enough to solve the problem? No, because we still don't know how that obligation that we see through the OIB or the name of a company or a person occurs.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50797	Thank you. What's the matter with my colleague Bulj? What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50798	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. A colleague, Boric, injured Article 238. I don't know if I'm in the budget if... Under Mira Buljo. [[You don't understand.]] He mentions me every time. He's obviously having a problem with me winning this election and chasing your party down for the first time since 90. ... That's the way. [[You don't understand.]] He's obviously hurt the Rules of Procedure, so please give him a heads-up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50799	Okay. I estimate he hasn't been injured by the Rules of Procedure. But I ask you all nicely on the one hand, on the other hand, in the middle, in the middle is just a fellow Bulj sits down let's go back and say so again from 9:30 to 4 p.m. we discussed it really constructively, really good about the changes and additions of the State budget with various aspects. Some have had serious objections, some have praised it, but that's normal. Let's go back to the subject. Now let's not throw all this serious stuff into the wind for hours, turn out to be as insecure as we often turn out. A colleague, Ivanovic, if you think you need something to answer, go ahead. No, I don't. The replica of the respected representative of Begonja.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50800	Thank you, Vice President. You mentioned to your colleague that the government has helped local self-government units to increase their budgets significantly through a number of rounds of tax reform and other measures, and that is correct. But also through this rebalancing of the state budget, we also see that funds are being provided for the EU Fund for co-financing of projects, which is important for local self-government units, especially those less developed, because this will make it easier for them to co-finance EU projects through this new multi-annual financial perspective. So please comment once again on the importance of these changes in this co-financing segment of the EU Project Co-financing Fund.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50801	Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50802	Thank you very much for asking. Without it, there is no future of local self-government units. With these changes 250 million to 2023 somewhere over a billion and 900 million kunas will be provided for exactly what you were talking about. One of the biggest injustices of the fiscal ones that has been corrected, and it has been corrected thanks to the government of Andrej Plenkovic, and here is the finance minister from 2017 when we returned the indexation to the local self-government units what belongs to them. And let us be honest from that year 2017 you can follow the curve up and you will see that there is not a single municipality without fiscal strengthening. And what's important and that's what I'm going to end up with, this government really isn't looking at who's ours and who's theirs and it's one of the few governments that doesn't close the taps to anyone, but to everyone, to all the local self-government units adequately to what they reported... Thank you. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50803	Thank you. Thank you very much. The next debate will be the respected representative of Erik Fabianic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50804	Listening to the previous debate, I came under attack to use my individual discussion to replicate a little bit, but I won't do too much. I will start with defence, defence related to Maastricht themes, or the issue of euro zone regulation, and it is very much the subject of budget and budget rebalancing. That's what some of my colleagues used to talk about. It is very important exactly what the French-Italian initiative is saying because the question is the same as how we as Croatia are going to ask ourselves about it. But my information is a little different. It's not about rewriting, it's about changing it, it's about implementing it. Namely, the intensity of the contract, the Maastricht Treaty de facto, is a little better interpreted, and the question now is what kind of attitude we will take because it may depend on this future agreement or the implementation or better writing of certain items of the Maastricht that Croatia can possibly profit from, and this may be the cause of a future rebalancing. In fact, what are certain countries to stand for, I'm not going to name them? Suppose that we did not have money in Croatia or that we did not get EU assistance in connection with the earthquake, so we have to separate from our budget for the earthquake or that we will not get money for the Pelješki bridge but rather have to build it ourselves, so we are in debt for it, and at that point we are increasing our deficit because we are entering certain borrowings, but then we are also entering the risk of entering the excessive deficit that we were the victim. So the question is, what can the cost of deficits get into the deficit regime? I know the Italians spoke very highly of refugees because they have a great cost of refugees, nor do the French have small ones, it's not just a question of refugees. The de facto of this country, as far as I know, requires clarification or better interpretation or elaborated certain items that are related to the Mastricht Treaty and the same question that we will be asked as a Member State, regardless of our influence, but in any case the impact may be quite important. I'm glad to have this budget and I'll look at it the most, because it demasses certain lies, demass certain lies and all the good news is that we have it. Not going into it that we can't see through the implementation of the budget if... building paints one tunnel twice or once, here goes my idolatry and that's where I end up, who remembers that story. However, here we had an election campaign and ministers and prime ministers were going around my end, and then we boasted that for the new Rijeka KBC, therefore not for the pediatric hospital but for the new Rijeka KBC that the state had given a billion and 100 million kuna. I'm not a financier, but I know what capital investments are and what the cost is. And then I saw that in the new Rijeka KBC in the budget he predicted 320 and some million kuna, it was reduced to 200 and some million kuna. I'm trying to find those billions and 100 and I can't find them. And you know where I found them? I found that other thing that's a classic item of the cost of KBC where billions and 100 were done, and it was planned to be a billion and 300. So the prime minister, who boasts of a billion and 100, did not say in public that he had taken off the Rijeka KBC 200 million, but not for capital investments. Capital investment is a written 250, 280 million kuna. Why do I say pee? Because in the meantime, since my previous debate on investment in Rijeka health, I went to calculate, the total number of employees in the Primorje-Gorski County statistical data from 2019, the average salary from 2019, on this I calculated the contributions for health care and then I saw that the Primorje-Gorski County singles out for health a billion and 800 million kuna, a billion and 800 million kuna. If we're looking at 30 years 'cause in 30 years in Rijeka, health care except for redesigning emergency medical care. We didn't have anything. .../Speakers speak at the same time./... [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50805	Thank you very much. You have two replicas, the first respected representative of Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50806	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Fabianić, I would like to ask you how much I know Rijeka already has a fourth level of budget transparency and, if I understand correctly. I understand that this level has over 700 pages and that it may seem to be pointless now..., however, I do not see the reasons why you think about digitalization being brought to those places in the hyperlink where we want to get into the details that we can instantly enter as you wanted for this case with the hospital and find it very quickly, as I am interested in asking you the same thing if you can say what you think about whether in such a link you should see these 5% that are going to be special and that any change of 5% must be in there so that we can all follow it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50807	Dear Representative Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50808	Now, you need to know that through one, so through one financial year things change. Now it's normal law that will determine whether 5% more than 5% less in these changes and in these re-uses. The fact is that one implementation of the budget, and one budget as such, is also always a controversy, will always be in representative bodies and here in the assembly because de facto when we talk about the budget you cannot prejudge, for example. ... associations will report to the tender and give you some funding. and we have the budget, but let the Minister of Correction go here to some other potentially third level, I'm talking about counties, cities in the implementation of the budget, but it can be achieved first much, much more, and it can be more transparent. But we must have some legal minimums, without further ado, but the issue of transparency is always a matter of political will, so what can be seen digitally because sometimes the calculations.../Speakers speak at the same time./... [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50809	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative,... Thank you, colleague Fabianic, dear representative Boris. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50810	Thank you very much. Comrade Fabianić, you were talking about a hospital for mother and child in these billions or, I hope that, if we talk about these billions and 100 then it's used as some total cost and preparation and the investment itself which is somewhere almost 900 million kuna plus what was before I think 90, etc., to get to that amount. And then I ask you how can the mayor of our mayor Mr. Komadin say that he invested as a county 300 and some million kunas in a port building, upgrade, etc., and he knows that he gave 10% or 20 in some investments that the rest came from the country's foreign level. So that's how anyone interprets it, we certainly won't see that 300 million in any implementation of the Primorje-Gorski County budget, right? I don't think so. Maybe at some port administration in their budget. That part and the mayor uses and says we did it. Let's be realistic then, but I don't think the Prime Minister said anything wrong here. What's going to happen in 2.5 years, that object will happen and it's more or less close to the end. And then we're going to add up... [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] [[The speaker speaks at the same time, he doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50811	The response of the respected representative Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50812	Mr. Boric, we can talk about port administrations for a very long time because it is not the subject of this debate, but we could really, because both founders and de facto investors are the port administration of which is the founder of the county. That's it. And as for the KBC itself, please read the budget and look at the individual items and if you find 900 million kuna, I'll buy you a drink. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50813	Thank you very much. The next one will be spoken by respected representative Martina Vlasic Iljkic. Here you go. Come on, come on, not from the spot, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50814	I would like to thank the Vice President, the Honorable Minister, the esteemed colleague, the esteemed colleague. According to the proposal for amending and supplementing the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2021, a reduction of budget resources for the guaranteed minimum fee has been proposed, i.e. Social aid worth 15 million kuna. According to the 2020 Ombudsman, only 7% of people at risk of poverty are covered by this social assistance. At the same time, when we have an increase, at the same time as we have a reduction in the budgets for the guaranteed minimum fee, we have an increase in funding on the one-off fee item and that amounting to 6.5 million kuna. What these data say is that better direction of social benefits is needed, surely the reason is not the unused funds for the guaranteed minimum fee, that the person, the number of persons at risk of poverty, has decreased rather than the need to adopt a new Social Care Act that will be a step in time, and since the old one was adopted in 2013 the criteria and the censors changed within.../incomprehensible...... within the last 8 years and given the increase in the cost of life. Rights should be revised in the best interests of users, and criteria and censorships should be set to help families in poverty who are not receiving or are below the censorships prescribed by law. For example, for a four-member household the amount of the guaranteed minimum fee is 1900 kuna is not enough to meet the basic needs of life. The most endangered are singles who receive 800 kunas guaranteed minimum fees or working incompetent singles 920 kuna, guaranteed minimum compensation, and the most endangered are single-parent families. The increased payment of the one-off fees in which I was introducing them are actually talking about trying to compensate the system for the need for basic living needs through the payment of such fees, but the payments of one-time fees are up to 2 months late and if we take a period until we reach a solution, procedures can be delayed for up to 6 months, except in emergency situations where compensation can be paid immediately. The increase relates to one-off fees and to the need for earthquakes when there was an increase in demand in the mammalian area, and also to the increased need for a one-time follow-up in the area of Positina due to the floods that hit the household, so I ask you to keep in mind that families need financial assistance and to be provided as soon as possible. What is further devastating is also to reduce the extra charge for children of 335 million kuna. In a number of cases, child care benefits are used to meet basic living needs, to settle overheads, and not unfortunately to support child support and child rearing. In particular, children at risk are guaranteed minimum fees. Although the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Supplements for Children in 2018 has increased the income price to pay for children per household member to 70% of the budget base, amounting to 2328 kuna and more children, the fact that the number of users has decreased, which is due to the eviction of entire families, which is due to fewer children born and, in fact, to the lack of well-planned planning and pricing. The number of users, for example, in the April figures, of child allowance for 2021 was 130 772, while in April 2020 there were 141 240 users, and for comparison with 2016 the number of users was 174,576 users. Or if we're going in the number of kids, so the difference is that it's 2016. 320 896 children were included, and in April this year 256 099 children. We also do not see the financial impact and the announced Law amending the Household Act since the items in the household area are not increased in projections for next year. Growth in poverty from the earliest age reduces the equal opportunities of a child in education, availability of different contents, and since preschool age also affects the health status of a child. A series of research has shown a link between poverty and financial difficulties with the functioning of the family. The SDP tabled a proposal to amend the Children's Compensation Act in terms of increasing the amount in which it is still not sufficient, but we certainly are not to reduce the budget items for child's allowance, but for the most urgent change [[Intruder: Thank you.]] The law to spend these funds.../incomprehensible/... [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50815	The next debate will be a respected representative of Mira Bulja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50816	Vice President, thank you very much. Ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Every budget when I start to speak, I'm sorry the minister doesn't stay, he had a call, in the rebalance of this budget it's visible that, as well as all the budgets, our money leaks non-transparently and that this way is threatened, mainly health care in the Republic of Croatia, i.e. health services. That these billions and 400 million we're going to give to resuscitate health care is essentially a reflection of the poor health policy. The Croatian state invests a lot in the people, i.e. in medical staff through school, however eventually those people who are educated are simply forced to go out. That's visible from this budget. And that's visible in the field. Once again, health homes, when mentioned, in Split-Dalmatia County are graves of health care, health services. In us, in Split-Dalmatia County, which are led by colleagues, our colleagues are a fused home of health. Decentralised money, co-workers from the ministry, which has been decentralised for health care, must have reached the edges of the county. He's not coming. I can list countless examples. Health services are getting worse, worse and worse year after year, and we are basically brought in to give rebalancing for health care and health care must be financed. But the fact that we need to see the cause of the problem, and the cause of the problem is intransparency. I repeat, on health homes, mainly in Split-Dalmatia County, the largest county that has centralised health care homes, 13 outposts have been brought into chaos. In chaos. I only mention my Sinj, the Cetina region, which has more inhabitants than Licko-Senj County, which has more, which is superficially larger than Međimurje County. As far as health services are concerned, he's been brought to the bottom. Not about people who work and medical staff and then the minister comes here to praise, health care, Mr. Beros that in the Covid crisis the medical staff has supplements. I repeat, one more time. Did you know that during the Covid crisis, the employees of the only hospital in Dalmatia, General Hospital, General Hospital I repeat and Veteran Hospital in Knin, have not received kuna travel expenses for 8 months. It's those who travel 200 kilometers a day. From Sinj, from Sibenik, Drniš did not receive the kunas in the Covid crisis, medical staff, nurses, doctors, those who work in the laboratory, that's a fact. All we can think of is those ends when it's a storm or when it's some sort of event. After that, forget it, it's over. When we talk about agglomeration, agglomeration, and we're talking about agglomeration because of market prices today, we have a problem because of the bad projects. Here, the agglomeration of Sinj, where the sewerage is open, passes through the centre of Sinj in the river Cetina, which feeds half of Split-Dalmatia County, and soon the whole of Dalmatia because Jadro is in trouble because of the lack of protection of the environment, which is being done on the junk of what is not to be done, rather than to protect him. Because of the 150 million overestimated value of the project, it was questioned and an open sewerage, feces, enters the river Cetina. In our pearl. It is similar with Krka,... similar in all of ours, Zrmanja, so we're talking about agglomerations instead of the state being here, I'd be pleased to say, I've given the amendment, 150 million kuna we have to do that agglomeration, sewerage to save our Cetina. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And people's health. In the 21st century. Open sewers at the centre of Sinja go. I expected to get rid of it from the state level, if it could be in other places, why not in Sinj, Cetina, and in other cities to protect first and foremost people, as well as our rivers.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50817	Thank you, Mr. Bull. Stay, stay, Mr. Zekanovic asked for a replica. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50818	Dear colleague Bulj, I'm glad you touched those points too, so it's about ecology, or famous agglomeration, and here you have a lot of right and my full support. From this place, I would like to take the opportunity to congratulate you again publicly on the fantastic result in the city of Knin and you and your advice to just run the financial Knin completely the opposite of what the current government is running the state. And then you can't really make a mistake. So all what the state is doing right now is doing the opposite, and then Sinj will be on the right track, and here, a small note, about this rebalancing, is interesting that it is hidden, or not said, that Croatia has not received a drop of those released billions of euros that have been announced. Here, maybe your comment on that.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50819	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50820	Thank you very much for your congratulations. The people decided, the people always decided, the people chose me as mayor of the city of Sinj with a large majority of votes and I was proud of it, however, after 5 years of national policy, to return and recognizable to their midst, which is the hardest thing to be champion in their village, and I am pleased, above all, to meet with Mr. Vukovic, who deals with this problem and many cities is already... Let's see the ways and models as soon as possible of a transparent budget, so that my fellow citizens, Sinjani, and you all, the whole public can see how much coffee I had, how many lambs have eaten, how many oxes have been roasted, how the campaign has been won, and who has enjoyed it all, as well as boredom, right? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There will be no more, and therefore I expect as soon as possible, I wish I could now, but there must be legal procedures and I expect that we will have that application, a transparent city in the city of Sinj as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50821	Thank you very much. Mr. Miletić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50822	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Radin, colleague Bulj and Minister. Here's what you and your associates are very important to me, so I want you to be heard. I want your comment. So we have 1600 children of young people with Down syndrome in the Republic of Croatia. They abolished a fee of 1250 kn. Now it's about 300 kn, 350 kn for disability. These people are life-long, they have Down syndrome and it's not big money. And please get out of this place without any pathetics, and without anything we don't need in politics, we return that fee to the people with Down syndrome and we do and here we are as the state here as we can for these people. There aren't many of them, but we need to take care of every man in the Republic and we need to take care of every threat and need in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50823	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50824	Thank you very much. The minister heard so we can answer later, but I can tell you what I can do. I now as Mayor of Sinja with the opposition council can rebalance if it is true to allow our children, our great hearts, ours with Down syndrome to make that compensation possible if the state has abolished. That's what I can do as head of a local self-government unit, but I expect the minister to find a way and a solution for those children who deserve it to return to our children. It is very important for me here to note that in this budget it is very important, here in Sinj this year there is no possibility for 150 children to enroll in kindergarten. We have to work on this and on the Barcelona Council of Europe in 2000, whether it will enable 90% of children to have the right to kindergarten from 3 to 6 years old, because such children are, later on, have means by research much greater opportunity to progress later and have higher education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50825	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. But Hrvoje Zekanovic asked for a break. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50826	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, I demand a break from the Club of Croatian Sovereigns for 10 minutes. Here is the opportunity for Minister Maric to be in the Assembly, to warn him again in this way, and then he can also, as a proposer, actually take the opportunity to come to the pay phone and answer. It's all of us. It's been almost five hours for all of us, but I think some things should be said. And here's one particular question about my Sibenik. So, about one of the strategic projects of the Croatian government and this is about the Batizla zone. So, is there any serious intention of the Croatian government to put the project into operation, that is, whether the Government of the Republic of Croatia and some kind of budgetary means and some of its initiatives will help the city of Sibenik put the project into operation quickly, given that it is the greatest potential for our Homeland, for my Sibenik and for the Sibenik-Knin County. Here's something that this budget doesn't have, and not only does it not have a budget, but it kind of fell into another plan. Here's if you have a reason, and I think you have reason to take advantage of the opportunity, so answer my question from the pay phone, if not, and that's legitimate.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50827	Thank you very much. We'll proceed immediately to work, but of course the break is accepted. Now it's Mrs. Mariana Puljak's turn, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50828	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, here's just a few things I haven't been able to say on behalf of the club. In the final law, therefore, one interesting thing in the final law on the implementation of the state budget for 2021 seems to me that no one has commented, so the transitional and final provisions say during the time of the entry into force of this law will not apply the decision to prohibit the new employment of officials and subsistence in public services and decisions prohibiting the new employment of civil servants and subsistence in state administration bodies, as well as the professional services and offices of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Here's the interesting thing, so if the minister can comment later on why these decisions don't apply. So here's what I said earlier this year's growth rate is 5.2%. The government boasted about it, our decline was 8%, and that is the fifth largest decline in the EU. Besides, France is the order of countries whose economy, therefore, depends much on tourism. In Spain, the decline was 10.8%, in Italy 8.9%, in Greece 8%. As I was saying, the European Commission itself says that this economic downturn is such, in fact, that the potential of economic growth is so low that it is very limited by Croatia's ability to catch up with the economic strength of the developed countries of Europe. The prime minister, of course, boasts that the next few years will be high GDP growth. Namely, if we have had a major fall it is logical and expect it to be a great growth, whether the recovery of tourism will quickly recover and GDP. So in the first few years after 2020, those who have a large share of tourism in the overall economy are expected to have some kind of recovery. The question, however, is what is long-term with this growth potential. So in this short time, we may experience some kind of leap, but in the long run we will return to those rates that have been so far. So we talked about catching up with the EU and developed countries, and we need a minimum of three and a half percent growth. The National Recovery and Resistance Plan itself says that according to projections with the impact of the recovery and resilience plan, real GDP growth is projected to be 5.2. Without a recovery plan, it would be 4.9%. So every next year like that, 2022. 6, 6, 2023. 4.1 and here, in 2024, together with the recovery plan, we have a 3.4% growth instead of 2.5% without the funding from this plan. So we ourselves are unable to maintain annual GDP growth without therefore EU money. He's already in 2023. It falls to a poor growth of 2.7%. So here is how we will meet the neighbouring countries, that is, the EU's most economically wealthy countries. Therefore, neither the European Commission believes in Croatia's ability to achieve the necessary economic growth, and here it seems that the government itself does not believe. So I have said how economic recovery is not just to trust in European money but to solve structural problems, which is to reform the public sector. So it doesn't shrink, it doesn't reform. It was and remained the worst in the EU. We have a practice of direct state intervention in the economy and thus continues to be politically involved in state-owned companies. Here we have a recent case the prime minister himself was doing, so interviews for the main post in Podravka. The reform of the judiciary is no longer mentioned. Health care, here we have mentioned several times today crying out for reforms, cannot repay debts, the prime minister publicly says we need these reforms. However, here is the approval of a minister who does not implement these reforms. The reform of local (area) self-government is just a dream. I say here they spoke from Prime Minister Karamark in 2015.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50829	Thank you very much. You'll have... no, don't stay. Mr. Zekanovic was looking for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50830	Dear colleague Puljak, here I had no intention of replicating, however, when you began to ban the employment of public officials and deputies, I remembered one text I read a few minutes ago, half an hour before this debate, and it concerns your fellow party who recently hired the Administrative Board of the City Institute for the Management of Sports Objects of Persons without a tender. Oh, here's your comment. Consider this an opportunity to justify yourself to the Croatian public, because I have little to admit that I am a little disappointed in this together, and perhaps not. Here's to hear your comment on employment in a public institution past, that is, the Administrative Council past the competition.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50831	Here's great, thank you very much for this opportunity to justify Mayor Split's move. Therefore, the Administrative Council, or Director of this institution, a few days ago with the date of execution, so after 31 May, the day after the election made one decision extending the concession to one parking lot management in Split. Of course, the concession is awarded to a private company that is a friend of HGS, Keruma, HDZ. Contrary to the decision of the City Council a few years ago, which ordered that all parking lotes be placed under the control of Split parking. So, in order to prevent these things from repeating the following two cases, the same two parking lots that could happen, the mayor, by emergency procedure, has replaced the members of the Governing Council, appointed other members of the Governing Council only temporarily until there is no time, so who will then also replace the Director and prevent him from repeating this practice and will make a public call, so he will make a public call to which he will then appoint a new Administrative Council.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50832	Thank you. We weren't exactly on the subject of Mr. Zekanovic or you, but it doesn't matter. Let's move on. Mrs. Dalia Oreshkovic, please. The same final on behalf of the Centre and Voice Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50833	Well, I don't know if it would be brazen or naive to expect a resolute minister, and then the government would really pay attention to taking all the comments, criticisms and suggestions heard from the opposition ranks today, but I am here for the benefit of the entire state and all of our citizens hope that they will do so anyway. In the first part, I was saying something about fiscal transparency and what it should look like and what it contains. In the replica, however, I asked the minister a question and rationalisation of the expenditure side of the budget. Among other major costs of the state as a whole stems from an excessive number of counties, cities and municipalities and it is high time that here for the remaining three years when there are no election cycles at the door we are preparing this one deep reform that Croatia has been waiting for for decades. And this topic is not only important for the final state to move forward, to focus on the needs of our citizens and the quality of their lives, not as a service of artistic political structures, but also on what Marijana Puljak mentioned right before me about the exemption of the employment ban during the course of this law, or something like that in the transitional and final provisions. And there is indeed a need to streamline the entire public administration and public service. That's something I also asked the minister in the replica, but on that topic, she stuck her noodle in his throat and didn't say anything. The fact is that we need to do a detailed analysis, but a fair and fair analysis that will determine where we have a lack of personnel in the public sector, where these are people who are fairly underpaid on one hand, doing hard and responsible work and there are few, even too little and where there is excess. When we do this, then we will be able to come up with the first next budget debate that will really be content, in terms of focusing on those individual policies that are specific and slightly personal for each of us political parties, rather than being able to see the whole, and then treat the state budget as we would treat our own home budget by rerouting funds where there really are objective priorities that most citizens still agree on. And the other thing I especially need to say is this article of the 5th Law on the management of the funds for reconstruction and the powers now given to the famous and I'm going to tell the phantom fund. The phantom so much that there is a year almost since its existence we don't see any concrete results. In fact, when we passed the Law on the Reconstruction of the City of Zagreb and the rest of course by the earthquake of the affected areas, only four MPs voted against, noting that the law was inconclusive at the time, that it was bad and that it would be the biggest obstacle to the start-up of the reconstruction process. Today, the same fact is recognised by the director of this fund. Unfortunately, none of the MPs who have raised their hands for this law recognises their own responsibility, admits that the law has voted unprepared, populist, to be more successful in obtaining or receiving voter sympathy than one single brick has been returned to its place, restored or strengthened under that law. And what we are now actually doing by amending, or by adopting this law on the implementation of the state budget, we are giving power to this phantom inefficient and ineffective fund so that it can assume a commitment under a contract that requires a payment of up to a million kuna if it concerns the implementation of activities related to the Rehabilitation Act. However, no one continues to talk about the recovery plan, about the order of real estate to be renovated, about how much it will ultimately cost and whether a fair distribution is made. There's nothing to say about the results that we're going to carry out with such a renovation, which actually means that after a year and a half of the earthquake, we still don't know, not only did the state not do those implementation activities, but it didn't actually come up with a plan. If you don't have a plan to work on, and the state is going to raise money for it, then it's quite clear that the results will again be non-existent, corrupt and disappointing as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50834	Thank you very much. It is now also final on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club, Mr. Hrvoje Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50835	Dear Vice President, Your Honor. I'm glad you're here at the end of the debate, and I'd like you to pay attention to what I'm about to say. So the deficit was expected according to all parameters since we went into crisis. And there is not only a Croatian deficit, but all European countries have a greater or smaller deficit. Even Croatia is not the biggest. I would take this opportunity and point to two very important facts. One is that Croatia in this situation, in fact, could go to a larger deficit, perhaps even I will now say one heresis and should because perhaps Croatian entrepreneurship, blocked, completed, unemployed, Croatian families, Croatian children should have been more helpful but it was not for the simple reason that Croatia entered the RM2 course mechanism and that you ministers Maric and the Government that you represent at all costs wants to introduce the Croatian euro area, i.e. to introduce the euro. It's the first fact, and I stand firm behind it. If it had been at this point, it might have taken a little more debt to help the Croatian economy. The second thesis is that we still haven't received EU funding. There's no help. And let me remind you, this isn't the first time I've talked about it. In February 2020, the Prime Minister announced these funds. Today we've been here for the sixth month, in the sixth month, so it's been 18 months. I'm sorry, I'm miscalculating. My colleague is laughing at me right now. It's been 16 months and there's no money. And I would like it to be made clear here when these funds will come and the Croats and Croats realize that this money has not been donated, that it is the money that someone will be in charge of and the money that someone will pay back. On the other hand, I would like to finally start a reasoned debate in the Croatian Parliament on a very key topic which is the topic of all topics, and is related to your ministry, which is the subject of the euro, the topic of Croatia's entry into the euro area. I don't think a change of national currency can go through without a debate in the Croatian Parliament. I know your answer, you will say as well as the Prime Minister that by joining the EU, it has agreed to introduce the euro, but regardless of your thesis, or claim, I believe that this must be argued here. Not only to talk here, but to make one reasoned, professional, public debate in a public space that is not available. So that's not what we're talking about. Today we're all focused on the coronary crisis, on the number of patients, vaccinated, whether any tourist will come or not. Otherwise, the data is very exact. The season is worse than last year's, unfortunately, worse than last year's. I don't know if that's gonna fix it. I'm very skeptical because the coat of arms, the Spanish, the Italians are greener than we are. My unfortunately Sibenik-Knin County is currently the redest in the Mediterranean. And that's a big problem. Regardless of everything and regardless of your political position and attitude of your government, I invite you to finally start talking in the Croatian Parliament about entering the euro zone, to make one swat analysis, to create an argumentable public debate and to see what brings Croatia into the euro area. I'll say some pro and counter arguments right here. It may bring us a stronger connection with the EU, with countries like Germany, France. But I'm going to ask if we're going to economically prosper by entering the euro zone. It's a question of all the questions. Political integration, yes, but only in the context of a better life for Croatian citizens. So the rebalance is there, the deficit is huge, it could have been bigger, maybe it should have even been bigger. I said it, but I would like this second topic of all topics not to be camouflaged behind the corona crisis and any crisis of instability of the ruling majority in the Croatian Parliament, but to finally come out and start talking about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50836	And now it's on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club also final Mr. Erik Fabianic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50837	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. This is fortunately my first term in the Croatian Parliament. Why am I saying that? Because a miracle is the way this parliamentary body works. Why is it weird? It's funny because we're going to be discussing budget implementation, rebalancing and rebalancing, we have a notice that went on Friday about the debate plan during this week, so that the addition and the topic itself, so three points that were united de facto decided on the same day. There is no dispute that there is a procedure which is related to a public debate, etc. But this is still some kind of legislative home. Therefore, do you have time for that particular proposal and the document that is coming is exactly the same as the one that may have been at some debate of some interested and uninterested public. That's bad. Who was in the county or in the city or in the municipality knows that the rebalancing is certainly not the way to do it, or to call a session to get that day. It's in the Croatian Parliament. Look at me, if someone's used to seeing it, I'm not used to it, and I'll never get used to it. So it's a matter of procedural nature. The other thing is that I listened carefully and introducedly, I wasn't in the hall, I admit, that this is also about rebalancing which is related to the pandemic. But gentlemen, we also had a pandemic when we discussed the budget. So, that thing hasn't changed, it hasn't changed a thing. However, health problems have deepened, and this seems to have deepened. And then it's normal for us in this budget rebalancing to have holes in general in health but also in large drugstores. Normally, you can't show it in the first budget, because the first budget is not the budget. In that debate many of our colleagues talked about that pre-election budget and that budget was a pre-election budget, and what the rebalancing was essentially not a rebalancing because it was a technical rebalancing. What does that mean? That it's really that real budget, that real budget that's talking about having holes in the health care and also that we have a reduction in the funds that are related to the reconstruction. So this is the real budget that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are waiting for us in 2021 with one note. You know, there's always a phrase that the budget isn't sufficiently developed or that it's not visionary enough, etc. I think that this budget is highly visionary, because I think it's obvious that whoever wrote these calculations, who suggests it before us, has realized that Beroš is unable to do anything in health care and that therefore his holes should be shut down. But he also realized that his resolute colleague who has to deal with the reconstruction would not be able to spend all his resources, so we'd better cut them down. I then give really compliments to Mr. Maric, who is a visionary considering because he can well assess how capable his fellow ministers are. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50838	And now, on behalf of the promoter, finally Vice-President and Finance Minister Mr Zdravko Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50839	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, so here's the thanks in the end that the debate was expected to be very constructive, good, reasoned. It was also my expectation that we would personally lead a good part of the debate on health care, which is in some way a good part of the taste of this budget rebalancing. I think we have managed to clarify all the details and all the circumstances that are, and we hope, of course, that there will be a step up what I said I would fully understand that there is a need to make a comprehensive reform on the dissipating side. It is only a brief clarification to the representatives of Pulak in view of this particular issue concerning the Law on the implementation of the state budget. Therefore, in the same law of Article 58, it is very clear that it is a ban on employment, so it defines it as such. These transitional and final provisions relate to two government decisions that define the same matter, and ultimately put those two decisions out of force. So the moment they are put out of force, there will no longer be a need to put such a provision in transitional and final provisions. But in translation, there is no change. A similar provision was also laid down in the 2020 Budget Implementation Act. A lot of you have referred the same to the euro and to meeting the Maastricht criteria. The Stability and Growth Pact is also mentioned. Of course, I said something like that in the introduction. There's just some way we can say such conjecture at this point. There is nothing we can say with certainty and decadent certainty whether or not and when there will be any revisions to the provisions of the Stability and Growth Pact. However, we are still standing by that fundamental thesis, which is that the full budget, fiscal policy, is still in function and economic growth, preserving jobs, but also preserving health, human life. In parallel with this naturally offered to our experiences, not some others, but our experiences we have seen for ourselves what it means when you have deficits high, when public debt galloping grows even exponentially, what all the repercussions are both on ratings and on interest and on the property of the country both outside and at home. And finally, what I said was still behind the fact that there was no such policy responsible for our maneuvering space that was extremely important to happen at the same time, therefore adequate, but also timely to react would be where and where smaller. And finally, a colleague of Zekanovic, i.e. Zekanovic, only related to this timetable. So that's what I said first, so I'll do it again. 13% of the Recovery and Resistance Fund is planned as an advance this year. That's about 800 million euros somewhere. He'll be here by the end of the year. Whether it will be a one-time war or more, I would say less important, or at this point it is not completely clear because it will depend on the dynamics that the European Commission will come up with in international capital markets. By that moment, we have already withdrawn both the tranche last year and the scale of the programme which is a loan unlike this Recovery and Resistance Fund, which is a grant, that loan that needs to be returned. Just like that part we recognized in the budget rebalancing, since we have already withdrawn a billion euros from that same programme this year. Here again I thank you all for the debate and for all the comments and suggestions and, of course, I look forward to further points of discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50840	And replicas! Now the same Mrs. Martina Vlasic Iljkic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50841	Thank you. Dear Ministers, you are familiar with the floods that took place on Sunday in the area of Požetina. When we can expect to build an effective flood defence system in the Požetina area, i.e. whether Croatian waters planned for 2021 for such investments for an effective flood defence system and how to help families and households. Could it be expected that this would be like when the earthquake affected the areas of Sisak through the welfare center or in some other way. There's a lot of material difficulties, and the damage is huge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50842	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50843	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Well, here's if, maybe I'll make a mistake, but I don't think I will. I think it was one of the first decisions of the newly appointed and newly elected mayor of the Požega-Slavon County of Antonija Jozic to unfortunately declare the elemental disaster. As in this case, in some other cases, when it comes to this, so, unfortunately, Croatia is, and I would say, and quite often, faced with elementary disasters, the procedure is always the same. It is, of course, necessary to look at everything and look at and determine these damages and according to certain procedures that move from local to national level and, accordingly, to define the possibilities and capacities and help citizens who are naturally threatened with these floods. And as far as prevention issues are concerned, I think it's always a topic that deals primarily with the state-owned firm of Croatian Water, so of course we'll also ask them about whether there's anything else planned to do with the ongoing activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50844	Thank you. Mrs. Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50845	Thank you. Dear Ministers, persons with disabilities of the various mental state of remaining abilities and other diagnosiss, and children with Down syndrome are also entitled to a personal disability based on an assessment of the body's skills. So each individual. Here, in some ways, through perhaps unintentionally or because of lack of information, the question has been raised for you, so I would like you to tell the Croatian public clearly whether the budget has been reduced in any way by the funds intended for disabled persons in the position of a personal invalid, especially children with Down syndrome. I know it's not, but it's good for you to explain it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50846	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50847	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So you yourself, in some ways, responded through replica and comment. So as a modern minister, you know for yourself, there are some items in the budget that are subject to certain corrections, which are always the subject of certain corrections and potential reductions, but there are also items that we don't practically touch. So, our most endangered social and other, the most endangered groups and layers of society, so that you and the esteemed representative in no way are the subject of any austerity, reduction or should ever be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50848	Mrs. Grba-Bujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50849	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Minister with Associates. I would like to point out once again that this is a pandemic of unprecedented proportions, that no one could prepare, that the respirators had to be obtained, that the vaccine had to be obtained. Finally, it was necessary to adapt these hospitals to treat people with respiratory disorders. You know how much money we've invested in oxygen consumption in the hospital and a bunch of other things. But what I want to point out is that it is very good that this budget has finally begun to address the issue that has been opened since 2013 by another government, which is the compensation for overtime, i.e. overtime. That'll solve that one human problem that exists in health care, and that's why here's another time I thank you on behalf of all health care professionals to solve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50850	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50851	Thank you very much, Your Honor. As with the previous replica, as with MP Murganić, you are much better than I know the situation of the system itself because you are part of it for a practical working life. I can only confirm what I said and in the opening part, so just like you said the pandemic hit us all together that there was no one who could have predicted it. But the health system came in handy, put into operation, and especially when we look at some comparisons with some other economic and stronger countries than the Republic of Croatia, it actually reacted very well. And that's how it's supposed to be. It is up to us, of course, to make it what we are constantly saying both financially sustainable and stable because it is evident that the challenges of modern times and thus these pandemics that have now happened are still present and who knows what is waiting for us in some way further. In any case, my thanks to the same health care professionals and this way for everything they've done and what they've done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50852	Let's hope the worst is over. Here you go, Mrs. Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50853	Dear Ministers, can we get the budget in a format, i.e. in a way that we can see before the rebalancing items that have already been re-designed and can we get that in excelle for example format. And the second question, do you know what the amount is we had in the budget the funds that we would get or withdraw from European different funds without doing so.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50854	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50855	Thank you very much. Here we were on the parent committee yesterday. I'd say a similar discussion. So, all the documents you get and what's in your boxes are no longer printed which is good, but to view it electronically is in accordance with the provisions of the Budget Law. So, the plan column adopted by the Croatian Parliament voted this year to the day of today has experienced certain adjustments that are not specific to 2021. It was always and so, that, of course, the law provided for the possibility of up to 5% redistributing certain funds and that is all ultimately an integral part of this new plan column. So it's very simple to simply take two documents and compare what was originally planned. Just before some of your colleagues mentioned that theme of the three seas initiative. I just want to make a quick reference to that. So, on this initiative, our overall planned initial cost has gone up to 20 million euros as a minimum, let's call such a ticket entry for voting rights in this initiative.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50856	Thank you very much. Hrvoje Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50857	Dear Minister, thank you for finding the time to answer my question. And I'll give an answer to that. We will eventually get about 800m euros by the end of the year. That's all you... And the second part of the question is the issue of the euro which is the key point of your mandate. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] So, uh... [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50858	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50859	I only mentioned the shor program and the part about recovery and resilience, so the advance. Let's add to that the Fund of Solidarity for the Earthquake, let's add to that, of course... which is, above all, the most important part for the preservation of jobs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There are several of these items not to list, of course, the multiannual financial framework. As far as the euro is concerned, the Prime Minister and I have already discussed whether at some point in the near future it would not be bad for the Croatian Parliament to come to an additional debate on the euro, just to give the representatives whether they are plenary, whether in the context of some parent committees united, but however we will discuss where we are currently, as we are standing in the matter of meeting certain measures, these criteria and criteria which we are mostly dealing with here and here today, I would say. And that's what I mean well, because that's how it contributes to what we've been up against all the time and it's an argumentable debate and getting to know the entire Croatian public. Each citizen will have a natural repercussion of the introduction of the euro. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50860	Mrs. Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50861	When I say that one of the few cases I agree with my colleague Zekanovic, I also think I should have a referendum on the euro. I'm curious to know what you're planning with the 580 million kunas you won at the last auction of the vault records. If we could not use that amount for those items in this budget rebalancing that have really lost in this rebalancing, for example, a really dramatic situation. In head 80. The Ministry of Science and Education assistants in follow-up for children with developmental difficulties already in the budget for this year are 13% reduced, to get even less in the rebalancing process.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50862	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50863	Thank you very much. Now I'm particularly glad that I answered the final word, that I've brought some MPs closer together and reconciled so that I'm very glad. The vault records are standard, regular, regular sources of funding. These are short-term records up to a year which we generally on a weekly basis on Tuesday's auction, on Thursdays it's calming down, sowing that short-term liquidity. As a rule, for the past few years, the idea is that the total volume and state of the vault records begin to decrease. However, given the fact that they remain a very high quality source of funding, we continue to reach out to these activities naturally. So here's the vault log you mentioned I'll just repeat that a few weeks and a billion euros ago we issued on that market at an interest rate of minus a point zero point five. However, what I must say is a general source of funding for the overall budget not for some particular, specific purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-09-0.u50864	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. You don't have any more replicas. I'm closing the debate for all three points and we'll vote when the conditions are met. And tomorrow morning we only have one item on the agenda and that is the final bill on amendments and additions to the Island Act. It's a second reading. And that's Friday. [[You've got it all mixed up!]] Excuse me. I read Friday, sorry. Tomorrow we have two agenda points, the first of which is the proposal for a waste management law. Excuse me, it's happening. Session adjourned at 4.30 p.m. Mrs. Ruzica Vukovac will be the position of the House Movement Representatives' Club. Here you go.
