ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u42776	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. President-in-Office of the SS, Mr. Secretary-in-Office. The earth is very talented and very talented with the skills of endowed people. Sometimes in a joke we say that we have almost 4 million football menus, just as many top epidemiologists, fashion experts, unfortunately on the fingers of one hand we can list professional, internationally recognised people to fight corruption. So today I would like to talk again about the epidemic that systematically destroys this country, the epidemic of corruption. Where and how does it come about? What are the basic conditions for it to become so popular, who is corrupting whom? Like any phenomenon in this world, corruption is impossible without a human factor, without a political position, without interest and of course without the most important, with no money, and that of the sweetest, foreign money, or taxpayers' money. Local elections are at the door, many candidates are slightly revealing their programmes, but we hear little about corruption and the fight against it. It's all on one principle. My people, fighting corruption isn't an insult to the fact that it happened and didn't make a mockery when we see them arresting people, and they're hiding under the hoods of their designer coats. No, it's not a fight against corruption. We enjoy the punishments, we enjoy the alleged theft until they're proven and that thing stops, but the basic question remains where the money is, the cat fell. The fear of corruption is not exclusively in this material damage. Much more dangerous is the damage corruption makes to the moral tissue of our people. I would like to order this once again distinguished representative of Pupovac and Croatian and Serbian and any people living in this country I guarantee you that among the people who fill buses and trains for other countries looking for a better future of those who are not leaving just because of a small salary. But those who simply can no longer watch what corruption does to this country. So let's take the first step, realize that in the fight against corruption we have to move before it happens. These are steps we must take. Regulate public procurement, prevent conflicts of interest, introduce order into employment, reduce corrupt risks. These are all steps we must take to successfully fight the snake of corruption while it is still in the egg. Every honor of the work of this assembly that tries to pass many anti-corruption laws and create a framework, but unfortunately often very little is done in reality besides the adoption of the legal text. We'll take a look at the fact that we're very low on the corruption perception scale. That some respected European democracies are far ahead of us and even the first. What exactly is going on in these countries? Are they corrupt? No, they're not. Why didn't they? Because they cleaned up their country, and now they're exporting corruption. They trade corruption and corrupt in other countries. Here's just a few examples. The Finns put armored vehicles on our link. The Americans have cooked up a huge dialysis affair, and I hope you remember that too, and people who unfortunately have lost their lives. Car manufacturers make a lot of noise with exhaust emissions, and that's just the top of the list. So what do we need to understand? That corruption happens to everyone and that our local and regional self-governments find it hard to accept the idea that they should eradicate it, but if we get things back to square one, everything is as I say in almost every single one of my exhibitions very simple. How are we going to enrich the city's budgets, municipalities, counties if we can't get through the increased flow of funds, so we're going to look at where our money leaks, we're going to look at whether it leaks through budgets 5, 10, 15, 30% of the money, we're going to ruin that corruption, and there's money back in our budget. So we will invest it in well-prepared projects and thus improve the quality of our people in local communities. When we do so, when we adopt international standards to prevent corruption, it will be a pleasure to watch local self-government grow, progress, it will be nice to watch our wages grow, our pensions grow, our young return to Croatia. I'll repeat again whether those Serbs, Croats, Martians or residents of Beta Centauri will be nice to watch How we no longer have to fear for the future of our country [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] and his grandsons. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u42853	Now we're going to the third exhibition, it's the SDSS Representatives' Club, dear colleague Milorad Pupovac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u42854	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Last week at the time of the current hour, three speeches were held here, three anti-Serbian speeches. It's nothing new in Parliament, it's nothing new outside of Parliament. It's nothing or wise and it's nothing and it's not brave. That doesn't take wisdom, that doesn't take courage. Wise in this House and brave in this House, they rarely reached out to any kind of speech that would spread hatred toward others. I'll look back at one of those speeches, the next chance. As for the SPC, I will look back next time, I will now turn to the SDSS and Serbian representatives in the Parliament and in the government. State secretaries in each government and in each ministry are the same as ministers if the ministers or the government pass on their powers to that effect. Everything. To come to government meetings, to come to Parliament meetings, to represent programmes, to defend amendments, to adopt or not to adopt amendments. Or go to the European Commission, defend and advocate and negotiate on behalf of the Republic of Croatia. It was also done by State Secretary Monumenta Djuric at the Ministry of Regional Development, in the past term, under the authority of her minister. Not by his own free will and not by his own mind. About what? Decisions taken in other ministries on EU funds projects. And he's actually objecting to these decisions that have been settled in her ministry. And she signed the resolutions on those objections that were being accepted or rejected. She didn't make her own decisions. It was brought in by others, and they were checking to see if it was in compliance with the regulations. And it was also valid as one of the most qualified secretaries, State Secretary at the time, taking care of the interest, proper spending of European funds and proper advocate of the interest of the Republic of Croatia so that today one of the representatives who otherwise had no problem having the same solution, signed by the State Secretary in 2017 and 2018, would receive for his company as co-owner of a software company and not make an objection to him, and now he is very concerned about the state budget and what will be with the Republic of Croatia, it is about Agent Škori. So Mr. Skoro did not have a problem with the fact that Secretary of State Memorial Djuric signed a decision on the financing decision, the adoption of his project was correct. He had a problem with cases based on complaints and lawsuits which went to courts in administrative proceedings, and the courts were actually a metric, not actually procedural, because the complainants, prosecutors, the complainants, the measure of the decision, and not who, who signed it, some courts made the decision that the signator was not authorised, some did not do so and the case law was unequal. What does that mean? That all the solutions signed by the State Secretarys by the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Administration, the Ministry of Justice not to add any further, will now be collected as damage to the Republic of Croatia, as is the case with State Secretary Smonym Djuric. Why? Because she's from the SDSS or because she's Serbian. She's not like a Serbian, and she's not like an SDSS, she's a secretary of state there according to what she got from this government. He's not a member of the SDSS, nor did anyone ask her to be a member of the SDSS. And now let me just say this, about a trade coalition spoken by a party or a movement that is a party to the trade chain, and chains have never been an expression of freedom for anyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u42855	Thank you very much. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a colleague of the Dretar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u42856	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Art. 238, not that he's hurt, but it's just spit on him here. Dear Mr. Pupovac, if it seems right to me here, he has admitted to us that someone in the state administration is doing as someone tells him, no matter what it may be wrong. So, I would like to thank Mr. Pupovac for perhaps subliminally pointing to the Croatian public the fact that Croatian politics works, at least the current one. Someone's upstairs something.../The speaker's off./...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u42857	You get a warning because this wasn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure, but a replica, you didn't even listen to me around time, so one warning is enough. Meanwhile, a colleague of Pulak also reported on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u42973	I thank the President, here at the last minute I called to actually warn of a practice that is repeated. In fact, we are shocked by one bizarre news of the Croatian Tourist Board lawsuits against Paul Bradbury, journalists and owners of the Total Croatia News portal. It is a classic way of threatening and choking freedom of speech to silence criticism at the expense of a non-functional HTZ system that spends huge taxpayers' money. We demand the immediate withdrawal of the lawsuit and the replacement of Director Kristian Staničić. HTZ should see a partner in Paul Bradbury. The word is to a man who undoubtedly owed Croatian tourism by his actions, instead trying to intimidate and destroy him. This is just another proof of the eligibility of the request for voluntary membership in HTZ. If taxpayers were to get the opportunity to choose who they will finance themselves, many would rather invest in the knowledge and work of experts such as Bradbury instead of any of the 300 directors of tourist communities. We will strongly oppose any form of intimidation and assault against journalists, activists and citizens. Any attempt to limit freedom of speech, and in Croatia we witness almost daily, we find it unacceptable, so we will also work on procedures or legal changes that would prevent any such lawsuits. Freedom of speech is the cornerstone of every democratic society and the first line of defence of all other freedoms. In addition to believing that an open public debate on any subject has no alternative, history teaches us to persecute and silence non-insects, the whole society makes intellectual but also economically poorer. It's just an open exchange of ideas, but also a criticism of the guarantee of intellectual and economic progress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u42974	I thank everyone who participated in the debate. Now we're gonna take a break. We'll continue at 10 o'clock and 15 minutes, as announced. We have a lot of registered speakers, 11 clubs for now and 40, if I'm not mistaken, individual debates, so we certainly have a long debate ahead of us. Thank you. It's 10:00 P.M. We are going to the 2nd debate, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Sovereigns, the esteemed colleague of Hrvoje Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u43057	Now, before I go on the subject, I have to say that my colleague warned me of one thing, so I'm going to say it from the pay phone because it's good. So we're not talking in front of the club, we're talking on behalf of the club, and it's more accurate to say on behalf of the club, and I prefer it because it reminds me, it's associated with that referendum, "In the name of the family," so that's just the way it is. Just as many MPs often say "honored" which is not a Croatian word, or in Croatia is more beautiful and more accurate to use "respected" or "respected" fellow MP or "respected chairman" in the past, used synonymly "in charge as Argentina", "in charge as Greece", and today will probably be spoken "in charge as Croatia", "in charge as the EU", or "in charge as Sibenik". There are units of local self-government that are responsible for their money and that are not in debt at all. I'm here to commend, for example. The city of Vukovar, which is not obliged where the incumbent mayor of Penava, together with Deputy Mayor Pavlic, is responsible for the city's money and there are cities like Sibenik that are in charge and no one knows how much. I've tried here for a few hours to actually sum up all those loose debts that pile up from year to year and that are beating up every budget rebalancing and I've come up with over a hundred million kunas. But now it's hard for me to say whether it's exactly that much and that much. But you know what's funniest? What that money does when the city is in debt is not used for something that is really needed at that point, which is what citizens need, for example. for social services, e.g. for some infrastructure that is really necessary than for example. Now the city of Sibenik is in charge of a 10 million kuna video surveillance system. So we're going to have a Big Brother in Sibenik who's going to pay Sibenik for years with interest, I wonder who needs it? So whoever walks the streets of Sibenik will have, will be followed by someone or something, at any moment. Someone will say the city of Sibenik will be safer, no matter how safe it is, but if we need this video surveillance right now, at this delicate moment, at a time when not only the city of Sibenik, but the entire state, the whole of Europe, is the whole world looming in an economic crisis. I don't think that's necessary. Here I have to mention another topic on which Sibenik is a specific and special city. Higher universities or universities in Croatia are funded, you know from whom? From the country. There are private universities that are completely private and there is a university, a study that finances local self-government. And it's in Sibenik. This is a study of energy, or more specifically, a study of energy efficiency and renewable energy sources. So the study almost fully financed local self-government. Is that possible? Is that possible? Does that make sense? Is Sibenik so rich that it does something that no unit of local self-government does? Sometimes to be true, some units of local self-government know how to help a little bit, so they're working on building arrangements, infrastructure, but they've been co-financed for six years with millions and millions of kuna study programs, and here someone's not normal. Someone's throwing themselves away with budget money. And by name and last name, it is the mayor of Sibenik, Željko Buric, who in an irresponsible way has the city's money raising loans for video surveillance that we do not need and financing something that nobody does in Croatia, something that only he does.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u43129	Here's a colleague of Hajdas Doncic on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u43130	Thank you, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen. I am so glad that today in the Parliament it will be "my friend Andrej Plenkovic" that it may explain this trailer that we got instead of the film, and we are talking about the National Recovery Plan because this trailer is nothing and I am really glad that it will be here today to maybe explain what the goals, which are the deadlines, which are sectors in which Croatia "thinks lie". And I'm even more glad that maybe he'll try to explain to you and us today what these negotiations are with the pensioners, what they're negotiating positions, and why they're in what they're doing. The covid supplement did not include the unemployed and persons with low or minimum incomes. It will be very interesting because he is responsible for us here, so he is responsible for the parliamentary representatives and actually for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u43131	It's a surprise ending, so we have to move on. We're going to the last exhibit, the HDZ Representatives Club, a respected colleague of Gary Cappelly's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u43223	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs, so as we know, global crises, the global economic crisis and now the global health crisis or the Covida-19 pandemic. However, different crisis management models have shown who knows and who doesn't. The numbers are as irrefutable as the results. Just one day after the devastating earthquake in Zagreb in March 2020, we implemented a job conservation measure. == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man From today's perspective, we are talking about a total of 690,000 workers and 113,000 employers for which no less than 14 billion kuna is spent in gross amounts. For example. So far, no less than 715 million kunas, 50,000 workers, 10,000 employers have been paid in my Primorje-Gorski County. In Rijeka, we paid our support for 18.5 thousand workers and 4,000 employers, and we paid 242 million kuna for it. In the Gorski Kotar, which is once accepted as some isolated island, we financially supported 1,400 workers and we paid about 25.5 million kuna for it. So, the government of the Republic of Croatia was allowed to stand behind every Croatian worker and employer, and thus we preserved thousands and thousands of jobs both in my Primorje-Gorski County and throughout the Republic of Croatia. But we also ensured the safety and stability of the pension system because the pension system is also kept at work. So we mustn't forget that. In addition, since 1.1 this year, national compensation has been introduced, many have promised it, and this is the principle of solidarity and social awareness that we have introduced this very government, a national compensation for older people of 800 kuna per month. It is a monetary income that is intended for all elderly people who do not therefore have a pension internship of a minimum of 15 years and are older than 65 and have no other source of income. Aware of the difficult situation of the pensioners, the government has provided financial resources for the so-called payment of the so-called pensioner. Covid supplement. All pensioners who receive a pension of up to 4,000 kuna who have a residence in the Republic of Croatia who are therefore not employed. The estimate is that we will include about 844,000 pensioners. I stress this is a reception intended exclusively for pensioners, not all older people, except those who have a residence in the Republic of Croatia. It is therefore a one-time monetary income due to the mitigation of the consequences caused by Covid-19. Thus, pensioners who have up to 1,500 kuna will receive an allowance of 1,200 kuna, almost double. Those who have a pension between 1500 and 2,000 kuna will receive 900. Those who receive between 2 and 3 thousand kuna will receive 600 kuna and those between 3 and 4 thousand kuna will receive 400 kuna, so on. Covid supplement. The payment of the income for those who receive only Croatian pensions will be paid through HZMO at the end of this month. Probably our pensioners are wondering what I have to do to get to where I have to go. The answer for those who receive only Croatian pensions, you don't have to do anything and you don't have to go anywhere. Be at home, be safe and safe. The fee will be paid to your account or mail, depending on how you receive your pension. As for categories that are also receiving both Croatian and foreign pensions, they will have to submit evidence that their pensions do not exceed 4000 kuna. It is therefore very important that this supplement is not taxable, cannot be subject to enforcement and will not be included in the income censorship for the exemption from payment of the supplementary health insurance premium. Dear MPs, and above all, dear pensioners who follow this through the screen. We've increased all pensions by 13 and the lowest pensions by 17. We have introduced a national fee for elderly people of 800 kuna per month, and today, at the meeting of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, a decision on the payment of one-off monetary income will be made, so-called. Covid supplements because pensioners are one of our most vulnerable groups in society and are further affected by the circumstances of this epidemic. So on behalf of the HDZ Club, I will certainly support this government effort. and single-time insurance [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Payments. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u43324	Good morning, respected MPs and respected MPs. Like every Wednesday at the beginning of the plenary session, we have a position of representatives clubs and independent representatives. The first is the Club of Representatives of MOST, a respected colleague, not Bozo Petrov but Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u43325	Thank you very much. Here are the well-respected peoples of the last few days talking about and today they will be discussing the National Recovery and Resistance Plan. Now that we need to invest the most in people because much more than these funds will come from the EU cash register where Croatia is also paying in large amounts, people are paying a lot more, people who have moved out because of bad policies, 2/3 of Croatia that are empty and who have moved out and who, through transfers from abroad, send a lot more money to their parents and relatives, annually, two billion EUR. Five billion kunas a year. Here we are talking about amounts that should be invested in a man, in an OPG, in a family, not mentioned very little. It should talk about small craftsmen and small entrepreneurs to survive in those areas where you are from poor policies, catastrophic policies, policies that have not been implemented by even all the occupiers who have passed through the 1990s in those areas because the result is that these areas have been evicted. If those areas are evicted, who do we have to invest in? In man. Chovik must be the center of everything, as in legislation, and especially when it comes to funds. You destroyed my Dalmatia, gentlemen. Three years ago. I repeat, that more of our citizens who have evicted, young people, are paying through the accounts annually, it's from official data from Croatia, not from the national banks, that they pay a lot more than what this amount is we're talking about. To bring these people back, our goal is to bring back, the survival of the people in this area and the return of the people, the government in Split before 3rd year ago. promised two billion kuna projects for the Split-Dalmatia County. You know how many Kerum and HDZ coalitions have made, Ante Sanader, is Ante Sanader running away from the county, do you know how many colleagues and colleagues have been accomplished? Nothing, zero in Dalmatia. I can show the key projects, the key, vessels of the housewives that should be, which should be a vein of development, the fast road of the Cetin area with Split where Sinj and the Cetin region would become the most desirable area for life in the Republic of Croatia. The suburbs of Split with all its potentials, as well as the region of Dalmatia Zagora, key infrastructure facilities for which the current mayor swore he would have a tent here if it didn't come true, are traffic vertical connections with Split. Nothing's done, nothing's done, nothing's done. Dalmatia is empty, mostly frozen. Key projects we should have and which we would simply have to potentiate. Well, did he normally give up 6,000 acres in the Sinj field without a metre of water? Clear Cetina passes through the Sinj field. In Israel we have one source, several sources, more, more we have, a smaller source of the river Cetina in one day than in a year all the springs in Israel. They quote everything, the deserts make a agricultural surface, and in us weeds grow, weeds. It's not the people's fault, it's us as a body that decides on a nation that should be governed by every law, including this recovery, this fund should be for a man, not for a group of stakeholders. You're talking about digitization in the judiciary. What are you talking about? Well, you're not able to dictate to be e-mailed in the election. This is a hoax, and so gentlemen today let's think about what we're talking about, let's talk about people and others... areas. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u43326	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue our work as we have announced. - Information on a summary of the National Recovery and Resistance Plan 2021-2026. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 10:16 AM]] The applicant shall be the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. C. 123. c. 2. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Health and Social Policy, the Committee on Environment and Nature, the Committee on Justice, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure, the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on European Affairs, the Committee on Regional Development and EU funds, the Committee on the Economy and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. I welcome the Prime Minister, welcome the vice-presidents, ministers and I call on the now respected Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic to further explain the information, please. Wait a minute, come on, hold on, hold the plates until your colleagues and colleagues signal you that they've recorded you. Okay. Please, the Prime Minister is starting. Here you go, Mr. President. And colleague Selak Rasudic, please. Just, just, just, just a minute. Like this, counterpart Selak Rasludic, so the Prime Minister came here, the break may be after his presentation. So, you can't ask for a break in the middle of his speech. No, no, he came for the pay phone, stopped here, the lines were up, no pause requested before I announced, don't be angry [[Blower from the bench: He hasn't started yet]] When is the request for a break? [[Clip incursion: Pause requested]] [[Clip intrusion: There were also replicas before exposure and replicas went]] All right, well, finally, here's a request for a break. Okay. Then sit down, Prime Minister. Here you go, sit down, and then we'll hear the explanation of the break. For now, we have two requests, colleague Selak Rasdic and colleague Vukilovic, please. Then put down the replica boards, because let's go in order, first requests for a break, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44705	I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Most Club for 10 minutes. We didn't get a recovery plan, we only got information on the draft summary, so no draft, no summary. So today you will be justified throughout the day to hear criticism that this has arrived too late and that time is not enough. But Croatia does not have time for our bickerings. You asked for opposition proposals. So I'm going to use this pause constructively, and I'm going to give you five concrete suggestions on how to improve this summary so that we can together produce a document that will essentially determine our future in the next decade, and I expect you to be constructive as you announced and accept the opposition proposals. The first thing that is missing in the summary and what we need is the inclusion of the processing industry so-called. 4.0 Industry, the digitisation of industry that will bring a higher added value, is time for steps, not retaining on existing plants such as tourism. Another thing you lack, and what is the EU's request is gender equality in all segments that must be present in the document. This can also be used positively. For example, for 10 women during the crisis, 13 men died due to a lack of preventive checks, you must include this aspect in order to be resistant to future crises. You're talking about digital... It's time to go to the electronic vote and use this to democratisation society. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Education. In addition to the mere call on the stemm, we need to follow the world's trends and finally move towards interdisciplinaryism. And social policy. Not a word about protecting women from violence shelters and everything. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44706	The apartment is approved. We're going to another request now. Dear colleague Vucilovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44707	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian National Assembly. I am looking for a break on behalf of the Home Movement Club because, as counterpart Selak Rasdic has already said, it is a very important document that depends on the generations to come, and we have received information in HS, a summary, 80 pages of the whole document that allegedly exists. This document, which allegedly exists, depends on whether our average GDP growth rates remain 1%, whether the level of investment will be only a miserable 20% of GDP and whether our children will continue to go abroad because of the rent economy, nepotism, corruption and clientelism. What's ahead of us points to some clues and questions arise as to what we're going to discuss today. Here the copy paste technology overwrites everything we have seen so far in strategies, not one or more of them, in European documents, but there are no concrete things. Therefore, this document is too important for us to discuss information or at best a summary. The alleged document has a lot of pages, so you don't want to bother the public, the media, or the parliamentary representatives. Don't spare us. Don't bother us. If you have a document, show it. Why do you hide it like a snake's foot, and we all know that the snake's legs are gone? Disabling me. Show the public and Croatian parliamentary representatives a document of 700, 800 or 1000 pages that is reportedly finished or in Make it. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44708	The apartment is approved, no I will act in accordance with Article. 293b of the Rules of Procedure, so we're not going to take a break. [[Intruder: If there is.]] Comrade Dark-Taritash, here you are. ... Here, you have the right to do that. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here's an explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44709	Thank you very much, esteemed president of HS, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. We have today an extremely important document and please pause on behalf of Club Center and GLAS for 10 minutes. I'm sorry because, of course, since we have a little room in the assembly, then we who aren't here, we have to run. But well, that doesn't mean I don't have a chance to say what I'm saying, which is, the recovery plan and the resilience is extremely important. This is an opportunity for Croatia that must not be missed. If we miss it, it'll be a mistake for all the next generations and we have to take care of it. By reading the Plan, we who have allergies, we can get more cough or leaves, that's all that's been taken out of the closet, out of the drawer, all that's been covered in dust for years. Out there about ten years ago, I saw about a similar plan with the same or similar themes. What needs to be a step, there needs to be some kind of newspaper in this plan. So the EU, or the Commission, is asking us for a certain percentage of the topics that are related to green policies, themes that are related to digitisation, but also to a certain reform. Say one single reform that will be done, say one single step that we will take. Say one single newspaper, one new project, one new way to approach the problem, we don't see it in this Recovery and Resistance plan. Recovery, we need to recover, resilience, we need to be ready for the future, and if we don't do the job right, and I mean all together, it's really going to be a problem for all future generations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44710	Thank you very much. Stanka has been approved, I see a colleague called Tomašević, here you go and then, we have more, there will be more demands. Here's a colleague of Tomašević's.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44711	I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Green-Left Block Club on something that sounds very important, the National Recovery and Resistance Plan of 2021-2026, but then, in addition, it's so divorceal that it actually remains irrelevant. It means information about the draft summary. You claim that this document is finished and that it exists, but for some reason you only gave us a summary. I mean, it turns out that actually the National Recovery and Resistance Plan is the biggest state secret. So much state secret that neither we in the legislative body from which the mandate of the executive authority originates can we get that document. It's so much of a state secret. I guess it's because we don't risk national interests, or as you like to say in HDZ, because we don't like Croatia. So we don't criticise the whole document, because as you say, because we allegedly don't love Croatia, but you love Croatia who according to this summary, and the real projects we don't see, we won't make a real development turn for which this is our last chance. We in Can still be warned in October and asked to discuss this National Plan to make it in time, to discuss it in HS because the Parliament is implementing all the legislative reforms that are necessary, according to which these projects could be implemented at all. But instead, I'm afraid we're going, not on the path of recovery, but the path of no return if we don't make a developmental turn, which is now our last chance. On the other hand, as far as resilience is concerned, there's a lot of resilience in this plan and the projects we've been seeing for the last 15 years, the same projects that are being implemented from strategy to strategy, and that's what's recycled in this plan, that's what's actually the greenest part of this plan, means the projects we're going to talk about, concrete projects that have been repeated for 15 years from strategy to strategy and They have already received money for this from EU funds [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] But they've never been realized. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44712	We have another request. Comrade Stromar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44713	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister. I'm glad you're here today and we'll discuss what's ahead of us for the next few years, what resources are available to us and what we'll do. This is on the 80th page, this document, I think anyone smart can read in which direction we want ic, which is government policy and what citizens can expect. I am particularly pleased that entrepreneurs will see this document today, and they will be able to prepare themselves for all the activities that follow, and the activities are not small and therefore, here I am looking for a party on behalf of the CNS and independent representatives to review the document again and to participate actively in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44714	Okay. Is anyone else picking up? Then we will continue to work and now I call on the Prime Minister, Andrej Plenkovic, to present the document. I also ask you once again, so hold the tile until it is clear that you have been registered by a colleague or colleague. Thank you very much. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44715	Good afternoon. I welcome you all on behalf of the entire government. Here, with me today is a large number of ministers who, I believe, will be taking part in the debate with the representatives on this Information on the draft National Recovery and Resistance Plan. Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed parliamentary representatives and MPs, allow me to answer your question at first about why you have an 80-page document, not a 700-page document. So, as you know, the National Recovery and Resistance Plan that will be fusiond with the National Reform Programme is in its nature an act adopted by the Government, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, not the Croatian Parliament. I am on several occasions when I was in front of you during this term said that before the Government adopts this document on him, we will hold a debate at the Croatian Parliament. And that is why on April 1st, not as a joke, but as important information for MPs and MPs, we sent this 80-page document to the Croatian Assembly, which covers everything that is important in its nature, everything that is relevant in a large 700-page document. There's me thinking my advisor Savic Zvonko, I don't know if you have this big document next to you so just show it to those who think we're hiding it like a snake's feet, that paper really exists. It really exists, here it is. It's this chubby paper over there. Here. See, if we got a round of applause at the beginning, that's good. [[Applause.]] Thank you. Why, why did we refer this document to a structure that is not very small, when something is called a summary, there may be 80 pages in some methodology that sounds bad, but we found this as the most appropriate word since this large document is full of information about individual investments and reforms mentioned in the national plan. So that's the first one. Because it is still in April that not only enables resolutions to supplement the document, to listen to your suggestions, to continue intensive consultations that take months with the services of the European Commission, just as the Croatian Government is doing other governments, we wanted to have this public debate. You who, I'm sure you've prepared well for this debate could see on the 27-nation commission's website only 15 have a web page on this plan, 12 has no information at all. So there are some who are even less transparent than we are. And that's also important to say. How many countries have held a parliamentary debate on the draft acts of their governments that have not yet been adopted but are still completing it before us, I'm not sure there are many. We count 2 or 3 at this point, but we don't have reliable data. So comparatively speaking, this is not so bad or this is without great respect for the Croatian Parliament and the parliamentary representatives. And the third thing I'd like to point out is, because I can see that the topic, the topic, is private, the topic of public, investment, to which that money goes. So this isn't helicopter money. This is not the money that the government is going to travel through some water heater and give it to all the private companies that need it right now after the crisis. Which I understand they need, but that's not it. This is not the purpose and intention of an instrument called recovery and resilience. Here, so much for the introduction, and now I'd like to introduce it a little bit more detail. We've faced the pandemic of the coronary virus as a health hazard unprecedented over the past 100 years, as the whole world has faced. Three million people have died in the world so far. In Croatia, close to 6,400 of our citizens. It is for the whole society, and especially for the families of those who have passed an irreparable loss and invites us all to a high degree of responsibility. A little over a year ago, no one could even guess to what extent and how fast our lives would change. This epidemic has caused an economic crisis worldwide since World War II. In these circumstances, state intervention was necessary to protect health and life, and the instruments of the social state proved irreplaceable in saving the economy, jobs and to ensure compensation for those most hit by this crisis. To this end, we have provided compensation to many workers, those who would likely lose their employers without a job, without existence. So far, according to HZZ data, about 685,000, employers are around 120,000. We gave them money to pay, we gave them money to pay for their liquidity. Also, as you have seen these days, we have also made a decision on a covid supplement for pensioners, not as a pre-election move, but as an expression of social solidarity for those most vulnerable in Croatian society. And that's 860,000 pensioners for which we will allocate 600 million kuna. The tax write-off and the state's contribution so far has given up 13 billion kunas of revenue, and direct budget expenditure for the financing of crisis measures has reached 19 billion kuna. Out of that, 10 billion kuna for the preservation of jobs and 2 billion kuna for additional costs in health care. A total of the coronary crisis so far has cost Croatia 32 billion kuna at 8.7% of GDP level. Unfortunately, the pandemic wasn't the only accident. The total damages of two devastating earthquakes were estimated at 129 billion kuna. That's 82% of this year's state budget. It is all a huge challenge for the Croatian economy, for our citizens and what is crucial today when there is a vaccine that we can hope that in the coming months we will contain the epidemic, enter the stage of economic recovery, recovery from earthquakes and strengthen resilience to the future crisis. In addition, the European Commission forecasts for growth of 5.7% where we should have the largest growth this year with France and Spain. This is not by chance because this is the direct consequence of the measures mentioned earlier to preserve economic activity and to speed up the use of European funds and measures that have mitigated the consequences of the crisis. We aim to preserve jobs, raise employment, support our businesses and strengthen their competitiveness. As a member of the Union, we have a historic opportunity to add up to these European funds that we strongly advocated before the end of our government's first term, in the next 7 years when we also add up the multiannual financial framework and the EU next generation, another 5 billion euros to be spent and absorbed from this previous multi-annual financial framework, the total investment will be 30 billion euros in this decade. That's 227 billion kuna. It is more than Croatia, of course, has ever made money available in this way. 5.5 A previous financial perspective, 9 from all European funds and regional policies, so cohesion, 4.2 billion agriculture, 182 million euros in rural development, 270 fisheries policy, 250 internal security, 96 Justice Transition Fund, 717 for the time being EU Solidarity Fund plus an estimated 300 million euros for Banovina and these 9.9 billion from the resistance and recovery mechanism. These 9 billion, and even 6.3, is 12% of Croatia's GDP 2020. Such a high level does not have any other EU Member States, the average of these funds is 3.7%. If we look at this amount per capita, we have twice the EU average, Greece is the only one in front of Croatia. We have 1,500 euros per capita. By the end of 2023, as you know, so this document that is before you refers to 6.3 billion euros of grants and by 2023, we can look for additional funding with 3.6 billion euros, all of them doing it mostly in a three-step, next-generation grants, a multi-annual financial framework, possible loans up to 2023. The recovery plan and resilience need to help us cope with the crisis as soon as possible. Our goal is to use these means to swing Croatia's development, accelerate technological modernisation of the economy, reroute the economy towards those branches that will provide greater concreteness, better use of natural resources. We want to turn the challenges into opportunities, all of our development needs and challenges we have identified in several strategic documents that are all related to the National Recovery and Resistance Plan. And the government's four-year programme and the National Reform Programme and the specific recommendations of the European Commission that we have followed all these years and the measures to participate in ERM II which leads to membership in the Euro Zone and of course, the widest framework is an act adopted by the Croatian Parliament only a few months ago, which is the National Development Strategy. Under economic recovery, we think first of all about focusing investment on those sectors that guarantee rapid economic growth and job conservation in the short and medium term. By strengthening resilience, we understand the reforms that state institutions will make in the long term efficient, rational and tailored needs of the economy. What are the components of the National Recovery and Resistance Programme? We have been working on this document since mid-August decided that it is being conceived on the basis of 5 basic components, economy, public administration, judiciary, state property, education, science and research, labour market, social protection and healthcare, and we have added to this the renovation of buildings as a special initiative because we felt that in the context of recovery from earthquakes and this component is extremely important. 54% of the funding of this plan will be invested in the economy. We will invest in strengthening competitiveness, green economic transition, 6 billion kn, of which 2 billion kn in tourism, 5 billion in energy transition, 1 billion in a biorefinery project in Sisak. This will ensure that the European objective of the share of renewable energy in consumption is met. 5.5 billion in the development of a concrete and sustainable transport system, we want to decarbonise transport and achieve a European target of at least 15% of the share of renewable energy in the transport sector. This includes the largest investment in research, development and production of new mobility vehicles and the accompanying infrastructure of 1.5 billion kuna. Investment in the water economy, we will make available drinking water for about 93% of the population and ensure the treatment of waste water. We will ensure better coverage of the state through broadband infrastructure, all through the recovery plan, 15 billion kuna is directed towards entrepreneurs directly and indirectly in one way or another, almost all funds will end up in the private sector. We will invest 10% of the funds in functional integration of local and regional self-government units, 15% will invest in science and education, increase the share of children who are covered by early preschool education and education from 81 to 96, increase 16% of graduates of tertiary education from natural sciences, mathematics, computing, engineering, production, construction of 1,000 inhabitants aged 20 to 29 from current 18.6 to 21.5. 4% of the funds, or over 2 billion kuna, will be invested in creating conditions for opening up as many jobs as possible to increase the employment rate from 66 to 70% by the end of 2024. We will also invest the funds easier access to adult education to include 30,000 people in the voucher system. 5% and 2.5 billion kuna are scheduled for healthcare, for example, increase the rate of survival from cancer from 46% to 51% and save about 5,000 lives. We will continue functional integration of hospitals, strengthening daily hospitals and reducing the number of cases of acute treatment by 10%. 12% of the funds will go into rebuilding buildings after the earthquake for greater energy efficiency, more housing and public buildings to reduce energy consumption for heating and heat needs. A few words on this broader reform framework for recovery and resilience. So the mechanism has a clear reform framework and guidelines, this plan adopted at EU level is valid for all Member States and all are guided by certain criteria to adapt it to their real needs for development. We've directed 26% of the total funds to meet the digital transition goals, you know that the threshold is 20%. We have targeted 44% of the funds to achieve the objectives of the green transition, so only significantly more than those of the minimum 37%, while fully respecting the principle of non-injurious damage in each investment reform, in line with the fight against climate change. We have also made efforts through the recovery plan to help Croatia restore the destroyed Zagreb and Banovina and other districts since the earthquake. It is important to look at the complementarity of this document and the multiannual financial framework, they are interlinked and not all investments and all investments can be made, nor is it realistic to expect to be implemented through a recovery and resilience instrument. We will discuss with HS documents that will refer to the multiannual financial framework, the government is also committed to doing so. There is even more, double than the ones we are talking about today, and that is why the Parliament will be fully and informed, and will know what are the most important decisions and what areas in which we see investment opportunities in the future. It's a document that although the government adopts it, our deep conviction deserves a public debate. We first presented this document to our social partners, union representatives, employers, and talked to them about this document before the government adopted it. The document is available on a special page to anyone who wants to say something about it or comment on it. Now it's time, the whole April is the time in which we expect different imputes and the document is not closed. It would be much more in terms of respect for the Parliament's worse scenario if we had brought a document that was completely finished and adopted by the government, then the Parliament couldn't suggest anything. Could ex post say we like it or we don't like it. We are now in the dialogue phase, so this debate is happening and we are open to suggestions in this document that is the purpose of this debate. And it's my impression that through a series of debates on the council boards there were also constructive suggestions. What do we really want? We want this document to help Croatia, continue the path we were on before the crisis, about 14 months ago, and I will remind you what Croatia looked like back then. I heard that some people today interpret what it means to love Croatia. So we also love Croatia, so we worked hard in the first term you know that Croatia, which we all love equally, I don't think that someone in Croatia loves more, and someone less, is Croatia with smaller taxes and wages and benefits, to be Croatia with a drop in unemployment and employment growth, to be Croatia with a decrease in public debt and three consecutive years without deficits, though, with a surplus, to be Croatia with greater business attractiveness, with an investment credit rating, with a decline in interest rates, with record tourist seasons and with accelerated use of European funds and never more investment in modernising a series of aspects of our country. And that's why I'm looking forward to having us ride on the Pelješki Bridge at the end of our second term, watching as the LNG terminal brings Croatia revenue, watching the growth of agricultural production, watching the increase in quality of life, watching the faster Internet throughout Croatia, and I hope to enable demographic revitalisation That's why we need this plan, and hopefully a broad social consensus. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44716	Thank you. We have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure, then we have replicas. Here you go, colleague Selak Raspadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44717	Art. 238, ladies and gentlemen of HS, there was a miracle in Medjugorje that Our Lady appeared, and the HS presented a plan. I don't play football, and I'm not going to attack a fellow Savic to get the plan out of him. Show in practice that you really think you want our proposals, all the preconditions are there, it's never too late. Now send us a plan that's here to at least circle the Parliament to examine it, otherwise all you're saying is mere demagogy. Send him.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44718	Thank you very much. Comrade Selak Raspadic, you have violated the Rules of Procedure now. So, 35 people reported to the MPs and the replicator, you have now reached them all who correctly responded with a breach of the Rules of Procedure that was not a violation of the Rules of Procedure but a replica and I am giving you a warning. Here's your colleague, Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44719	The Honorable Prime Minister of Croatia. Art. 238, so from what we've seen today, this programme that should be the most important programme for the development of the Croatian economy, we can make it aware that these are my songs and my dreams for the reasons that it's already visible from the Croatian government's investment that they were investments in infrastructure programmes, and not in businesses and not in innovation, so this will lead us to ruin, and this is not a good programme, and therefore, all the other European countries have already debated for months, And we get it 14 days ago [[/Intruder: Thank you, thank you, beautiful colleague Troscott.]] Poland, Poland, Poland... [[A little bit, just a little bit.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44720	A fellow Troscott, please. Comrade Troscott, please sit down. So, you've severely injured the Rules of Procedure, you've given a pure replica, and now I see a colleague of Grumoja and his colleague Bulj reporting. Well, I'm now calling on all the MPs who gave the replicas to give the same injuries to the Rules of Procedure so they can speak beyond the procedure because that's incorrect what you're doing. So we have 35 replicas and you now to outrun those who have given honest replicas go with the injuries of the Rules of Procedure not even trying to explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure but simply replicate. It's not fair, it's simple. Here's a warning. Comrade Grumo, here you go, breach of the Rules of Procedure too.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44721	Your Honor, the Prime Minister has injured an officer. 238, and you've injured a series of articles of the Rules of Procedure. You're not here to judge what's fair and what's unfair. It's unfair that I can't be in the assembly and that people here who do their job fairly can't know when anyone answered. And as for the breach of the Prime Minister's Rules of Procedure, so you're talking about that you don't think anyone likes Croatia more or less. So your representative Grozdana Peric is the one who criticises this plan Calls [[Agreement: Thank you, colleague Grumoja]] "people of suspicious patriotism". [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44722	Thank you very much. And you get a warning because this wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure either, but it was also a replica. My colleagues and colleagues, I am asking you now, to be able to conduct a normal debate on this important document, I am asking you not to abuse the Rules of Procedure because what is happening now can disrupt the quality of the debate and bring MPs who are doing their job correctly in a worse position than those who deliberately abuse the Rules of Procedure. I'm asking you here to be solidarity now and stick to what the rules of the game are. Here's my colleague Bulj and I see colleague Rasdic again, I don't know for what reason. I'll interrupt the session for a while, because we can't work like this. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44723	Thank you very much. He's been injured. In 238, both by you and by the prime minister because you have to listen to the MPs if there is an infringement institute of the Rules of Procedure and after that you can make a decision whether it is a violation of the Rules of Procedure or not. I would only say here that Prime Minister Plenkovic hurt this Rules of Procedure solely because of what he said there would be digitisation, a better signal and better teleopers in Croatia. The most expensive teleoperate services are paid by Croatian citizens in the EU, and the highest profits are made by teleoperators because the government also favours foreign teleopers to the harm of the Croatian people.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44724	Comrade Bully, fellow Bully, thank you very much. You're getting a warning. I repeat again, this is all you do on purpose, you violate the Rules of Procedure. You weren't trying to explain what it was, you were replicating it. You went into debate with the Prime Minister's position, so it's a clear violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44725	You insult... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44726	I insult you for defending the rules of the Rules of Procedure, my people, so give me some. Here you go, colleague Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44727	Art. 238. Comrade Jandrokovic, you are not my psyche...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44728	What from, what from, what from art. 238?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44729	Disdaining parliamentary deputies. You are not my psychiatrist, nor are you here to interpret my intentions. You can probably strike me with a warning, and that's all you have in your mechanisms, and I know it shocks you that we can talk too. And the highlight of disdaining parliamentary deputies is that they are given a plan in the assembly as if it were an Medjugorje Lady instead of having the right to read it. Send us a plan to see him if he's here.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44730	Comrade Selak Rasudiæ, you are given a second warning. And I'm not disdainful of the MPs, but you're demeaning them with your requests for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, which is beyond the procedure, you know very well. A colleague, Marko Pavić, injured the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44731	Thank you very much, Mr. President-in-Office. I didn't mean to take your call, but I really do. Art. In 238, he was injured, insulting his colleague, his colleague Grozdana Peric, she did not say that. I'd like you to stop this outwitting, share three warnings with your colleagues, so let's discuss the content so we can give the replicas. This is a manipulation of the opposition.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44732	My colleague Pavic, I said so, so I'm giving you a warning, you shouldn't have repeated what I said. Here you go, pal Peric. You've been called.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44733	Art. 238, since my colleague called me, although I will confirm a thousand times what I think, but the way my colleague from the board carried it out is not so said. We must primarily say that all this is really just proof that when we say that we love this country Then it's something you should... [[Agreement: Thank you, beautiful colleague Peric]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44734	And this was also a replica, so you get a warning. I would now ask the other MPs to stop the replicas, with the injuries of the Rules of Procedure. I've been giving a few warnings already, and I can see that it's going the wrong way because you're using the Replicator's breach. Now they come to the line of replicas and you could all pick up and a lot of MPs, here's another 20 applications from other rooms, so we have 55 replicas. And I think it's fair to leave it to everyone who's reported to argue through the replicas. Comrade coat of arms Bujevic, you may give up, please. Can you give up on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? ... And then the mistake is some, no, nothing. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] Comrade Puljak, may I ask?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44735	I don't... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44736	Well, then, I can't take that away from you, I can only ask you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44737	So this way I'm not replicating the Prime Minister now, but I'm really calling for a breach of the Rules of Procedure and that's 238. A colleague of Grodana Peric says that I have been false. I didn't tell the truth, it'll show the tone I asked for, here today we'll look at exactly what you said on the Finance Committee, so to those who criticized this plan, so you dare say we should love our country more. So... There you go. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44738	Comrade Puljak, you are also aware that you have violated the Rules of Procedure and that you have thus earned a warning. I ask you now, given the great interest of MPs and advocates to stick to the rules of the game, 55 replicas means 110 minutes. Prime Minister, please come to the pay phone and we'll start with the replicas. The first one is a colleague of Zekanovic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44739	Dear Croatian Prime Minister, we are talking about the National Recovery and Resistance Plan. The prerequisite for recovery is to end the pandemic and you have repeatedly pointed to the need for the population in Croatia to be vaccinated. However, we can see that the vaccine is not present or is extremely modest. According to polls, as many as 70% of people in Croatia would be vaccinated and I would like to hear your comment, first to find out about the EU’s failure to obtain the vaccine, and on the other hand, your concrete comment on what it is doing, for example. your colleague Sebastian Kurz in Austria or I don't know Hungary, Slovakia, which is supplying the vaccine independently of the EU and why wouldn't Croatia do so if you are right to be vaccinated.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44740	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44741	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I agree that vaccination is crucial in order to end this health crisis and the greatest challenge in the last 100 years. You know that many times we have said that Croatia has ordered 8.7 million doses of different vaccines so far, from different pharmaceutical companies Pfiser, AstraZeneca, Moderna, Johnson&Johnson, CureVac, Novavax, so all of what we could have ordered in quantities that we thought were sufficient and that would be on top of what is expected of the cleavage. You, as you know, the EU couldn't know, I don't want to exculpate anyone in terms of delivery dynamics contracts should have been more precise there is no dilemma and we all agree, but no one could have known about this much of the delivery problems and even with certain reputation problems of certain vaccines. These are the circumstances that a few years ago months didn't know. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44742	Here you go, pal Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44743	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns Club, I request a break to further consult on the national plan. So here I must point out that I am sorry that I didn't hear today, even today, the respected Prime Minister of the Government from you, the attitude that I, as a Croatian sovereign, would like to hear, is that of the sovereign position and you have not today, and here you have managed it out of your mouth to express a criticism of the EU. I don't see why because I think that you would actually lose nothing but actually get sympathy in the Croatian public space. Why didn't you say today the EU failed, and it failed. The EU, regardless of what we see as the personification of all the best, is obviously not, and in this situation, the crisis has proved extremely hollow in this crown, extremely bad. Israel, the United States, a number of Latin American states, many countries in the Far East are 10 times better than Croatia, compared to the EU in this regard. I would also like you as my Prime Minister, but of course the president of your country, your colleague Milanovic, that you have stood up so sovereignly there that you have said, for all those who wish to be vaccinated, we will have people next month if we need both Russian vaccine and Israeli and Hungarian, whatever, but the vaccine will be there. Unfortunately, there is no vaccine, it is a failure above all the EU, but here you are, too, I thought you'd be a little critical of the EU, because you have why. So, honourable Prime Minister, all that comes from the EU is not good and whatever you want to have good relations with your colleagues in the EU, be first and foremost the president of the Croatian Government, or the man who leads the Croatian people.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44744	The flat is approved, but in accordance with Article 293b. We'll get back to work right away, and we'll go with the next replica. Comrade Petyr, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44745	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. President of the Croatian Government, €6.3 billion of grants under this resistance and recovery mechanism should be monitored together with a multi-annual financial framework which accounts for a total of €24.5 billion. That money will not fall like a flaw from the sky because investments will only be supported if they are monitored by reforms. I am glad that you took a sovereign position when you negotiated with the European Commission because other than those criteria that the European Commission has conditioned that they must be an integral part of this programme I see here and a lot of projects that are extremely important for Croatia but also for the recovery of the entire Croatian Biorefinery economy in Sisak, the modernisation of Petrochemy in Kutina, the reconstruction of the collapsed buildings in the earthquake, the reconstruction of the Kutina-Novska railway, are just some of the projects I found in this plan What I'm curious about is whether you were looking for Croatian components [[Intruder: Thank you.]] so Croatian companies can engage in the realisation of these projects. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44746	Please, colleagues and colleagues, let's stick to the minutes. There's a lot of us here to work normally. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44747	Thank you, well-respected counsel Petyr. It is true, in the talks that lasted practically all last spring, we have been really fighting for the means to give, for the funds that we will use precisely in those sectors of the economy that are particularly important to us. It's a good thing you mentioned Sisak, I think this is an opportunity for one investment that will allow the transformation of the refinery to Sisak, secure jobs and ensure the competitiveness of production. As for the other topics that you mentioned in your presentation, I believe that a combination of funds that we will use through the National Programme for Recovery and Resistance and through the entire multiannual financial framework, and as you know there will be particularly significant funds related to Croatian agriculture, that is to trace the strategy and development of Croatian agriculture, investing precisely in the main objective of the Government programme, which is to increase agricultural production by 30%. And on that trail, I expect support. and you here at the Croatian Parliament. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44748	Comrade Bedekovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44749	Thank you very much. Dear Prime Minister, I will refer to that part of your introductory presentation in which you have spoken about mutual complementarity between the National Recovery and Resistance Plan and the Multiannual Financial Framework, namely the fact that they are truly complemented, which is why they need to be seen as a whole, and as an example, I will specify the component of Education, Science and Research as one of the six components for which 7.5 billion kuna is envisaged, i.e. 15% of total investments in all 6 components and within that component is an emphasis placed precisely on structural reforms in the field of education and, among other things, construction, construction, reconstruction and equipment of primary and secondary schools, and I will remind you that so far from the EU funds, we have not been able to do so, and just this kind of planning is an excellent example of good planning and good combination of good combination of good planning and good combination of good work. this Plan and the Multiannual Financial Framework. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44750	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44751	Thank you, well-respected representative Bedekovic. It's true. We want to compensate through the National Recovery and Resistance Plan one gap, which we have all seen for the past seven years, existed when the existing Multi-annual Financial Framework was planned, then was not included in time and the priority of building education infrastructure. I believe that with this very quality planning, I'm sure today we've provided more information from the Minister of Science and Education than enough resources to go through the period of '21-'26. in Croatia we are going to rebuild schools. In the restoration of primary schools, the construction of primary schools, in the construction of secondary schools, in construction, as we are now doing, kindergartens, for example, here, the other day we witnessed the opening of kindergartens in Maria Bistrica, which is also co-financed by EU funds, and we will also enable single-minded teaching and better quality education of new generations.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44752	Thank you. Comrade Reiner, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44753	Dear President of HS, Mr. Prime Minister. Since the opposition obviously has nothing concrete to suggest, and unfortunately it seems to me, nor to contribute to this document, but since yesterday, and today we are listening, and we are likely to listen later, two mantras. One is that we haven't received an extension document that hasn't even been completed yet, but they don't care, but only a summary, therefore, do you, once again, whether it's a government document that the government could have brought by itself, but you brought it here and you want to get an input from us, although you don't need it and how many EU countries have done it to date, and the other is a false claim that this money won't be used for the economy, especially not for the sake of the private sector, but rather, It'll all go to some kind of clerk. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Well, you said it, but please do it again. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44754	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44755	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. As far as these imposed mantras are concerned that the investments that are private or public sector are, there is no division in the legislation itself, so that's no. 1, it is imposed by those who think it could be used, the criteria that are important, I will mention them once again, 37%, 20% digital, green transition and the principle of non-injuriousness in the context of everything that is related to climate change. In the end, virtually all these funds will end in one way or another, indirect investment in the private sector, as performers or service providers. As far as this other topic is concerned, I said, the government's adoption plan, it's there, it's still being consulted, it's being consulted with the commission, a parliamentary debate on this document that's not small, which has 80 pages, will serve us as a guide to its completion, and it's I repeat once again, not the act of the Parliament, but the act of the Government. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44756	Comrade Hajdukovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44757	Dear Mr. Plenkovic, it's a good thing we're going to discuss this in HS, I said that before, but when I said hello, I didn't know we were going to discuss the summary. About the draft summary even. We're setting up a precedent and it's a serious precedent because democracy is a procedure, as you know, Prime Minister, and I never expected to discuss the summary here. What's next? Shall we discuss legal proposals? I know this isn't a complete document, but as we're discussing the draft summary, so we could talk about the draft of the whole document. Prime Minister, if Mr Barnier has managed to hold transparent negotiations on Brexit, which is a kind of oxymoron, if some countries have reached for a low-down approach, and not like us, up and down, why are you coming here at 5 to 12 and looking for constructive suggestions. The only thing worse than non-transparentity is hypocritical transparency, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44758	Thank you very much, Mr. Hajdukovic. You've spent your minute replicas to repeat everything that's been said and what's already been answered, but if you want me to convince you again, I'll tell you one more time. So the government, theoretically, did not need to bring this document into HS because it is an act of government. According to legislation, the principle deadline for the completion of all these national recovery and resilience plans is the end of April. We prepared this document in quality, structured, explained, explained the reforms, the investment connection, the components, all the resolutions are working on it, held consultations with the social partners, put the document on the website 15 days ago, held all the board meetings, and now you have a plenary debate. Believe me, if you'd received a document of 80 or 800 pages, it would have been the same debate. You're wasting your time instead of focusing on at least one idea of what to add. That would be a real reform.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44759	Thank you very much. Comrade Ahmetovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44760	Thank you very much, Mr. Prime Minister. The National Recovery and Resistance Plan should protect Croatia and recover it from the pandemic and earthquake. Croatia will recover from both, but has already recovered from the biggest earthquake, under quotes of the Homeland War. We don't doubt that. But will she recover from the greatest threat that actually suppresses her, which is corruption. On page 44 of this summary of the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, there is only one sentence on corruption, but generally enough that I simply do not trust it. Well, here I have a concrete and constructive proposal. Let's make a maximum step, take the opportunity, introduce the full transparency of spending public money and all the bodies of the state administration, and all the bodies of the regional and local administrations and all the public enterprises to the last June. Discussing corruption is a basic prerequisite for the implementation of this plan, withdrawing and exploiting funds. Can you guarantee that?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44761	Thank you very much. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44762	Thank you very much, MP Ahmetovic. As for judicial reform, public administration reform, state property, you have a whole sub-component, you have these reforms, you have these investments. Keep in mind that in the judiciary sector and in the corruption management sector we will also use other sources, and national sources and later projects that will be financed through VFO. As for the fight against corruption, it is only part of the National Recovery Plan and Resistance for understandable reasons because it should be a task and without having an earthquake and without having happened pandemic, so it should be a permanent and permanent task of all Croatian institutions and therefore should be strengthened and we, for example, should be stronger compared to yours, the time of your governments, here is Mr Doncic behind you, increased the DORH budget for example by 100%, we created all the conditions for them to be stronger and to work better, they have as far as we are concerned and full support and Perhaps in your jargon it would be good to say, freed hands. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44763	Thank you very much. My colleague, Heidash Doncic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44764	You have a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44765	Injury of the Rules of Procedure? I didn't see it. Here you are, a breach of the Rules of Procedure. ... Just turn it off, Comrade Highdash. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] [[Oh, I'm sorry.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44766	Thank you very much. The Rules of Procedure, Art. 238, I ask you nicely, Prime Minister, not to express yourselves with metaphors, which would mean free hands in our jargon. And I've asked a very constructive and concrete proposal, you haven't answered my question, it would have been better if you'd answered my question, given that during your government, perceptions of corruption have increased by several places, or Croatia has fallen in this regard, so much about governments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44767	My colleague Ahmetovic, in the Rules of Procedure, does not say that the prime minister should not use metaphors, as no other representative, it is quite the usual form, so what you have now requested as a violation of the Rules of Procedure is really a little bizarre. Here you go, colleague Hajdash Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44768	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, you are absolutely right because thanks to you and only you, Croatia has received 6.3 billion euros, so we have received the most per capita of all of us and Greece, so only thanks to you because, through your management in the last 6 years, Croatia has unfortunately become what was Kosovo in the former Yugoslavia, so actually one of the most underdeveloped EU countries. And the beginning of your presentation has deeply disappointed me, reminds me of some unequal time, so where Pharaoh, king or emperor stands in three-layer societies, behind his priests and then there's a people here, so we're calling a peddler who underestimates and shows some document, so you don't even need to show it, that's better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44769	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44770	Thank you very much, Counselor Highash Doncic. You are known as one great prophet here otherwise, politically, your forecasts of anti-cipication, analytical capabilities are well known and recognized, everyone calls you to advise them on how many mandates they will receive in the elections, there is no such polyester in the United States or perhaps in the societies you refer to if they happen to have democracy as a system. But, joke aside, you have a document that's there to help us develop. Mr Doncic, unlike you, I participated in the negotiations in both the VFO and the National Recovery Programme and the Eu instrument next generation and we fought for big funds in Croatia, we fought because I think we need it. If we didn't need, say, a degree of development like Luxembourg, we'd say thank you. I think we need them. It will be useful for both you and Croatian citizens. You might be pleased.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44771	Thank you. Comrade Brumnic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44772	Dear Mr. Plenkovic, the last time we talked about the National Strategy for the Development of the Republic of Croatia, you lived in Happyland. It was all great, there was nothing to fix, so I'm asking you today, where do you live today? After you have asked for practically the most money in the EU, it turns out that we can see you as the king of beggars and that's what's sad, it's sad that you're not showing this country that you're the leader, you're not showing the fact that it's worth the work, that it's worth learning, that it's worth the pawning, that it's worth progressing through your abilities. Instead of dispensing this plan to show that those who create added value and those who work, you show that those who do not work and write some programs are important. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44773	Thank you very much. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44774	Mr. Brumnic, you were terribly creative and in general a major contribution to the entire opposition to the National Development Strategy, how many 5000 amendments were there, right? We didn't know how to analyze them, let alone accept them or refuse them. So, as for your comment on what kind of atmosphere we live in and what we do. So I can say that I like Croatia where in a crisis like this everyone got pensions and salaries. That I like Croatia, which has shown resistance in the greatest health threat we have, that no one has lost the masks, that no one has lost health care, that no one has lost the cure despite the efforts to talk about it and that through this plan and the distribution of funds, some that are just among those who are excellent, will get additional resources and be even more globally competitive. And you, in the interest of truth, read and have not read these 80 pages.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44775	Thank you very much. Comrade Bartulica, here you go. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, here you go, colleague Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44776	The Honorable President of the Parliament. He's been injured. In 238, and something that you keep saying is that this House doesn't say in the Rules of Procedure, which is that you shouldn't lie. What this government has done, it has actually made European money, not the money that it has given up, so when the prime minister here says what he has given, then it is necessary to say where he gave it and how he gave it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44777	My colleague Brumnic, you received a warning because you replicated, not seeking a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Let's move on, fellow Bartulica, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44778	Thank you. Your Honor, Prime Minister. You often highlight stability as an important achievement of your government, but it means actually stagnation in our case. This shows the results last year where our GDP fell more than 2% more than the EU average, with mild measures in the crown crisis. As for this summary, I would refer to health care. So I haven't seen any structural reform, and we know that the model isn't stable. It's leaking all over the place. I would suggest one concrete measure for this monopoly position of HZZO to be derivated. So, all the users of us who finance the system don't have a choice, we don't have freedom of choice, but the law goes to HZZO by force, and that's one of the main causes of not rational spending these funds, if I'm not mistaken for more than 25 billion kunas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44779	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44780	Thank you, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, Here's your replica in fact and it doesn't have much to do with this debate, but just for the sake of public interest I'll repeat. Of course, the entire opposition did not have 5,000 amendments, it had one single little amendment to the National Development Strategy and it tells you about how much your engagement after the strategic documents had their full form or had a summary, drinking, clearly written form for anyone who wanted any suggestion, but this is that trend which is more than clear and more obvious, so it was some happy region or was he trying to portrait that nothing was worth anything in Croatia because it was essentially the main topic of all exposure. As far as health care is concerned, here at 13.00 today will be the Minister of Health and Minister of Finance at a meeting with the majors and will find a hodogram and solutions that will be satisfied with everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44781	Thank you very much. My colleagues, Juričev Martinchev, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44782	Thank you very much. The President-in-Office of your presentation, you said and we see this also in the recovery plan to anticipate investments in the improvement of the water economy, more specifically in improving and building a wastewater treatment system. As I come from an area where tourism is a fundamental economic activity, I am pleased to see that investment in sustainable, innovative tourism is foreseen. However, the clean sea is one of the preconditions for tourism development, and therefore the priority would put an emphasis on these wastewater treatment projects, and we see that, with this recovery plan, we are investing as much as 54% in the economy, and most of all, in the construction of these systems. Well then, with impatience, all of us who have prepared projects such as the agglomeration of Vodice-Srima-Tribunj, we expect the funds to be also invested in the construction and protection of the sea.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44783	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44784	Thank you very much, Mr. Juričev Martinchev. True, we of course made sure that the National Recovery and Resistance Programme also took into account the topic of the water economy, of course and waste management. What we expect to be the results of the implementation of this programme on the trail of a number of agglomerations already being financed from existing funds is the improvement of the quality of public water services, is the reduction of losses in public water supply systems, the construction of re-use infrastructure, separate collection, recycling of waste to contribute to the circular economy and, of course, environmental recovery of previously polluted waste. Since we are a tourist country and have allocated special means for tourism here as one of the branches of the Croatian economy, we will also take care of the protection of the sea because there is no quality tourism without clean sea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44785	Comrade Pavić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44786	Thank you very much. Dear Prime Minister, President of the Parliament. Well, the opposition feels like it's regrettable that we've gotten so much money out. When we remember when they were in power of the SDP government when they were planning the Euro Funds in the Parliament, there was no debate. Now we have a debate and you have announced a debate on the multiannual financial framework, a total of 24.5 billion euros. When we remember, some say that the following is, that we got because we're so poor, precisely the eu funds helped us develop and cross that 60% of the EU average and that's why we should have received, if I remember correctly in the negotiations minus 1.8 billion euros, so we should have less than 1.8 billion euros. And just in the government's efforts to explain that this is our first financial situation we've gotten more. And my question to you is, what will Croatia look like after both the multiannual financial framework and the NPO are implemented?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44787	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44788	Thank you very much, Mr. Pavić. I don't know if they're sorry, maybe they're acting a little bit sorry, they're not sorry, I'm sure Croatia has this much resources at its disposal, and that's why I said a few weeks ago that it's a generational opportunity that if we can create as wide a political, social and development consensus as possible. That's why it's important that we talk about it, and that's why we're here today, that we don't want to do it, unlike what Mr. Hajdukovic thinks, we brought a document like April 1st, and we want it if it's possible and we can improve it and work it out with concrete suggestions that will be. And we are not asking in the EU, Mr Brumnic, but we are pushing for Croatia to catch a step with those countries that are much longer in the Union than we are and to be more efficient and faster than we were at a time when the SDP was in power, and that is evident. from a plane or a drone or a bird crab. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44789	Thank you very much. Comrade Boric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44790	Thank you very much. Dear President of the Croatian Government, we heard today attacks from the side of the opposition that 80 pages are not enough for them to discuss the NGOs and that they will create an obvious problem about whether it is enough or not. And we heard them after the election, they found that we had two earthquakes, that we lived in a difficult year and a pandemic, etc., and that it was best to be in the shade and criticise the government because that's the only thing politics needs to do especially at the Most Club. And now I'm interested in this other part that they also dispute. And that's whether we're helping the economy or not? Is it direct or indirect help since they dispute it. Today we also heard on committees, that we should probably be paying all the economics certain funds without any criteria and in any way without any activity. Is the infrastructure to be built directly or indirectly? Are we going to allow every businessman as we have yet to stand behind them to accomplish what we need through this programme, which is stability? and normal business. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44791	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44792	Thank you very much, Mr. Boric. We stood strong behind the Croatian economy, behind Croatian workers, behind Croatian employers. You saw that I said on Monday that we have a larger number of insurance companies on 31.3.2021 than on 31.3.2020. Our weatherman, the prophet and chief polyester and his team spoke last year about 400,000 new unemployed in Croatia, spoke of the 68-term reboot coalition, so they missed everything. Unfortunately, that's the way it is, but people see it well. As for money for the economy, I repeat once again practically all these funds will end up in the economy that is not so-called. The helicopter money, they know it well in the economy. We will organise sub-components in a way that will benefit the Croatian economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44793	Comrade Martincevic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44794	Dear Prime Minister, here's when we talk about recovery programs, I must express great satisfaction that the first projects to be implemented include a major project of the central operational bloc in Varazdin. And it is a message that how important it is to prepare projects and how important it is to invest and finance documentation, even when it is a great financial burden for modest county budgets. The question is, we in northern Croatia with proverbial land with invaluable even vegetable production recognize the fact that in this programme, modestly, yet explicitly mentions a deep and long-term reform, which is a commission. There's no market agriculture, as we know. The commission can only be realised by the state where every kuna invested is an investment in the most untapped Croatian resource, which is food production. My question is whether you plan to implement the reform from these available EU funds I.e. the commission. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44795	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44796	Thank you, well-respected representative Martincevic. I am pleased that you have read the document in detail, that you know that there is a big investment planned here in the Varazdin hospital and that this investment will make a significant contribution to strengthening health care and providing health services in Varazdin County and all those who are gravitating towards the Varazdin hospital. This is just one example of how the North Project in the Government Programme has its contents and how it is as important to us as it was in our first term, and in the second one will be the project Slavonia or in this mandate which will be Dalmatia Zagora, Lika, Gorski Kotar and Banovina with a special emphasis on the revitalisation of Banovina. As for the commission, yes, we recognize that this is important for Croatia, that it is important for Croatian agriculture, we will deal with it through both NPOO and regular reforms that will take place Ministry of Agriculture. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44797	Comrade Vucilović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44798	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Croatian Prime Minister, the European Commission has recommended that members work to encourage investment in the sustainable production of food products. According to relevant, valid, recently published data, the Croatian food industry has a productivity of 51% of the European average. We know that certain sectors have not been able to use rural development funds and some other EU funds so far. I'm interested in whether this possibility for our food sector is foreseen in this document, I don't find it, but you can always tell me it's in the whole document, but let me have no insight into it, so here's the question.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44799	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44800	Thank you very much. As far as agriculture is concerned, of course it is involved, the food industry is included in general. And what is particularly important is that we, on top of this document, have provided significant resources, almost EUR 5 billion to invest in Croatian agriculture, which we will invest in rural development, which we will invest in a fisheries policy that has the task of making it possible to transfer part of the costs that would otherwise be exclusively on the Croatian budget to the common European budget and thus facilitate certain payments that are on the agenda of the Croatian budget, and in this way to enable the development of agriculture fully with the strategy for the development of Croatian agriculture which will lead to greater competitiveness and greater agricultural production than at least 30%.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44801	Thank you. Comrade Nadj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44802	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Croatian Prime Minister, they said this document is not a first-rate joke. I believe it is not, but as it is possible, under the investment of further improving the efficiency of the public administration, an e-government expert exam was given when the Minister of Administration adopted the State Examining Regulation and the Minister of Justice and Administration also adopted amendments to that Regulation which entered into force on 1 April 2021 and 1 April 2022, so on 1 April. The application for a national expert examination allows for the registration, organisation, conduct of studies by electronic means, as well as the development of test materials, and the issue and delivery of documents. The application is managed by the ministry, and the processing is conducted by FINA. So if everything exists, why is it in this document?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44803	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44804	Thank you very much, Mr. Nadj. The NPO is also an opportunity to reform the state administration, the state expert exams are one of the key filters for the verification of knowledge, skills and quality of those that are part of the state administration system. We believe that this system needs and must be further improved so that the entire state administration and the public sector in general become even more quality and that people who provide services to Croatian citizens through the public sector and through the state administration would be more competent and better educated, and that all those who delegate them to certain powers in the management structure know that they have these competences and that these competences have been verified. On the other hand, it is the intention of the Minister of Justice and the administration to further strengthen the process through investment through the NPO. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44805	Comrade Ban Vlahek, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44806	Dear Prime Minister, your exhaustive exposure...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44807	Just pick up the mic, it's a microphone, for the record.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44808	Dear Prime Minister, your comprehensive exposure and presentation of optimism have prompted me to suggest a correction to the injustice of the EU's funds so far. It is evident from the consolidated general state budget that Međimurje County, compared to other units of regional self-government, is third in the amount of money being drawn from the EU, while at the same time it is at the beginning of the total investment of money from European funds on the territory of Međimurje County. This means that the investment and projects initiated and implemented by the state and the users of the state budget, and co-financed by European money so far have not been the priority of this government. My question is, can we expect Međimurje through the National Recovery and Resistance Plan to be at least proportionally represented in determining investment priorities compared to other Croatian counties? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44809	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44810	Thank you very much, esteemed Ban Vlahek. The two of us meet regularly on different visits that members of the government and I personally organise in Međimurje County. I think you know for yourself how well we know what the key and development projects of the Međimurje County are, whether it's about the economy, whether it's about education, transport infrastructure, investment in education infrastructure. You know how much has been made in the final and concrete decisions so far, and even at the meeting of the Government of the Republic of Croatia held in Čakovec, how much we are in constant communication with the mayor, with the mayors, with the mayors of the municipalities, and also with you as parliamentary representatives who suggest what we do. What we want is for the withdrawal of European funds, whether through ESI funds or through NPO, to be effective and to achieve strong synergy through the North project, and I am sure you will make a valuable contribution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44811	Thank you. Comrade Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44812	Thank you very much. The Honorable Prime Minister, with regard to health care. Are they called to all health institutions in the Republic of Croatia, so in all local and regional units of self-government to report with their ideas or with their projects? How many came back? And by what criteria did you choose projects, specifically related to equipment or building buildings and supplying equipment? Why are these projects that we see in these silly documents concentrated several times in several KBCs and KBs, and of the general hospitals only Varazdin? So, in III. You have other counties and Međimurje and Krapina-Zagorska, why did you go to only one general hospital, is that perhaps a political criterion or what the joke is? And it would also express dissatisfaction that around such a large and significant resort as health care, which is a supersede issue, we only have 6 pages instead of really accepting our help and improving this health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44813	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44814	Thank you very much, esteemed representative Maric. Here is the Minister of Health, I believe that he could elaborate more on why the health priorities were chosen today. You know for yourself that in our health system, not only for the service of these regular costs which are the main subject, that there are also additional investments, that projects by individual health institutions have been selected and by the criteria that you could already hear from also one representative from III. the election units of Ms. Martincevic, which is the quality preparation of the projects, therefore the element was neither excluded as those used for selection. But what is particularly important, this is just part of the investments that are in this health component, a large part of the investment will go through, for example, a multi-annual financial framework. Here, for example. KBC Osijek is planned through VFO as one example to see how much investment in other parts of the health system will be... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44815	Thank you. My fellow Witness, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44816	Dear Prime Minister, the National Recovery Plan also mentions the recovery from the earthquake, and I am saying this because it has been more than a year since the devastating earthquake that hit the city center, the city's district of Subslade, the parts of Sesveda and Gornja Dubrava. Unfortunately, nothing has begun to be renewed except what the citizens themselves are restoring. Many of our fellow citizens in a difficult financial position had to raise loans, raise loans with unfavourable interest in order to start rebuilding on their own. Some people can’t do that because their homes died in an earthquake, and they already had loans for those houses. I really hope that either through a national recovery plan or in any other way, that these people will finally be helped. They're having a hard time and they need the help of the state right now. You said you expected suggestions from us. A key suggestion, since recovery from the earthquake has not yet begun, would be that my key suggestion would be that you have to work faster.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44817	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44818	Thank you very much, Your Honor. We were about a little bit smaller than it seems to me, just over 3 years ago, having had one big conference when it was the anniversary of the earthquake in Zagreb at the Faculty of Civil Engineering, then we presented very clearly to the Croatian public everything that was done with regard to emergency measures, as regards the funds that were allocated, with regard to the funds that were provided. You also know that the damages in Zagreb are about 85 billion kn, the funds that we have from the European Solidarity Fund, from the national budget, from the European Investment Bank, from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the Council of Europe's development banks are further strengthened through the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, because no other country has what we have as a special initiative, as a particular sixth component, is not to provide the funds and enable the effective recovery and restoration of Zagreb and other parts of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44819	Thank you. Comrade Stromar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44820	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, Mr. Prime Minister. The initiative, in the end, is on the back pages, rebuilding buildings, six billion kunas. I can tell you that multiple energy efficiency buildings have a value of more than a billion kunas now and if a competition were to be made now, I could immediately implement it. The same is true of family homes where we have the same value greater than 1 billion kunas where houses are certified and we have a coster, we know in previous competitions what the situation is. Mostly, domestic materials are used, more than 90% and here, it is my recommendation that as soon as possible they go into these competitions and that the builders who really know how to do this work have knowledge, have real quality professions and people and that here we use these resources as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44821	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44822	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. Stromar. You also have great experience as a minister who was in the past government in charge of construction and all the activities that have been focused on the development of the Law on the Reconstruction of Zagreb, later the law that we have extended to Banovina and you know very well what projects are prepared, how many buildings are prepared for multiple energy efficiency buildings, how many family houses are ready for these projects, I am convinced that Minister Horvat in the process of implementing the National Recovery Plan and Resistance will take care of all the valuable knowledge that you have and that through direct consultations, you will help the Government as well as our parliamentary majority representative, that these funds that are truly issued, envisaged in this national plan for which we have received full understanding and support from the European Commission, are used quickly and efficiently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44823	Thank you. Comrade Simičević, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44824	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear President of the Croatian government, respected ministers and ministers. This is an extraordinary document for the future of Croatia and for those who love it and for those who do not love it. And I want to thank everyone who actively participated in making this document. The document can actually read everything and whoever wants to find a way, whoever won't, finds an objection. What's the subject of my interest is the system of education and education. With this plan, we will create material assumptions for work in one shift or all day at school, open up many opportunities for children who have not yet had one. What we should continue to invest continuously in people, we have deficit personnel at school. And we have to do everything we can to solve it with this plan. [[The incursion president: Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44825	Thank you very much. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44826	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. Simičević. Given that your background is just education, I understand the interest, sure that you will be satisfied with what the Ministry of Science and Education has prepared first and foremost, I think that this component three provides for the process of reform as well as all those investments that are intended to make structural reform of the system of education, to modernise higher education, and to make this an opportunity and indeed great resources and to build all preschools, primary schools, secondary schools, dormitories and what is particularly important in time IV. The industrial revolution, which is a digital transformation of higher education. With these objectives, with the rise of research capacities, I think we'll give new generations quality education.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44827	Thank you. Comrade Troscott, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44828	Dear Croatian Prime Minister, reading this document, I would like to look back at section C4 of point 1, that is to improve employment measures. Reading data from older HZZO years, I found data that somewhere around 30 to 40% of the hospital is unwarranted, we're talking about official HZZO data. Here is a concrete proposal, given that unwarranted sick leave is also the cost of the state but, above all, for entrepreneurs or the private sector. Do you think about investing in diagnostics, for example at local level, in order to reduce so-called illness, reducing the disease means labour force on the market, labour market means promoting the economy, promoting the economy of a aggregate offer, and with this we are going to GDP growth. So, what do you say about that as a proposal, that didn't work out for us in your strategy?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44829	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44830	Thank you very much. With regard to this suggestion relating to the component of the labour market and social protection, as far as sickness is concerned, you're alluding to the subject of false illnesses and potentially fictitious illnesses, a topic where abuses of different situations so that people are not in their jobs. I think that we must have strong control mechanisms in the system itself, and, of course, in the health system to avoid such situations. When it comes to diagnostics, the whole aspect of the investment in healthcare that one other component is accompanied by an appropriate legal framework relating to this component C, I think it can help us solve this problem that really exists and it's good that you mentioned it. He may not be explicitly listed here, but he is certainly one of the topics that must be on the agenda and the health ministers and the labour minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44831	Comrade Tomasevic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44832	Thank you. Well, the fact is that the National Reform Plan and the National Recovery Plan brings forward the Government, but you can hardly implement these reforms without the Parliament and because of changes to the legislation and budget, so I think it would be better to draw a concrete draft and then to comment on this concrete draft based on these comments that you have changed it rather than to receive a summary. This way when they show your colleagues two samples on the side, they say here we have it there, it looks a little bit like a wheel of luck. But let's go to some of the content, get on with the current class. In these 80 pages, only 12 places I found the word industry and most of all in the context of the creative industries in culture. So what's bothering me is that I don't see the promotion of the green industry, the development of the green industry in Croatia. I see the greening of different industries in Croatia, but I would like, when we withdraw money from the eu funds, to spend it on what was first produced in Croatia, as regards renewable energy sources, new materials, rather than importing it from other EU member states.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44833	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44834	Thank you very much. There are more than enough industries and economies and components of green as well as components of digital, the whole concept of the National Recovery and Resistance Plan as well as the entire recovery and resilience mechanism. The EU has, however, been put in the context of a fundamental topic, we can say the mandate of European institutions since 2019-2024, which is the green plan, which is why they are 20% criteria here, the 37% criteria of the "Do No Significent Harm" principle or do not cause significant damage, precisely in all those elements relating to climate change, and some of the projects that are here suggested for financing certainly represent the very real symbols of Croatian entrepreneurship and Croatian green and digital direction, to the extent that we have never had before. I think you'll be pleased on that side.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44835	Thank you. Comrade Bencic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44836	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, I expected this National Recovery and Resistance Plan as a central site to be detected by those industrial branches that are at risk of green transformation on the one hand and investment in the specific sectors and on the other hand detected by those branches that are particularly potent to enable them to produce the goods and services we need in the green transformation, but also in the post-traumatic recovery. Neither, nor does the other one stand in this plan, so I ask you when you say that there is, however, to list me the minimum three economic activities that are at risk of green transformation and to list me three branches that are particularly potent, which are in this National Recovery Programme that you will finance them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44837	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44838	Dear Representative Bencic. In particular, Minister Ćorić, who in his portfolio has both the Ministry of Economy and the segment of the economy and the protection of the environment, will explain all the projects to you today, and precisely in his portfolio and the synergy of these two State Administration resolutions, has drawn up a series of projects that embody national priorities that are in line with both the development strategy and with the Government's programme. And as for investment, I think that this project that you will see... an investment planned by 1.5 billion kuna in an industry that is not a 4th industrial revolution but can be told the concept of Croatia's development as we can only wish, which has caused general enthusiasm and partners on the other hand, what this National Recovery Plan will make special.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44839	Thank you. Comrade Demetlik, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44840	I thank Mr. President of the Parliament. Mr. Prime Minister. You said you were looking for as broad a social consensus as possible, but I ask why and in this case there is no open and transparent dialogue with the social partners, i.e. with the owners, with the training to really create a healthy partnership relationship and partner consultations. In fact, what bothers the businessmen in this programme of C1 where we have 54% of the resources planned, 26 billion to the extent that it will belong to the public and how much to the private sector. How do we think from this draft, and I would call it a bokot, think about giving extra power to the engine of development, which is the economy to reach developed EU countries, because we know that we have a major drop in GDP, and with these measures we expect to raise the economy to a high level by 2026? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44841	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44842	Thank you very much, Mr. Demetlika. Here is your replica de facto echo of different representatives of entrepreneurs and employers and of course to simulate the content of the National Recovery and Resistance Plan itself, and ultimately in investment projects. One more time I'm going to tell you again, so there's no place in the distribution legislation in private and in public in the end, almost 95% of our estimates are going to pay off as end-users just the companies that are, of course, the private sector and not the public, and every public investment is eventually made by the private sector. So it's a false public dilemma, some mantra that apparently some people keep repeating for a certain reason and I think it's more than detailed to social partners, you weren't at that meeting, I am, I think that's clear to them. And they'll be happy with this, and probably you. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44843	Thank you very much. Comrade Bosnjakovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44844	Dear President of the Croatian Government, I see from this document that the great importance is given to tourism, we don't even have to talk about how important tourism is for our entire economic development and for our domestic gross product and what percentage it takes. I am very pleased here that it is visible how not only tourism that is dependent on the sun and the sea should be developed but also health and sports and congressional. I want to share a little bit of my experience here, we in Ivanić-Grad, in Zagreb County have a special hospital that is unique in the world, only in Azerbaijan there is another one that treats psoriasis based on medicinal oil. And therefore, since we are in communication with the final document of this kind, I ask you to continue on health tourism and in other parts and not only in those who are already achieving results.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44845	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44846	Thank you very much, Representative Bosnjakovic. Right, more than detailed I am familiar with the hospital that exists in Ivanić-City for psoriasis and I visited it, you were there with me, I understand the interest of branding Ivanić-City and Zagreb County through what exists in Ivanić-Grad already now for orientation towards health tourism. As for the NPO itself and the works related to tourism, we are here along with the coastal counties, mentioning continental tourism, we want to separate some of the detachment for the sector and of course we can connect it to health tourism. What seems particularly important to me is that the Minister of Tourism led close consultations with different actors in the tourism sector and that according to the information I have as a feedback, they are very pleased with the final structure as it is today at the debate in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44847	Thank you. Comrade Vrkljan, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44848	Your Honor, Mr. Prime Minister. The health debt has reached 14 billion kn, which is exactly half of HZZO's annual budget. At the same time, your government over the last five years has forgiven the insurance companies 1.2 billion kn not paid to HZZO's burden on the traffic damage. Currently, insurance companies only pay 5000 kn based on traffic damage and we know that these items you today for 5000 kn in the health system cannot be more serious review systematically. I wonder why your government expects big funds from the EU or significant funds for the recovery of Croatian health and at the same time cannot charge from insurance companies that are in Croatia doing what the HZZO belongs to?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44849	Thank you. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44850	Thank you very much. I must admit that this topic of insurance from accidents in traffic and then related to health costs, as far as I know, is not part of the NPO in any way, I think that Minister Beros, your colleague from the same health institution that you worked in, Agent Vrkljan, can possibly explain it but not through the NPO theme, this is the topic to be taken into account by the Ministry of Health, HZZ and insurance houses in direct negotiations, I do not see that this is the subject of today's debate in any way. And as for the funds for health care that we have here, such a complete investment in this number of health institutions in parallel for several years, I think here you are, too, the Minister of Health, would be happy if you could implement it in your term of office.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44851	Comrade Puljak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44852	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, you said earlier in your presentation, so as you participated in the negotiations, are you proud of how much money you have made in relation to other countries, namely Croatia has chosen the most funding in terms of GDP, you said, here I quote "I think we need it", here's just your comment, so why do we need the largest amount of funding from all countries, why are we in Bulgaria, Greece, and not in Austria, the Netherlands, Denmark, Ireland that have withdrawn at least from GDP and how do you comment on complaints from social partners or employers' associations that were not involved in the process of drawing up this document? Here you are saying that you have called for proposals all, here are the social partners, all groups, the opposition and they therefore say because they are not satisfied with the ratio between the public sector and the private sector, or how much private sector funds are foreseen? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44853	Thank you. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44854	Thank you very much, Counselor Puljak. I think you know very well when the country entered the EU, Croatia entered on 1 July 2013, the youngest member of the EU, but Bulgaria and Romania were longer than we were in membership for 6 years, Slovenia, Hungary, Poland, the Czech Republic and stayed longer than we were in membership for 9 years, none of them had aggression on their territory, none of us had war damage, and I think that there is a floscule and the the thesis about which we are in 2021 for everyone who has at least 35 years in Croatia, should not be repeated and interpreted, but if you need it, I can tell you all of it by not knowing which way, so that you place some of the facts that are not in themselves visible in public. As for these objections to HUP and others, I answered the new president of HUP yesterday to his letter, all the resolutions are here to consult on all topics, and I'm sure they're pleased that Mr. Demetlik here represent them.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44855	Thank you very much. Comrade Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44856	Thank you very much, esteemed President HS, the Honorable Prime Minister. Despite criticism, I would point out that the new forecasts of the CNB on our GDP growth for the coming period in the following year have increased to 5.9%, which means an increase of 0.7 compared to the previous period. And when we look at the situation that the Ministry of Finance will coordinate and implement all of these procedures that have not been foreseen for its work by a single kuna, it is all aimed at developing both economies and all other sectors, then it would also look back on that here only in the economy sector or environmental protection where we are witnessing how much trouble it is trying to increase the actual level of environmental protection.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44857	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44858	Thank you, beautiful representative Peric, for this comment relating to work and the Ministry of Finance, which was particularly directly involved in the preparation of this plan and coordination and which even some of the reforms that are here are not intending to finance through investments from the NPO but will finance them through regular funding and thus free them from more resources for the real economy and other sectors, which I believe is extremely good and useful. In addition to the National Recovery and Resistance Plan itself, we will also make a decision on the institutional structure of the implementation of this entire set of projects and investments where important roles will be played by exactly the resolution ministers by components, but also by the office, my office and of course by the Ministry of Finance as bodies that coordinated all these activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44859	Comrade Bauk, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44860	We have a National Recovery and Resistance Plan, then we have a draft National Recovery and Resistance Plan, that's the floor below, so we have a summary of the National Plan and Resistance draft, that's two floors below, and we have a summary of the draft plan, that's three floors below. So HS was brought into the basement, and then two more floors below when he discussed this. Why? That's why, Mr. President, what you can do. So, in that sense, this has served you to have one morning two hours, three hours before the local elections, how long it takes your exposé to get these balls thrown at you and to insult the opposition as you normally do. And I've raised a replica of humble desire to you once again, but much perhaps more convincing than two days ago explain that the covid supplement has nothing to do with local elections and that you act seriously? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44861	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44862	Thank you very much. So you're a representative all the time that I'm prime minister, which means you're following all the current mornings, if you find any questions that anyone in the parliamentary majority has asked me, I'll be glad, perhaps in the first current hour. I don't think there was one, and there was about 70% of the issue of the entire opposition all these five years. And it's good that it is, and so it's likely to be in the future. So much for hitting on people. He says Mr. Bukarica has 55 replicas on the draft of the National Recovery and Resistance Plan and also on the information adopted by the government. It seems to me that it's quite an interest, even I would say bigger than ever, which means it's good that the document is there, and I'm sure the pensioners as the most vulnerable group will be pleased that you and I are showing social solidarity to them with the covid supplement.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44863	Thank you very much. Comrade Bačić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44864	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister, here's another ball I'll throw you, considering it doesn't bother our colleagues from the opposition. Namely, the basis for my replica is in the preface of this document, which states that the starting point of the document on which the National Recovery and Resistance Plan is based was adopted during the EU Republic of Croatia's Presidency when the European Commission proposed the next generation document on which the Recovery and Resistance Mechanism is based and from which this document arises, and in this process were chaired by your ministers for the committee's preparatory sessions. Similarly, a multi-annual financial framework was adopted and proposed by the Commission and Croatia has been through the best of all EU Member States with both documents. Did it fall out of the sky, in itself, or was it the result of the knowledge, skill and documentation of this government?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44865	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44866	Thank you very much, Honorable Representative Bacic. The fact that the Union has really responded quickly to the consequences of economic and social above all, the greatest health threat in the last 100 years. and that this happened during the time, lived, that this was happening during the Croatian Presidency, says that we also contributed to a rapid reaction that allowed consensus on the multiannual financial framework and the "EU next generation" instrument to be reached, the fact that Croatia has when summed up to these 24.5 billion different sources available for the next 10 years. and the fact that we need to use more than EUR 5.5 billion paid so far from the current financial perspective, which means that together, not that it has fallen from the sky, but that we have provided financial deposits that we have not so far had for the benefit of all not only the parliamentary majority.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44867	Thank you very much. My colleagues, Grba Bujević, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44868	Mr. President-in-Office, Prime Minister. To get where we want to, and we want to live longer, and we want to live better, and we want to reduce the health inequalities we have. I think that the excellent NPO is included in the health sector, of course, the new model takes care of the key health challenges in which, not only care about chronic patients, but the extraordinary care for malignant patients. This is, of course, the continuity of the work of this government that is being seen here because it is well-designed to prepare, and based on the National Plan against Cancer and the National Development Strategy. So it was possible that, in fact, through the NPOO, all those segments that were needed to enable malignant patients and their care for malignant patients to be as good and as quality as we ultimately promised people that we would work. I find that very important. Of course I like that it fits into all that expensive and health care connected then through All these projects, so I think it's [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] The health system is excellently written in this NPOO. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44869	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44870	Thank you. Here, I'll tell Agent Bauk that he tells Minister Beros that this is a good assist. What is important is that health care is recognised as part of the portfolio, part of the sector in which additional investments are needed and that these investments and reforms are foreseen on the trail of the government programme, on the trail of different programmes, here is the National Programme for the fight against cancer, for example, one of the reference documents on which this is based, but also the experiences that we had in this very year when the whole health system, all healthcare professionals, doctors, nurses, all the other healthcare staff have shown an enormous contribution to the whole of society, and indeed, I want to thank you and all of your colleagues and colleagues for the efforts you have made. And these investments, they would need an atmosphere for your work and for the longer life of our fellow citizens. Secure. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44871	Now it's time for my colleague, Grman Kizvat, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44872	I thank the president of HS, Mr Plenkovic. You mentioned that you recognized the composition as one of the essential segments of our agriculture. Well, the Cooperation Act was passed in 2015 and to this day, according to my information, no proceedings were conducted. Today, on the Committee on Agriculture, Minister Vukkovic said the law is bad. I am interested in what has been done for the last five years and has announced an amendment, or a new legislative framework. If the NPOO refers to the '21-26 period, if we adopt a new legislative framework, we will spend at least 2 to 3 more years. I want to know how much resources we're going to be able to pull off on the commission or, in the absence of a legislative solution, you're going to reach out to this so-called. The bad law and the pilot projects that were made with that law, so that the funds could be withdrawn in the first place, or will the commission, as well as everything else in agriculture, be shot blank? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44873	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44874	Thank you very much, ma'am. Grman Kizzwat. It seems to me that Minister Vučkovic on the board has essentially explained everything why we have put the commission in place, why we want the law which has obviously proved inadequate for everything that is important to us at this time, to move forward with a new regulation of the issues covered by the conflict in a way that is better than the existing legislation to be a priority and to make investments that will contribute to the development of Croatian agriculture, of course, to greater and more quality production, on the basis of our objective, and the goal is to increase Croatian agricultural production by 30%. This is exactly one of the modes to make it happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44875	Comrade Nikolic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44876	Your Honor, Prime Minister. Why do I think this draft is a piece of shit? In the “Instruction, Science and Research” component, you have not devoted a single shred of attention to solving this burning problem. My three-year-old girl in one of her senses since September last year has changed as many as five breeders. The reason is that these breeders often cannot afford to work on short substitutes for sick leave or broken contracts for a certain period of time, which last for years. Also, breeders often redistribute without reason within the institution itself, which is a shock, not only for children who emotionally bind themselves to aunts, but also for our parents. Unfortunately, problems do not stop there because kindergartens do not respect the national and pedagogical standards, which means that one raiser often takes care of more than 20 children, and it is questionable that the quality of the work and the room in which the children are staying is significantly impaired. I believe that as a father of a kindergarten girl, you will have an understanding of my concern and take the necessary steps. so that our children grow up and develop in a safe and positive environment. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44877	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44878	Thank you very much. We have more than clearly recognised the question of pre-school institutions, therefore and kindergarten, and I think that just through the National Recovery Plan and the resistance of activities that the Ministry of Science and Education will normally take to allow for better investment and a more stable and quality position of employees in these institutions, I have two children in kindergarten, thank you for following their development, so that I may not be as much as you do, but I am quite familiar with this situation of rotation that affects the aspect of commitment, I know that, so Minister Fuchs is also engaged to resolve this issue and to use this programme for better services and employment stability of all those working in kindergarten institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44879	Comrade Vlasic Iljkić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44880	I thank the president of HS. Dear Prime Minister, your welfare system is out of control and your interest. To improve the social care system, you have set four goals in this document that you called reform, which is not a reform. There is no sign of strengthening foster care, reorganisation of the social care centre or strengthening family justice. I guess because the number of foster families was reduced by 254, when we compare the data as it was during 2015, and the number of children at the accommodation increased by almost 2000. On the Committee on Health and Social Policy on Friday, we could hear that the ministry has no intention of making any changes or new law, Family Law. Watch out, 6th year from the application of the Family Law and your announcements on the adoption of a new law or amendments to the law, he's suddenly good. Then how's it going? The law, which was recommended in 2015, is now good? [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44881	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44882	Thank you very much. As regards the issue of foster care, they cannot and must not be all the issues concerning individual resolutions and individual sectors included in the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, you know for yourself that this is ultimately part of the competence of the Member States, that this is the subject with which each government and every state and every society should be dealt with in a committed manner. As far as your observations are concerned about how much anyone is involved, how much anyone is up to, how much anyone deals with this topic, the government deals with issues of social policy, the government deals with family, the government deals with foster care, the government deals with such serious incidents and the tragic situations that we had a few days ago and is engaged in this area and Minister Aladrović, so if you want to, and I personally and his whole team, and thus we will deal with which, in a way that is not necessarily related to the NPO, because those old ones are not interlinked.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44883	Thank you. My fellow Perky Billic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44884	Thank you. The Honorable President of the Croatian Government. The Recovery and Resistance Plan also announces the reform of the internal waterway system. Knowing that the Ship State has given 80 million kuna guarantees for the port, and that for the time being more than 200 million kunas are invested, and in order for it to take advantage of its potential, it requires airworthiness, in this case the Sava River which is currently possible only a few months from Slavonski Brod to Sisak, while the rest of the time is in poor condition due to the deposit of mineral raw materials and navigation is mostly disabled. So the port of the ship is an object that most of the time cannot be approached. What are the concrete steps that will contribute to internal navigation reform because the port currently cannot use its potential and the project itself gives the impression that, as you might say, you are starting to build a house from the roof.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44885	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44886	Thank you, well-respected MP Opačak Bilić, I have not heard this last sentence, so I apologize, but what is important is that I have a very well-known investment in the port of Brod. Luka Brod is an investment and a project that was signed during our first government, I think it is very good for the economy of the entire Brod-Posavina County, for Slavonski Brod itself, as regards the airworthiness, activities that the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Connection are taking when it comes to internal navigation issues on top of everything Minister Butkovic knows how to call a Renaissance on the Croatian coast. It represents one of the most important priorities. I think the fleet of the Sava River from the Ship to Sisak should be one of the key tasks, I believe that both national funds and investments that will go through NPOO would be as long over the year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44887	Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44888	Thank you very much. This plan should be a plan for the survival and return of our people. However, I see here the improvement of the water economy and the management of waste. In Split-Dalmatia County, we have a huge problem with waste management. The lens, there's a lot of money down there, there's still a lump growing, you have to read mushrooms, you can do whatever you want, and basically, nothing's done. We have a problem with waste management, moving from Vrgorec to Sinj from one sense to another sense, the same municipal conditions and nothing is solved. Also, this is very important in terms of agglomeration itself, construction and agglomeration. We have a problem that blue agglomeration came under the questionnaire, so I ask you one more time. We know what Cetina means at this point as a drinking, clean water that feeds half of Dalmatia. That you would at least provide those 150 million kunas that are missing for construction to begin Agglomeration of Sinj and the rescue of the river Cetina. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44889	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44890	Thank you very much, Reverend Bull. When it comes to the issue of waste management, when it comes to environmental protection, when it comes to the water economy, I think we have more than clearly pointed out in the National Recovery and Resistance Plan that we have clearly made reforms when it comes to the water economy programme, about sustainable waste management, very precisely identified investments in the sector that is important, not only for the Split-Dalmatia County but which is important for a number of other areas, when it comes to the Lečevica programme, this project of the waste management centre is under way, you know very well about it, and I am also familiar with you about the occasional challenges that existed between Lečevica, which is in Split-Dalmatia County, Unesic, which is in Sibenik-Knin County and all topics that are related to the karstish region. But what is important is that this project must be completed in a way that will not endanger the quality of the aquatic environment in [[Intruder: Thank you.]] That's the end. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44891	A fellow Bull, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44892	Thank you very much. The Prime Minister has been injured by an article. 238 because it's simply the only truth, the truth is that Lečevica is a harmful project that has gotten into 30 million kunas so far, and nothing has been done and we have a problem that will happen worse than in Naples a few years ago, that we will have a huge problem of waste management, as building agglomeration i.e. sewers and drains in the area of Sinj, Because Cetina feeds half of Croatia, half of Dalmatia. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44893	You received a second warning, this wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Let's move on, Comrade Sacic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44894	Dear Prime Minister, I see on page 16 of this document, you have put for protection, improvement, this under the term "Development of State Innovation Tourism", 26 billion, more than 26 billion kuna. And of course, it also includes protecting our agriculture, producing food, and given the different circumstances in one part of my life, I am still engaged in the production of wine, and I know, I know, I am deeply familiar with the drama that all together, winemakers, winemakers have been experiencing for the last year and now, how much effort it takes, how much this society has invested in us before we enter the EU billions of kuna, and we are now producing thanks to these circumstances for supplies. Please do everything in your power to protect part of the OPG and to refund. Second, yes, Mr. Minister Beros not declaring [[Intruder: Thank you]] frontal state of lockdown [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] For hosts, hospitality [[Agreement: Thank you fellow Sacic]] 'Cause it's the only way we can get in... [[Agreement: Comrade Sačić, thank you]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44895	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44896	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44897	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44898	Thank you very much, Mr. Sacic. It's not the decision of Minister Berosa, it's the decisions of the headquarters, so collective decisions, decisions that are not happily made, but are taken as anti- epidemic measures. I think that all of us together, regardless of how you were involved through your life journey, among other things in the production of wine and winemaking, are aware that these are not measures against the caterer but are measures to prevent and reduce infection and there is no one who does not feel comfortable when or when these measures are taken. As for the support of winemakers and winemakers, you seem to have been following this afternoon, at 3:00 a.m., the cabinet session is now going to Minister Vukkovic with a measure of support and support for winemakers and winemakers, I hope you will be pleased.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44899	Comrade Grmo, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44900	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, many MPs have warned that most of this money is unfortunately going back to the public sector and that is a big problem for our entrepreneurs and businessmen. But I will deal with the fight against corruption and justice. So again, some digitisation is being promised, and the government, our Croatian government, even though it was 2013, has invested a million EUR from European funds, more than EUR million in audio recording equipment and is not being used. And today the minister tells me now we're going back to that project. So, we're going to beat the money into the apps, we're going to beat the money into your construction companies that are good to you, we're going to promise the connection and the digitization again, so we don't know who's been vaccinated in Croatia today. They say they're calling people for vaccinations, they didn't show up, so they didn't show up because part of it was vaccinated, and their family doctors didn't bring it in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44901	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44902	Thank you very much. I understand your topic is with the agreement we have on fighting corruption and strengthening judicial independence and its effectiveness is the topic of digitisation. The theme of digitisation is, in addition to the green transformation, the main framework of the whole meaning of the "EU Next Generation" programme, not only for us but for everyone else. You've heard in the opening statement that we're well above... % and above 20% when it comes to the evaluation of investments envisaged here. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The goal of digitisation is soon, you will see we will present a new central portal of e-citizens who, in my view, will remain one of the legacy that our fellow citizens will use, now it uses about a million and 300 thousand citizens, I believe that they will use more, and projects in the judiciary that need to enable better functioning are certainly benefits, whether they from 2013 or now.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44903	Thank you. Comrade Milanović litre, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44904	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister, the Croatian economy is in crisis, debt growth, tourist season is questionable, social care reform is carried out through social networks, and judicial reform is led by a convicted criminal from Medjugorje. I ask you, at this point, who will be responsible for all these reforms, incentives and resources listed in this summary, and who will guarantee to the Croatian people that they will not once again watch the funds be allocated in a friendly, party or other relationship?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44905	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44906	Thank you very much. It does not implement the reform of the judiciary of anyone who is not part of the Croatian institutions system, and the floscule you can read in the media from some commentators. I would advise you for the benefit of you as an agent and your integrity not to use you toking points. That's number one. The same thing is when it comes to the social system. What is particularly important and important and is related to digitisation and I think you are aware that this is a subject that will increase transparency and prevent any corrupt activity. It is the key, it is one of the mechanisms, one of the tools to return to the essence of a high-quality and well-organised society, and the projects that will be funded will finance them and perform those who will be the best in the competitions, and these competitions will be transparent and fair.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44907	Thank you. Hey, buddy Buck, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44908	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister, I have a question, a particular question that I even believe has been passed on to you, which concerns sub-component 4.2, which is called "Improvement of the pension system through an increase in pension adequateness", and it is said that this will be achieved through a) redefining the family pension model and through b) increasing pensions from II. Retirement pillar. Now, both of them are intriguing, more than intriguing. Maybe we don't have time for both, but I would ask you then that if you can at least briefly look back and comment and answer closer, how exactly is this planned, as the government plans, the emphasis is on the words "planning" to use this instrument and this, this money to increase pension from the second pillar? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44909	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44910	Thank you very much, esteemed representative Bakic. As far as pension reform is concerned, we implemented the pension reform as you remember during 2018, in 2019 we had that referendum initiative that was one of the most spectacular SDP transformation processes that I have to admit I won't forget while I'm alive. So the government and the party that brought the reform to work up to 67 had a bunch of MPs who wanted to sign the referendum initiative, which is very important that 67 is enough. As for the reform of the pension system you heard and yesterday it seems to me how clearly the government stood behind the second pillar, we believe that it is good and beneficial and that the reforms that are precisely here are on track Further strengthening of the second pillar. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44911	Now it's your turn, Comrade Matula, please don't throw it out of the bench like that. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44912	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, in your summary culture, you mention in the economics component of reform number 6 and here you are talking about strengthening competitiveness, removing obstacles to business in the digital market. And you see for us in the platform We can and for the green-left block culture would deserve one whole component if it were adequately connected because it is naturally related to the education sector, to social policy, to the economy, but also to entrepreneurship and craftsmanship within it, to tourism, certainly to environmental protection. Well, you see, in that way, that culture is connected and presented inside, and if it didn't have a little bit of money again, like otherwise, it would really help recover and it would make society. Resilient. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44913	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44914	Thank you very much, Mr. Matula. It seems to me that it is precisely a proposal that has been drawn up at the level of consultation of resors, and there has been a special role played by the Ministry of Culture and Media who have just wanted the aspect and investment in the creative industries to be highlighted through the economy by a single contribution which, in the wake of the entire philosophy of the National Recovery Plan and the resistance and the EU instrument of the next generation. So we have positioned culture where it can generate new values, where it can attract investors, where it can be a profitable industry in the way we see it in the 21st century and I think that in your consultations with the Minister of Culture you can further express your possible suggestions and comments on how to strengthen this segment in a way that you too are satisfied.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44915	Find a colleague, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44916	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, even we under the age of 35 know that we are not among the worst countries of the EU because of the war because many countries have only overtaken us years after the war. And we cannot only blame the coronary crisis because all EU countries had the same problem, but in time they built a stronger economy based on a strong private sector. So I'm asking you, and if you've already mentioned this, please repeat, of the 15 billion kunas you said were intended for the private sector, whether these were only from the recovery plan or from the next seven-year financial period. And the second question is, is it a grant or is it aid through financial instruments? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44917	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44918	Dear Mr. Find, I don't know what age you are, I believe you are well informed so that you know for sure if you don't already remember because you were too young when someone entered the EU. You can probably remember that. That's what you know, you know for sure, you seem to know. On the other hand, you probably know which country used the least and the shortest pre-accession support from Central and Eastern Europe. You know what country that is? It's Croatia. Croatia was a small footnote, all ninety and got nothing. She received autonomous trade privileges as a unilateral measure of the EU, received humanitarian aid, had political dialogue. From pre-accession funds unlike Hungary, Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Slovenia that absorbed it for 12 years received zero. And there's a difference between the beginning and what you want to present to the public. As far as these funds are concerned, they are non-refundable, there will be mechanisms for the private sector to apply, and these are the EU's only next generation funds They have nothing to do with the multiannual financial framework for the private sector. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44919	The next replica of the respected representative Pavic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44920	Dear Prime Minister, in this document you provide information about the opening of 100,000 jobs, however, a question arises for whom we will open them, as we are witnessing a large outflow of the working-age population. The document did not specify how many jobs you plan to open in certain sectors or industries, which would be extremely important for the component of education, science and research, because then you could create a plan of education for individual professions or a plan for enrollment of students and students in occupation programmes that will be deficited in case these jobs are really opened because it is definitely new jobs that have not existed so far because of the new technologies that we will use. If we were to make a quality connection in that part, we would not educate our fellow citizens for another labour market and we would certainly be sure that our young people will not leave Croatia. This is also important for the requalification system, so I think it would be good to consider this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44921	The answer of the Honorable Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44922	Thank you, well-respected representative Pavić, you certainly know that in the first term of 2006 to 2020, compared to the period we found opened and that 109.000 jobs, new jobs, 109.000 opened in Croatia. Therefore, this assessment of 100,000 jobs is not some abstract assessment that is not based on an analysis that is not based on fresh data. In the mandate of the SDP government in 2012 to 2015, it is certain that the Minister Bauk lost 46,000 jobs at the time, while the number of youth employees was reduced by 30,000. These are comparable numbers, verifiable and important to talk about. What is important is that all these funds will generate the growth of the Croatian economy, that they will generate employment growth according to our deep conviction and less mobility, i.e. smaller departure of Croatian people to others Member States of the EU. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44923	Thank you. Comrade Kujundzic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44924	Thank you, Mr. Jandrokovic, the respected Croatian Presidential Government. Without commenting on this plan, someone would say a plan for the Croatians' departure from Croatia, I would ask you two specific questions. So, in January 2020 on the 30th anniversary of the HDZ Imotski, you promised the Zagvozd-Vinjani Gornji joint road, that it would be over by the end if I didn't cheat in 2023, you know that it was actually the second lung of the Imot region and the necessary prerequisite for the remaining huge number of residents actually living upstairs. So will the traffic mentioned be included in this plan and will it of course be worth this deadline for ending it? And second question, is he planning to introduce an electronic vote and arrange a list of voters? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44925	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44926	Dear Representative Kujundzic, by the name of Kujundzic in HDZ, I see you've been following our meetings, I thought you were HDZ and then I remembered a little bit there, so I don't think you are. But it's good to follow, maybe you, like some other Kujunjiqi, come to HDZ. It is not bad in Imotski where HDZ will win again despite the efforts of some others and it would be good to co-operate with Mayor Budalic, who is a parliamentary representative like you. We are well aware of how important Imotski's merger with the highway is for the Imotski region, I think Minister Butkovic understood more than clearly and realized how important it is and what a priority it is for the transport infrastructure of the Split-Dalmatia County. We will build transport infrastructure to build you through NPO, through other instruments, especially VFO and Connecting Europe facilitity and that is how we will [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] I'm sure you'll provide funds for this road, as far as the deadline goes, [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]] We'll try to make it that deadline. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44927	We have a fellow bush with a breach of the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44928	I would only ask because the prime minister constantly avoids answering this question about the electronic vote and the voter list, that in the next replicas to answer the question.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44929	You know what you deserve, so... I won't even mention that my colleague Bauk isn't very concerned. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Let's move on, colleague Oreshkovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44930	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Prime Minister, it seems that all day the opposition has been criticizing you, and here I will commend you. I will commend you for excellently copying the public administration's performance under point C2.2., the measures already set out in the Action Plan for the implementation of the Public Administration Development Strategy for the period 2017 to 2020. The only problem is that in this recovery plan you listed the same measures that should have already been implemented, some by 2018 and some by 2020. But you were right and you did not send a complete document to the Croatian Parliament because there is nothing the Croatian Parliament can discuss about Croatia's future, it is enough for you to send a summary and there are enough beatings in the Croatian Parliament to accept it unspeakably and to show that they love Croatia and it is enough for me that you just show yourself and promise that you'll probably spend this as well. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]] So far, all of Croatia will be of your own [[The incursion president: Thank you very much.]] words to feel recovered. [[Break president: Comrade Oreshkovic, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44931	Thank you very much. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44932	Thank you very much, distinguished representative Oreshkovic. Thank you for your commendation, which is important that the public administration reform is recognized and included as both the judiciary and state property and in the NPO and with all regular activities because we must keep in mind that the context of NPO production is based on other previously adopted documents. And in the National Development Strategy which you have received integrally, which, of the great creativity in me, is a smart, wise, educated people and not what you call them in the Croatian Parliament, only one amendment, one single amendment, and that is an act that the Parliament really adopts. This is an act that the Government adopts, we are discussing for the sake of information and the Croatian public and the involvement of Croatian representatives, and I think that's good. and positive and that you probably actually agree with me. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44933	My colleague Vidovic Kristo, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44934	In this NGO, you shyly mention the judiciary and it is a key obstacle to Croatian development. That you and the other political powers protect corruption, it's common knowledge, that you violate laws, openly and demonstrate it. Not on any of my parliamentary issues in the last seven months. you have not responded even though you are bound by both the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Angela Merkel answers parliamentary questions within 7 days and it is unthinkable not to do so at all, and you are not responding to the protection of state tycoon Tedeschi and JNA lawyer Šeparović. Are you aware that breaking the law is working against your own state? Why does a Merkel respect his laws and thus his own state and you don't?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44935	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44936	Thank you very much, MP Vidović Kristo for another brilliantly read question this time in the form of a replica that really has nothing to do with the NPO, but I was just looking at the statistics before this last current morning, so my secretary is the Prime Minister. Ferencic pointed out that from 140 questions asked, we answered 131, which seems to me a pretty good score in terms of information. As far as I know, we're also answering your questions, and I don't know if there are any questions in the process of preparing a few answers, but we're sure to answer. What has been noticed by people who read the contents of your questions, that you often ask the government something that is not in the government's jurisdiction. Well, if you think it's a topic that you need in such a theatrical way to hear Croatian citizens, I can understand you but it's important to hear the other side, so says a nice principle of Roman law,.../The speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44937	Thank you very much. Here is the violation of the Rules of Procedure... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44938	So, he's injured. 238, reprimanding. This answer to Mr. Plenkovic in the people would say that you lied and that you were lying. I'm not going to put it that way, but I'm going to say that you're making total lies, some kind of pamphlets that aren't connected to anything aren't answers, you know that. So, you haven't answered any of my questions, you are knowingly violating both the Constitution and the laws, and the Croatian public is seeing more and more.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44939	Your colleagues Vidović Kristo are being warned, this was not a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Let's move on, colleague Peovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44940	Good afternoon, Prime Minister Plenkovic. I would say that the ultimate irony of what TBF would say is irony for the end, that we have more resources for others at our disposal because we are lagging behind more than others. There is no mention here of the key thing that unfortunately the opposition would probably repeat, part of the opposition exactly as you do, that the funds are obtained under certain conditions, and these are the conditions that, if we stick to, we remain in the position of underdevelopment that has led us there by following those rules. So, among other things, it is about conditions that prevent investment policies that could really strengthen domestic economy. The clause that industrial policy funds should not be used, for vertical subsidies, for so-called Picking winner strategies etc. And that's why the National Recovery Plan won't show up to the industry, even if not those who have the possibility of a temporary recovery.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44941	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44942	As for the criteria that exist, in the meantime I'm going to be allowed a few seconds about the previous debate here we've now checked, it looks like we've answered all the questions, just like that for the public to know. As regards your inquiry on criteria, therefore the criteria are regulated by a regulation adopted in the procedure through the Council and through the European Parliament clearly cited these three basic criteria 37%, 20% of the green, digital and the principle of non-compliance in a way that puts them in the context of environmental protection and climate change. It's normal and natural under these circumstances. But I remind you, we're only talking about the first 6.3 billion of these 30 that we have to consume and spend over the next 10 years. There will also be funding through the multiannual financial framework, there will be a project through cohesion policy, through possible loans, through a series of other activities So we have more at our disposal than.../Speakers speak at the same time./... [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44943	Thank you very much. A colleague of Peovic's injuries to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44944	238, I would ask nicely if the prime minister would at least stick to the questions he's asked, and not answer the question of a previous representative or representative, I think that would be a minimum of correctness in this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44945	My colleague, Peovic, the Prime Minister, touched the past question with one crackdown, and answered your question, so it's completely unnecessary what you've done, and I have to give you a warning because this has nothing to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I'm just asking you for one explanation, so these are questions and answers, replicas and answers to the replica, and there have been a lot of questions today that may not have been directly related to the subject, but what the Prime Minister has answered is certainly much closer to the subject than many of the questions that have been asked today and I haven't given anyone any notice. ... Comrade Matula, please, let's now turn the discussion into some sort of small misdemeanor, stick to the content, and also don't throw it out of place. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Let's move on now, colleague Ivana Posavec Krivec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44946	Thank you, Your Honor. The Honorable Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. You are in this assembly on 15 September 2017. I can say what I want. That's when you showed your attitude towards Parliament, to the MPs, and also to the Croatian citizens. Today you're obviously doing it again, this time in a slightly different way, non-verbally. Nonverbally, by sending information about a summary of the NPO draft, you even invite your advisor here on the side to pick it up, so we can all see this famous hidden document. Prime Minister, we all know very well in advance that this is your public theatre, in no way will we affect the final document that you are sending to the European Commission and which you are drawing up Croatia's future. But I will note, by just defining priorities and goals, by favouring the public administration, you're showing that the biggest problem with you is in your house.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44947	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44948	Dear Representative Posavec. You're just as much as I remember a government employee, and that's my MVEP colleague, and I'm sure you know how to make documents of this type, because you have a minimum of 20 years of experience in this system, and I don't think that's surprising. So once again for the public, this is an act of the government, not an act of the Parliament, our intention was for both the public and the Parliament to discuss it. Whether we spend hours and hours on whether it's called draft summary information or whether you're going to enter the substance is your choice. This document is good, and the proposal of your comments on quoting me on that date and on that date was just a statement to the fact that the Prime Minister can respond to a variety of overtures before then cutting off what we say or at least I do, and it is rarely cut and forgotten. But I'm glad you're quoting me and that's good. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44949	Thank you very much. Let's go to the last line of my colleague Glamuzine, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44950	Thank you. Your Honor, Prime Minister. In the recently voted National Development Strategy, it clearly states in Chapter 6, that all acts of strategic planning of the strategy will come out, such as: The NPOO, having to implement bearing in mind the goals of gender equality, among other things, although both the UN and the EU have been clearly communicating for months the necessity of including the gender dimension in all recovery plans, this draft which we have received is not mentioned in a single word. Yesterday on one committee, if Minister Ćoric can recall me, he replied that the whole document contains nothing, no new chapters or concepts that are not mentioned in the draft, so it is to assume that this birth dimension is not even in that whole document, which is being held faithfully by the adviser Savic of the public. The Attorney General's Office for Gender Equality has officially confirmed to me that the government has not consulted on this. I ask you, will you consult at least your own gender equality agency before send it to the EU Commission. [[Intruder: Here's the answer.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44951	/Intruder: Here's the answer..
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44952	As for gender equality issues as one of the aspects and we can say, the mandatory elements of all national recovery and resilience plans, I am sure that you are aware of Glamuzine, that you are aware and that you know that this part has been added to the regulation on the initiative of the EU Parliament's insistence, and that this great whole document that exists, which you see, you colleagues, as they claim to exist, because they are working on it together with the other resolutions of the last 8 months, that the element of gender equality will also be involved. Here I am, if they haven't consulted so far, I will personally ask our Commissioner to have a lawyer for gender equality, so they look at it, too, so I think it's a good suggestion and a good idea. We are for this open, equality that, always, without insulting anyone, especially the minority and that minority in Croatia both in HS and with highest levels. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44953	Thank you very much. I thank the Prime Minister. We've come to an end. Now we're gonna take a break by 13 o'clock. We'll continue with the reports of the board, if any of the board presidents will come forward, and then we'll open a debate on the clubs afterwards. There are 12 clubs for now and 50 individual debates, probably a record so far. It's 12.52 o'clock.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44954	Okay, so point Information on a summary of the National Recovery and Resistance Plan 2021. - 2026. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 13.03 HOURS]] Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? No, we're opening a debate. The first is Mr. Tomaševic, who will speak on behalf of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44955	I thank the chairman. I see that the Prime Minister has left us, and there are very few parliamentary deputies, so much about the importance of this plan and the interest of which the Prime Minister has defended that only a summary is sufficient when there are so many applications and replicas, now here are four MPs even in the assembly. And the Prime Minister has left, but there are two ministers here, so here's at least half of how we started this debate. In October, as We can and as the Green-Left Block Club, we asked for a debate on the National Recovery and Resistance Plan here in the Croatian Parliament. In November too, the Prime Minister promised in a meeting here that we would indeed have a debate in the Croatian Parliament on the national plan, although as we know the national plan is adopted by the Croatian Government, not by the Croatian Parliament. And we commended it. We praised it as a club and I personally praised it. However, we did not think at that time in November last year that we would need it until mid-April to have this debate, and then when this debate comes, that we would only get a summary on the basis of which we are discussing. So it's been more than half a year since we asked to discuss the national plan for it to be concrete, to be constructive and to be appropriate to the importance this document has. Why did we only get a summary? draft, draft a summary, and obviously because it is not yet a national plan, even though the prime minister assured us that he did eventually, and fellow Agent Reiner said he didn't. So I guess that's why, why we don't have it whole, but yet it's not clear why we should have waited so long if it's still not finished, and especially if we keep in mind that a lot of projects are recycled and copied from already existing strategic documents or even some older than our EU membership at all. Since so much is prescribed then it is not clear why we cannot get it whole but now. This is done, but you will not show it to us as if it were the biggest state secret, and I even say state secret in terms of not being seen by representatives or representatives of the Croatian Parliament, representatives of the legislative authority, because I am saying that you have shown it concrete, with concrete projects you could discuss it more specifically, and if you were to criticise anything then you would probably have passed as colleagues on the Committee on Finance in the sense that we have to criticise it because it means that we do not love Croatia. The fact is that the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, as well as the National Reform Programme, is being adopted by the government. However, you cannot implement any of these reforms, almost none of these reforms, without being voted by the Croatian Parliament and in that sense, it would be good if we had information as you say or debate on the overall National Recovery and Resistance Plan, because then a concrete document could also be specifically commented. And if we were to comment specifically on it then, based on these concrete comments, you might as well improve that document, let us hope for the satisfaction of our citizens. However, abstract document or more or less abstract document can only be abstractly commented. So it's inappropriate that we don't have any concrete comments. So we have no concrete comments when we get an abstract summary of 80 pages relative to a document that probably has 700 or 800 pages with all the projects. So it's also cynical of the Prime Minister who now doesn't have you among the countries that you've put on the web, which shows transparency, but I repeat it's just a summary on the web again, it doesn't replace this situation that it's not the whole plan. It's also cynical to say that you have a whole plan, so you can assure us that he's done, so they show him two colleagues of yours on the side and show him here we've got him real, here he is, you see him, that's who I'm saying, reminds me of a quiz wheel of luck, here in window number 2 The National Recovery Plan and Resistance is about to be, you can see him like this, you can see him from 20 meters away, but you can't happen to see what's inside. So you have it, you show it to us, but you don't want to give it to us, I mean, it's amazing. What is also cynical is how the Prime Minister ended this exhibition or presenting the National Recovery and Resistance Plan where he said he was looking forward despite all criticism of the opposition that he would finally open the Pelješki Bridge soon and the LNG Terminal. Now this second, means just two projects that are mentioned for the National Recovery and Resistance Plan that should have 37% of the funds minimum, and you're boasting that you have more on the green transition to represent as the most important project LNG terminal is also a bit cynical. Because as far as I know, LNG terminals aren't exactly a bad idea, but maybe you can't but I can't know because I don't know how you are, what the whole national plan is at the end. Whether LNG terminal is really one of those projects that you run below 37% or above what you say. You claim to have money going to the green transition. Because as far as I know, I also don't know by which, since there are three criteria, one is how much it has to go for a digital transition, the other how much it has to go for a green transition, and the third criterion is that projects can't be harmful to climate change. LNG terminal, as far as I know, because the natural gas radio has some climate emissions and contributes to climate change, less than carbon, it's a fact, but it doesn't have any effect on climate change either. So I'd like to see all these projects that you've come up with numbers that you have more than 37% necessary for the green transition and the same is the same case and as far as the digital transition minimum is concerned. And also what I've already said, the industry in this 80-page summary is mentioned literally 12 times, 12 times, and most of what I said in the context of the cultural industries i.e. The creative industry in culture, the lapus. So what I'm worried about because I think this is a key document for this country's developmental shift is that I don't see the green industry, as we encourage, what projects do we develop our domestic green industry? What we see in the document is the greening of the existing industry, but it's not the same. So increasing energy efficiency and the use of renewable energy sources in the existing industry is not the same as developing our green industry by producing renewable energy, new materials and some materials, especially for energy efficiency, because what we should do with this National Recovery and Resistance plan is to take money from the EU fund next generation and use it, spend that money on our products produced in Croatia, which lead to a green transition rather than spending EU money on products in a green transition that we will introduce from EU member states. That's a big difference. Both are green transitions. But like this, if we encourage our green industry, that added value based on research and development remains as much in the local community as possible. So how do we use money from EU funds to make as much of these newly created values from the green recovery transition remain in the local community is this task, I don't see it from this document. What is resistant in the National Recovery and Resistance Plan are the same projects that are recycled. I'll give you an example. The development of tools for public publication and search of court decisions is still funded as a EUR million technical assistance project in 2008. And now we see the same projects in the digitization of the judiciary. It means something that we did 13 years ago. It has already withdrawn money from the EU, which is clearly not realised. And now if it's that kind of thing, if it's those innovative projects, I think we have a problem. I will thank you in the end, that it does not turn out to be all the criticism, that about 6 billion kunas of that money are being refurbished after the earthquake in Zagreb, Zagreb County, Sisak-Moslavina County and Karlovac County. However, what is not clear, precisely because you gave us a summary, I looked at it in detail, it is not clear how many of those 6 billion kunas because even for that 6th initiative you have only total sum, you don't even have by sub-components, it's not clear how much money will be distributed, how much energy efficiency will go there, how much it will actually go on anti-quake construction or restoration, or strengthening physical resistance, as much on public buildings as on private buildings, I don't see it from the summary. So, to conclude, this is, this national plan is extremely important for Croatia and it is our last chance for a developmental turn, but we do not know what is in concrete projects. And then not only is Croatia not going on the path of recovery but it is going on a journey without returning.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44956	Thank you very much. Mr Tomislav, Minister Tomislav Ćoric on behalf of the promoter for 5 minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44957	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President HS, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and MPs. Let me point out in this 5-minute address some points related to the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, which is also important once again, of course I will also refer to any doubts about this National, National Recovery and Resistance Plan, some of which are presented during today's debate and also in the context of replication and exposure. So, the National Recovery and Resistance Plan of the Republic of Croatia is one of the national plans generated by the 750 billion-euro European envelope, and in response to the major health and economic crisis that hit the EU last year with the fall in economic activity of all EU countries. As you know, its activity, economic activity has fallen by 8.4% points. That is why this plan aims to enable national economies, in our case the Croatian economy to recover, economic recovery, sustainable development and ultimately to increase the resilience of the national economy. It also carries, in itself, a change in the structure of the economy, and that is why this plan aims to ensure, as I once again said, the necessary reforms on the one hand, and on the other hand the actions and investments that in any case an exogenous shock will be able to enable the Croatian economy to suffer less, or that such an exogenous shock will be expected much more readily. I will also point out, however, that this action plan consists of 6 complementary parts, mostly focused on the Croatian economy or on reform processes that will allow for further strengthening of the Croatian economy in all its segments. I will especially highlight the fact that 6 billion kunas from this plan or something more is going towards strengthening competitiveness from the green transition of the economy. How and in what way? We imagine that it is necessary to do so primarily in a way that increases production in the Republic of Croatia and thus reduces the negative balance of the external trade balance as well as ours in the balance sheet, i.e. the goods that our country has recorded for 30 years. One of the key dominant objectives of this plan is that. What direction to go is presented in the context of the draft summary itself in a way that clearly indicates support in the direction of increasing industry, raising the technological level or digitisation of the domestic economy on the one hand, but also financial instruments that will enable it. Thus, the combination of these two types of measures is primarily aimed at making the Croatian economy more resilient or productive for the production sector. This is a legitimate goal that we, as Government and Ministry of Economy, have set ourselves in the realisation of this National Recovery Plan. What I would certainly like to emphasise is the fact that this National Recovery Plan has a highly present and green and digital component. Digitalisation as a component has been implemented in all segments of the plan, ultimately most of the projects we speak towards increasing the efficiency of the public administration or individual segments of the functioning of the Croatian economy are going towards raising these segments to a higher technological level. This is necessary for Croatia in view of the fact that this is what carries an increase in productivity both work on the one hand and production or production process as such in general. The National Recovery and Resistance Plan, worth 49 billion kuna, thus around 13% of Croatia's 2020 GDP. It certainly carries the growth of our country's GDP, but what is even more important is it carries out in projects that will be co-financed with this plan and the possibility that the Republic of Croatia will create assumptions for long-term sustainable development at higher growth rates, which is extremely important for our country, extremely important for the convergence of highly developed EU countries and ultimately for the better life of our citizens. Thank you very much. [[Intruder Radin: Time, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44958	Thank you. Stay because you have replicas. The first line was sought by Mrs. Boska Ban Vlahek.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44959	Dear Minister. It is unclear that the government wants to ensure through the implementation of this recovery plan an increase in the number of employees. Since the document does not have any concrete numerical indicators, nor does the public have insight into these famous 700 pages, it is completely unclear how a number is reached. Given that investment in public investment prevails, not in entrepreneurship, which, through the development of new technologies, research and development and export competitiveness, can only create new jobs, it is unclear where these new jobs will be created.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44960	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44961	Thank you very much, well-respected MPs for your question, or your replica. What I would like to point out is that on page 78 of this summary there is a clear financial development of certain segments of this plan, and in this context I would certainly highlight component C1.1. Strengthening competitiveness, green transition of the economy. I recently referred to two directions on one side of the grant to strengthen the technological level or digitisation of the process, and on the other hand on financial instruments. So there is a concrete way of helping the domestic manufacturing sector, thereby indirectly increasing employment in the Republic of Croatia. Here is only one segment, I could also list water economy promotion projects that have a clear effect on increasing employment in the construction sector, for example. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44962	Thank you. Mrs. Selak Raspadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44963	Two questions, here's when you mentioned the construction sector, which low-building construction companies will participate, given that all large companies, like the constructors, have fallen apart? Are we going to hire the Chinese, the Ukrainians and so on? Is money going to come out of Croatia in the long run? That's the first question. And the second question, we were able to find out from the media about some private companies, or owners, like the Romans, that they're going to get funds out of this. We could also see from this summary that the INA, which is a semi-private company, will also receive some funds. That all private individuals and on the basis of which the criteria will still specifically receive funds from this fund, i.e. from this recovery plan. Since it refers to some names, that these are certain private companies that can lead to abuse, lobbying, guessing, etc.?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44964	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44965	Thank you very much, Mrs. Selak Rasdic, for your questions. It is not my intention to nominate the names of low-building companies that could do more significant projects here, however, let me inform you that ten days ago I participated in the signing of a contract for the construction of one of the larger agglomerations in the North of Croatia, the company Radnik from the Cross will be a dominant contractor. I think that's enough, at least for this part of the answer. As regards the answer to question two and three, you are talking about the cars Rimac and the Car Rimac or the project of the Bio-refinery plant in the Sisak area in the implementation of INA are recognised as projects of exceptional importance in the direction of digitisation. The Rimac project is ultimately recognized, i.e. the Rimac Automobile and at European level, and biorefinery in the context of biofuel transition.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44966	Thank you. Mr. Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44967	Thank you. As I can see from the end of the replica to the opening presentation, we now have a summary of the draft debate, and then Mr. Coric is now playing the draft of the Prime Minister's Summary, Mr. Radin, and so I am playing a summary of myself to be honest. So this is one debate that had to be held because we told Europe that we would be able to hold it, but then maybe we could be useful enough that we have ministers here so we can ask them something because the plan includes everything. Mr. Minister, how will you solve the problem you have succeeded in causing these regulations that have been lifted by your Constitutional Court? So, even such a Constitutional Court couldn't defend, and it's been defending things lately, as we can see, these regulations that you managed to bring together both left and right to write a constitutional suit and here it appears to have been adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44968	Summary I'm sorry, in summary, you were on time even had three more seconds, thank you for your patience. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Here's your answer. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44969	I'll answer him.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44970	To whom? Injury of the Rules of Procedure, and I apologize. Here you go, Mr. Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44971	Thank you very much. My colleague Bauk hurt Article 238 again, but if that's the case, then you're the one who's been missing all day, so I don't know if he's sick, but if I apologize to him, it's just not appropriate for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44972	In summary, you have a warning. Here you go, Mr. Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44973	Due to Croatian public, counterpart Pavic, a colleague of the Grbin has a death in the family.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44974	Also a summary warning. Here you go, Mr. Davor Ivo Stier. What's the answer? There's no answer there, no.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44975	Not on the previous one, all right.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44976	No, no, on the line. Whoever answers, and on the line, I'm sorry, you're right, you're right, you're right. Mr. Pavić, who, who has the replica?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44977	So let me respond to Mr. Bauk's replica even though I said it wasn't necessary probably she was shown because of this first part of the replica. What I would like to point out is the fact that the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development received a reply from the Constitutional Court or the Constitutional Court's solution and that we are happy with the fact that a whole series of provisions of the regulation and the Constitutional Court have been assessed as a positive step. What I certainly want to inform you is that in the coming weeks, the new Waste Management Act or amendments to the Waste Management Act will be presented to the Croatian Assembly and I believe that these provisions will remove all obstacles to the waste management system in the Republic of Croatia and continue to develop as we wish, and we want a clean and clean nature and environment in the Republic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44978	Thank you, too. Here you go, Mr. Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44979	Thank you, Vice President. Mr. Minister, here's what I'd like to remind you of is being offered by the intervention and colleagues of Bauk about what the government has delivered, has not delivered, etc., that we have a special law that regulates the government's relationship and parliament over European affairs and we've discussed it, will be remembered by counterpart Bauk because he was also a representative during my 7th term. There were then proposals that perhaps some documents and some procedures would require parliament's approval, but then the ruling majority led by the SDP rejected such a single proposal and set up a system like we have today. We can debate to change this system but then, of course, we should team up differently, perhaps the Croatian Parliament, but here is the historical truth, and I think it is necessary to remind how the relations between parliament and government are regulated and when such legislation is passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44980	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44981	Thank you very much Mr Stier on your replica, yes, so this draft summary before the Republic of Croatia is on the initiative of the Government of the Republic of Croatia because we have held that it is necessary for the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia and the representatives to receive information in which direction and how the Government of the Republic of Croatia sees the direction of recovery or strengthening the recovery and resilience of the Republic of Croatia in the coming years. Finally, the implementation of the programme, i.e. the investment from this National Recovery and Resistance Plan, goes a little further than the mandate of this government, Mr Plenkovic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44982	Mr. Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44983	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, Vice-President of the Assembly, here's a commendation that exactly the National Recovery and Resistance Programme 47% is going to digital transition, green transition, 26% on digital transition, that's a lot more than we had to give. It is very important to clarify therefore that almost a third goes into direct support, but this document is related to the reform programme and what Brussels expects us to do and this is only the first quarter of the money. I'd also like to tie myself to water projects and commend the ministry. We know that, according to the Water Framework Directive, we have to end agglomerations and purifiers, I believe that there will be great penalties if we don't pay and just those who criticise why it's in there I believe that it will call 2022, 2023, the first government why we pay for the penalty. So this is a chance to build And 95% of the funds will end up in the economy [[Intruder: Thank you.]] except 500 million kunas for the doctor's specialization. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44984	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44985	Thank you very much Mr. Pavic for your replica, that part of this plan, the National Resilience and Recovery Plan, is dedicated to water-communal projects. It is a huge business that the Republic of Croatia entered 7-8 years ago, building agglomerations, but the biggest momentum in these agglomeration works has actually been done in the past few years by the government of Mr Plenkovic. Of course, in this plan of resilience and recovery, we have foreseen certain agglomerations or some of the agglomerations for realization, of course, with the idea that it must be about projects whose documentation has been obtained so that we can go into realisation as soon as possible. It also provides for public water supply projects because we want to bring to all households in the Republic of Croatia in the coming period the possibility of joining the public water supply network. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44986	Mr. Price.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44987	Dear Ministers are obviously preparing the EU with this plan and with these means of getting out of the crisis, which will be the consequences of the coronary epidemic. We can only hope that the government will make good use of these funds, unfortunately they have not always been so fast and have not, of course, taken full advantage of the funds. What I am interested in, in the event that the money that will enter the Croatian economy from this Recovery Plan will result, it will be certain that one smaller amount of that money will end up through taxes and other state revenues will end up in the budget. Do you have an estimate of how much money this would be and whether you plan to use that money to cut taxes because, at the end of the day when we see, unfortunately, the problems that were with subsidies, the various corruptions, the ineffectiveness of state-owned companies, however, proved that the economy that was taxed still contributes best to recovery.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44988	Thank you. Thank you. Time. Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44989	Thank you very much, Mr. Prosecution Story, for your replica, and I can no longer disagree with you on the fact that the economy is what generates added value, in fact, the most contributes to economic recovery and economic growth, therefore, there is nothing disputed. What should certainly be kept in mind is that each spent kuna through this Recovery and Resistance Plan carries the tax expenditure that is on it and they will, of course, be the income of the state budget or the budget of the unit of local self-government if we talk about some specific aspects, for example, income tax in new employment. All this will allow for sure in the next period of further tax discharge. You know that for the past four years, we've stepped significantly in that direction, I believe it will be possible to continue. Of course, depending on the rates of economic growth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44990	Thank you. Mr. Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44991	Dear Minister, this summary of the digitisation plan mentions about 150... If I am not mistaken and you are probably aware that this digital transition and digitisation will also generate new jobs or generate new jobs in these jobs, they will seek new "skills". [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I proposed to the prime minister earlier, he ignored it, I don't know why, to try to define it by sectors or by industry how many new places are planned to generate in these individual sectors, or industries, in order to create a plan of education for these new people with new interests, with new titles. Namely, these "skills" can't get through the night and if we make a plan of schooling, enrolment of children in high school, enrolment in colleges, in 2 years, in 3 years we'll have people ready to work in those jobs. As ready as they are, they won't be 100% because they have more practice, but they'll be more ready, so please consider it and consider it. In the course of further... [[Thank you very much. Time. Thank you.]] Thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44992	Excuse me, Mr. Minister, just a moment, please stop... Mr. Hrelja, Mr. Grmoy, Mr. Zekanovic, please continue to talk outside because you are disturbing, especially Mr. Pavic before, I saw you interrupting the back, please. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you. Mr. Zekanovic agrees. Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44993	Thank you very much for the opportunity to respond to Mr. Pavic's replica. Mr Pavić, these are really interesting and constructive themes and the direction in which the Croatian economy is definitely going, and the labour market is also the direction of new technologies, and it must respect the fact that Europe and the world are changing precisely in this direction that you have stated, the digitisation of the process and the new occupations that arise from day to day. This direction is unquestioned independently of the Recovery Plan, however, along with this Plan and with an increase in investment, i.e. the investment capacity resulting from it, it will be somewhat faster. I am sure that on HZZ, and then in their communication with the Ministry of Education, because they run a curricula, or they make up a curricula, there will be an interaction that will then carry new programming frameworks. Without that, it won't work. I agree with you here.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44994	Thank you very much. I see, no more replicas. Thank you. So let's move on with, let's move on with the clubs. Now it's the Advocacy Bridge Club, Mr. Troscott's first, and then as far as I can tell, ma'am. Selak Rasudic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44995	Dear vice president of HS, respected MPs and MPs and respected citizens of the Republic of Croatia who follow us through the screen. As far as this programme itself is concerned, we let Mr. Prime Minister present his facts today, however, a lot of what was said was either hidden or unsaid, and actually should be said. Under number 1, therefore, the EU's strongest economies are very much discussing the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, if we have a case of one Poland that has been discussing such an important programme for months now, is the result that Poland is one of the strongest economic countries within the EU. So the fact that we are discussing this 2 weeks before the fact that we need to hand over all of the 30.4. documents to withdraw funds because the only question is that it will be respected from all of these things that we are going to discuss today is the fact that we are in the last place of the EU by all economic indicators. And he's not here pointing fingers at anyone, he's here sending an appeal. So let's remember 30.6 last year, as the Club of Representatives of the Mosta, we only sent an appeal to send an extension of the moratorium to protect agricultural land so that the rest of the EU countries would not buy us land. That's what we're doing right now. So here the government of the Republic of Croatia, together with its economic guru, Mr. Ćorić, Mr. Savic, etc., remained alone in this programme because the EU said more money should go to the private sector, said Celine Gauer, who is otherwise the director of the implementation of the National Recovery Plan and Resistance at EU level, the social partners, the Economic Institute of Zagreb, criticised this programme and said that this is further financing of state infrastructure, and therefore later, the affair, the Association of Entrepreneurs, the Croatian Employers' Association disagreed with this proposal because it requires 50% to go to the private sector, associations of entrepreneurs, independent economic analysts, so this proposal we read today, only confirmed the economists who are tied to our government, no one else. As regards the contracted funds, 2014 to 2018, this is now a revised scenario where 51% of the funds were invested in state-owned companies and budget users. When you look at the chart, it's the same thing. 56% of the economy, what does that mean? That's the same thing. So reinvestment in infrastructure and mathematics is worth a very simple kuna invested in the private sector, giving 4 kn return, kuna invested in the public sector, giving the kuna a refund if the funds are effectively used. We don't use them effectively. And then we have tax hikes, burdens, and additional burdens on both local and national levels. 800 million euros from the agreed EU funds from 2014 to 2018, do you know where it went? In Croatian roads and HZ infrastructure. Where is this economic growth we're talking about and where has it been, where is it? He's gone. 7% were invested in private companies, small businesses. We saw a report on the support of the state of the Republic of Croatia, so there was a reduction in investment in... reducing investment in small and medium-sized enterprises, so who's going to finance us? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is a classic example here of what we're looking at today, Crowding out entrepreneurs or pushing entrepreneurs out. So we've been pushing him out, pushing them out of HGK, it's an anti-enterprise climate, an anti-frontier, where a message has been sent to craftsmen that they're the only contagion spreaders. So, while the rest of them were all open and doing type shopping centers, the caterers were closed. The anti-market climate or anti-market message will therefore be refinanced by the state apparatus, customerelism will be refinanced and we are funding again today, already existing, today we are financing the affairs that will take place in a year and entrepreneurs are those who are generators of growth. While the economic guru associated with the government, Mr. Coric, Mr. Savic and the others, when they talk about investment in entrepreneurs, you know what that means? Investment in subsidising interest which is very low now in the capital market. That's what the guru say. And you know what Denmark and Italy do? They invest 50 to 70% of the capital investment funds, where they work their own dumping, okay, nobody agrees with the dumping market perspective but when the EU already gives money, then invests in entrepreneurs or those growth generators that will get you out of this situation. And why does it matter? So after a few years when we find ourselves in a situation with the Danes and the Italians, we will be uncompetitive towards them. So our proposal is to invest 50% of the money in private businesses, in the private sector as ordered by the EU, as other countries have realised it will be the only way out of this crisis. We've made five suggestions that might still be touching Mrs. Devereaux. Selak Rasudiæ, concrete but here again, so here's the concrete, so let's put them back into the diagnostics, for example, where local diagnostics will help, therefore, workers, unwarranted sick leave, so to return them to the labour market, which will increase the aggregate offer, we will increase GDP. Only with one quality investment where expansions to the production capacities are real digitisation. Here, so much for me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44996	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44997	I'm going to end up with one concrete example of what was wrongly implemented in this project and then I'm going to move on to concrete proposals once again, so at least we can fix this summary in a way that makes it a quality document for future generations. A project of optimization of local and regional self-government was launched in 2018. In 2018, we boasted of this optimism, signed the project, and put great hopes into it. Recently, the biggest indicator of the success of this project, the failed public procurement worth 10 million kn for the project and the complainant had to be paid 45 000 kn out of the ministry's pocket, or Croatian citizens. This same project, which in 2 years did not implement itself, but failed to make the most regular public procurement, has now been implemented in the summary of this project. This, a key document for Croatia's development, must not be a place of refuge for failed projects. We need a step both in thinking and in a strategy that will enable the growth and development that we imagine. In that sense, you could spend the whole speech criticising that you did not give us a plan, that you even waved it here, but we only had fun with a summary but I would rather use it on the basis of an attempt by this summary to make five concrete proposals how to improve it so that it could be acceptable to the EU but also to allow Croatia's prosperity. The first thing to include is the processing industry. Industry 4.0 so-called the digitisation of the industry that would network the production plants and create a higher additional value. That we do not always depend on tourism, on the tourism that we are now relying on in the absence of strategic thinking, and he, apart from taking almost 20% of GDP from us, is also the industry that depends most on what the crisis will be like. Second, gender equality. Gender equality is a concept that has been completely omitted in this project and it is a necessary requirement for the EU to accept the project, so a legitimate question arises whether those who wrote this draft have even consulted the rules that are there to make it quality? But here I challenge you, gender equality isn't just a flossula that we're going to implement here and there, so we meet some standards, and here it's possible to step out, we see what about men in the healthcare system who are three times more in a way affected by the coronary crisis than women because they haven't dealt with enough prevention. We see what happens to men in higher education who are lagging behind and we see what is happening to the current problems of wage imbalances from the glass ceiling that concern women and here we can be managers of new positive policies. You're talking about digital personal, introduce and create preconditions for electronic voting by taking this as an opportunity to democratisation society. In education not only follow dogmatic floscules such as STEM areas but open space to dialogue between STEM areas and humanities in order to join the trend of interdisciplinaryism with modern educational processes. In the end, social policy. It is hardly a word here and social cohesion is one of the EU's demands. Where shelters are, violence rises 40% in this crisis, where there are other positive examples of how to improve social care systems so as not to have problems that concern the whole Croatian public. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44998	Thank you very much. Mr Tomislav Ćorić will have five minutes on behalf of the promoter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u44999	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. So let me brief you on the logic behind all national recovery plans at EU level. These national recovery plans are based primarily on the European Green Plan agenda presented in December 2019. and thus promote, above all, investment that will allow for the further development of entrepreneurship and strengthening of resilience, as well as the economic recovery of the EU. What they do not promote does not promote the proportions of funds in private or public. The national recovery plans have first and foremost as a priority to promote reform processes and through public investments to enable private entrepreneurship to develop in all its segments. Parts of these national plans can also be used in support of entrepreneurial initiatives or projects that, as such, promote green or digitally, so EU technological transformation towards a low-carbon economy as a priority and a green agenda, which is thus set up by the President of the European Commission von der Leyen and her team. There is no doubt and there is no alternative, in fact, what an alternative must exist is a flat-rate assessment of things that actually have nothing to do with economic logic, which are very often heard in public space, as well as in what way you quote semi-phrases or fragments of phrases of famous economists and speaking big words. Unfortunately, this is very often a practice in the idea that comprehensive documents, or plans, are criticised and in no way are given a chance to implement them. That's why we think this National Recovery and Resistance plan will be able to escape. Why? Because it is a document that brings more and more growth rates to the Republic of Croatia, but also billions of kunas to support the private sector and through financial instruments, and through grants it carries the ability to grow productivity or concreteity of the Croatian economy, especially in the manufacturing part of the economy. This national plan should not be seen in itself or as an isolated element of economic and all other policies of the Republic of Croatia. Why? Because at this point as we speak in this assembly, we have in action, or in the implementation of the Operational Programme Competitiveness and Cohesion. At the moment as we discuss here, a new Operational Program is being programmed, or new operational programs. In a few days, the Croatian public will learn about the new competition precisely for raising technological levels and expanding capacity in the processing industry worth billions and 100 million kuna. So the idea is that all our strategic documents are harmonised, the idea is that we know clearly what we want, and we want more economic growth rates in the Republic of Croatia and the long-term sustainable development of our country, with an increase in the quality of our citizens' lives. The restoration of this National Recovery and Resistance Programme with the standard elements of economic and other policies will bring it forward. For the very end, you probably saw, but interesting data for February this year, and in the context of our recovery and resilience. Production growth or industrial production in the Republic of Croatia was estimated among the largest in February of this year by European statistics. Handsome intro in every other debate about what and how we should do and how and how to improve production as a serious segment of our economy because without it we actually can't. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45000	Thank you. You have several replicas, Mrs. Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45001	I hope, however, that the hearing will be found for these five proposals that we have cited to you in a constructive manner to provide together a summary that will greatly determine the future of our generations. Some of them will be reminded and should be respected because EU demands are also like gender equality, and the processing industry is the only thing that can allow us to grow in the long term. But using arguments like digital and green which are the demands of this plan doesn't mean that they are pausing them all over the plan by inventing incomprehensible syntagms such as digitising the ethical system of civil servants. Please, what is an ethical system that digitizes? So there can be some minimum ethical code to be followed rather than digitized. Or the green transition of the tourism eco system. It's a notion of withdrawing money. We need a serious and sustainable plan that can be understood, not some vague floscule.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45002	Thank you. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45003	Thank you very much for the replica, ma'am. Selak Rasudic. On the subject of digitisation in the public administration segment, I believe you'll have a chance to talk to the Minister of Justice. As regards digitisation as a process, you are likely to know independently of the level of economic knowledge, that the digitalisation process usually carries an increase in the efficiency of any of the processes, namely productivity and productivity, or the competitiveness of the one that is digitized. If we're talking about the processing industry, I've just referred you to a competition that will come out next week past the NPO and that will improve the competitiveness of our processing industry. As far as your proposals are concerned, one of them is an electronic vote. I am not sure how it will increase resistance or recovery of the Republic of Croatia, however, I believe that you will be able to explain it in the coming days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45004	Mr. Grmoya.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45005	Dear Minister Čorić, you have once again explained that a little of this is clear to you, if you do not understand how this electronic vote, in order to facilitate it, means that people are carrying out those and duties and rights they have in Croatian society, one of them is the right to vote, in order to improve both processes and everything else that happens in Croatian society. Just as you don't understand how the Economic Institute, the Association The Voice of Entrepreneurs, the HUP that this NPO is bad, is actually going to develop maybe two branches, the construction sector, the IT industry, and that construction sector that's connected to you, so you're going to re-as you're in a club so far, you're going to agree on who's going to do a certain job.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45006	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45007	Thank you very much, Mr. Grmoy, for your replica, given that she had three segments. So, in the national plan, we have indeed focused on raising the level of competitiveness of the Croatian economy, the electronic vote that you and your political option are promoting, we do not consider it crucial. As for this last moment that you cited the construction sector as one of the sectors benefiting from this plan, all segments of the Croatian industry will profit from this plan. I will warn you of the fact that the basic part of this plan, part of it is intended for the economy in its component and green transition, is primarily for manufacturing industries, which does not include the construction sector. But I'm not sure that you at the Mosta Club distinguish that distinction because most of the exposure I've had the opportunity to hear from your economic experts, unfortunately, it convinces me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45008	Mr. Demetlika.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45009	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, we keep talking and you assure us that through this recovery and resilience plan we will strengthen the manufacturing industry. I'm going to ask you a specific proposal, in the program stands by d C, point C 1.4 R 2 15, supply of freight wagons. I think it's about 270 cars. I ask the question, is it smarter to get and because it will certainly be cheaper on the market, I don't know, Russian, Hungarian or Czech instead of investing additional funds in Djuro Djakovic, to enable him to be more competitive, more efficient, in line with green policies, but to invest in this particular manufacturing industry funds rather than in some public infrastructure works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45010	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45011	So I will repeat once again, Mr. Demetlika, that in component C1 the largest part of the component is just aimed at horizontal support for the domestic manufacturing sector, both through grants, so primarily through financial instruments and in this context Đuro Đakovic and any other company in the Republic of Croatia from the segment of industry, can find its place with its projects. This is what I can say and I can assure you that regardless of this plan, the Ministry's policy and we prove it once again I have said to our work in recent years, but I am holding responsibility for it, or I am wearing the past 6.7 months, every competition will go right in the direction, or we will insist precisely on this direction to strengthen the processing industry. That's what we can do, we have to, and we want to do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45012	Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. It's a pulac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45013	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, you said here that the aim of this NPO is economic growth, whether, and development, but here's how previous colleagues said, employers' associations, first of all say that they did not participate in the process of making this document as social partners and it was in some way a duty to involve them and then ask questions after that, so that until economic growth when only through this component of the economy it is actually visible that these 54% ultimately investment is primarily in the public sector or infrastructure. Here, how do we get to economic growth through investment in public infrastructure? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45014	Thank you, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45015	Thank you very much, MP Puljak on your replica. So our idea is very clear, i.e. to explain briefly. Economic growth would also be achieved by investing the total amount in the public sector. Therefore, according to the spending method of calculating GDP, each of these kunas that will be invested in the Croatian economy and go in any direction, will produce GDP growth, however, of course it is not how and how this money will be spent, which is why I would point you to the fact that paragraph C 1.1 of this plan, therefore the first item in the part of the economy of more than 6 billion kn intended exclusively, once again to support entrepreneurship or to support the real sector in terms of both the financial instruments and the grants. So sustainable development is our goal above all.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45016	Thank you. Mrs. Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45017	Dear Vice President, Your Honor. So here's the plan when you look at 54% in the economy, what I'm particularly intrigued by is this measure and component C1.3, which is investment in the water economy and waste management, but we have to say that here's an example in Croatia of the recycling rate of household waste is 25.3%, which is significantly below the EU average of 46% and that municipal waste is delayed as much as 66% in landfills while in the EU is 22%. You are a witness to the problems that were happening and happening in this segment, that for example for 10 years my county had to start an investment at all despite having the documents on time just because has not been taken into account or has been obstructed in previous governments by the development of this. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45018	Thank you. Minister, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45019	Thank you very much, Mrs. Peric, for your question. Therefore, Croatia has faced a whole series of challenges over the past few decades, some of them relating to the construction of a water infrastructure or its inaccessibility in part of our region. On the other hand, we are also faced with the need to build an efficient waste management system in the Republic of Croatia. It's not a task that's not easy, in the end, our government is not the first government to deal with this business. For the past ten years, efforts have also been shown through programming, and through the implementation of projects, but in the last four years focus has indeed been on building a waste management system, bearing witness to the fact that some of the centres have finally started to build, one of them is in your county. On the other hand, the water-communal infrastructure or the sewerage system of public water supply are indeed priorities that we must insist on, regardless of the envelope, so it will also be in this envelope of the National Recovery and Resistance Plan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45020	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. Let's move on with the representatives' clubs. The club of representatives of HSLS and Reformist, first Mrs. Martincevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45021	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues. In the public not only the politically colored we see a whole series of comments, mostly critical of the summary of the plan of recovery and resilience as well as the process of its production. We have no doubt that most of it is well-intentioned, certainly every comment is welcome and certainly everyone from their point of view has an argument for his observations. However, all of us citizens of Croatia are aware that decisions on the direction of this money, which represents 12% of our GNI that should be spent over the next few years, as well as responsibility for the implementation of policy projects and measures at the end of the government. Often there are criticisms, so let's just remind ourselves of the biggest project in Croatia's history, and these are Croatian highways without which there would be no Croatian tourism today, which 20% of our GDP has been constantly challenged by the key idea that money could be spent on the paneds and better and there will always be such discussions. But we now need to decide on this program, aware that whatever the size of the money we receive will not and cannot solve all the problems we face, which is because of the pandemic, but also because of a whole series of our structural weaknesses. I would like to underline some of the policy, measures and projects mentioned in the programme, but I would also like to suggest that we now foresee their additional empowerment through the use of the regular European budget that brings us more than twice as much funding. In the economic segment, I stress the need to form a guarantee fund for incentives and investment and crafts, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. It is a model set by the Varazdin County, however, of course not enough, it is not enough and therefore it is crucial that the state stand behind it, and there is also a particular importance for the formation of funds for our exporters that are the key levers of our economy. As far as waste is concerned, we, as a party, are strongly committed to decentralisation of the state, but when we talk about the availability of waste, there is a need for a central state decision on the construction of three or four burn plants. In this programme, we can read only some half-determination without a clear strategy to complete the waste management process. This cannot be decided by local self-government units, they do not have sufficient financial capacity, and often neither knowledge nor ability to address this problem that exceeds their overall capacity. See the Varazdin case, so 100,000 tons of garbage at the entrance to Varazdin for 10 years plus a few charges, convictions, etc. on the subject. In the part of agriculture which is unquestionably one of our greatest economic potentials and the chance of developing small, medium and large entrepreneurship, the first and most important reform is certainly the cohesion of agricultural land. In fact, only 1.2% of agricultural regiments have more than 20 hectares of land, and estimated rounding costs per hectare are 15,000 kuna. This clearly tells us that it is necessary to provide resources for a significant investment in the start of the process of cohesion. All that's mentioned in this program can and should be upgrades, but precisely this key reform, which is a commission. For us in the north, another important topic is tourism, I stress the development potential of continental tourism with an emphasis on rural and especially health tourism. And there, of course, except for messages from the general type, it would be good to prepare a clearly developed programme of incentives and measures in this segment of continental tourism. As far as digital transition is concerned, there's a lot to talk about. It is one of the basic and key messages and the entire wallets for the next period, but it is of course quite clear that without the support of the state, really covering the area outside of the natural urban areas with broadband networks will not be possible. Education, in education in Croatia, we talk a lot. Unfortunately, we're still doing a lot less. Croatia remains at the bottom of the European test results, so far below the European average. We're in math, for example. Two times worse than the European average. At the same time, Varazdin County is the only European centre of excellence for working with talented children in Croatia and has twice as many results as the rest of Croatia. How is that possible? The Varazdin County has 96% of children in one-way follow-up, 2 times the Croatian average. It is this one-way course that enables the work of centres of excellence as well as a full-time stay for children. We welcome the fact that the government recognized this model of the Varazdin County and implemented it into this programme. And lastly, when it comes to the health programme, if it is a natural part of the post-pidemic program, I would refer to the investments that the programme foresees and which include 3 levels. An example of one of the first approved projects in this programme is the construction of a new central operating block in Varazdin that looks like this. So 200 million buildings, 200 million equipment and 130 million funding medical specialization. Why am I stressing this? So one of the key thesis that's going through the debate about this program is why we invest in buildings. So, without basic infrastructure and secured basic conditions, and these are spaces, whether they're schools, whether they're hospitals, whether they're homes for older and powerless, and they're all buildings, you don't have the possibility to upgrade the content. So, no one-way classes, no centres of excellence, no whole-day stay if you don't have school and no equipment and no devices and specialization for doctors if you don't have hospital space. Everyone who idealises European projects, and the Varazdin County best in Croatia for 3 years understands this and therefore we strongly support this part of the programme. This programme is well set but in order not to stay, which today has been a great list of good wishes this government will have to assume as an assumption of its realisation to gain courage and determination to implement serious reforms.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45022	Mr. Klasic. It's a chronometer, don't worry. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45023	Here, respected vice president of the assembly, respected ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, the intention of the proposed plan is comprehensive but the plan should certainly introduce business association requirements to increase the direct share of the private sector in the National Recovery and Resistance Programme. However, it is also crucial to satisfy horizontal topics, which are green and digital transitions and, in addition, the key role of reforms that must be far more ambitious because this is the only real way to free our economy from the frames of renting that dominates the public sector and parts of the private sector that are against competition. Especially since this is about money from European taxpayers who are given to our country for accelerated development, and in return for strong reforms are expected. When it comes to the private sector, it can vary the direct giving to private entrepreneurs from indirect benefits through public procurement in certain public investments and the indirect horizontal benefit for the competitiveness of the economy after certain reforms are realised. When it comes to public investment, it is necessary to support strong investment in rail infrastructure towards the north of Croatia and Rijeka, which is one of the main roles of the state to help increase labour market mobility and reduce environmental pollution and competitiveness of the economy itself. I would also highlight the security and quality management of water resources, and I see that this is highlighted in the programme to reduce the loss and increase the availability of water to citizens who are extremely important in the part of the water development plan, communal infrastructure is crucial for the smooth development of all parts of Croatia and as a prerequisite for the development of the economy as a whole. In fact, it's a shame to lose 50% of the water in the public health system, and this plan actually intends to reduce that loss to an acceptable 30%. And here we must not allow an example of the poor management of the water economy that has also spent the city administration of Zagreb where we have seen that this is badly realised if it has not been supervised where the public water network of the City of Zagreb is worse than 20 years ago, despite the fact that the City of Zagreb has owed 2.1 billion kuna to us today in the City of Zagreb we may already be faced tomorrow that 1/4 inhabitants of the capital will not have the opportunity, access to quality drinking water. When it comes to private investment, I stress the importance of investment in research and innovation, automation, artificial intelligence, digital transformation of Croatian entrepreneurs. Mostly we can finance it through digitalisation vouchers in that segment. However, it should be noted with caution that the increase in the share of public investment in total investments and the subsidy methodically reduce the level of economic freedom. Therefore, a sustainable balance of private and public investment is important, and any money must be ultimately linked to the implementation of reforms whose benefit for the economy is not through direct support but through the creation of a better institutional framework. Croatia has until '26 to take advantage of the opportunity to further and stronger improve the regulatory framework for business, and to continue deregulation of strong country digitisation and to launch State property including network sectors, energy and transport. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45024	Thank you very much. And now, on behalf of the proposing minister, Ms Natasa Tramišak, Minister of Regional Development and EU funds, will have five minutes of his speech, possibly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45025	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected parliamentary representatives, although today we are talking about a new mechanism, an EU instrument, therefore a mechanism for recovery and resilience, a completely new means created by the global pandemic of the coronary virus, and this is a common European response to the recovery and resilience of both the economies of the EU Member States and, of course, the health system, the education system, but it also fully means the restoration of the entire society. In addition to this mechanism and the instrument, it is important to mention that the Republic of Croatia will have a total of EUR 24.5 billion in the coming period in 2021-2027, resulting from negotiations that took place at the end of July last year. And what the EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds is doing at the moment is important for you to point out and I see it by a lot of comments and proposals from different projects, it is precisely programming EU cohesion policy. The EU's cohesion policy for a new period through several funds, i.e. a more fund-based approach, is available to €9.1 billion. From this, according to the various funds, the funds are equally available to re-investment in the economy and entrepreneurship in accordance with the thematic concentrations, objectives and logic of the EU and the public sector, and specifically further strengthening the capacities of the health system, the education system, the resolution of water utility infrastructure, road or transport connections, and all other problems that we still have infrastructure. I would also remind here that when we talk about the various funds from which these funds are available for the Republic of Croatia, of course, the most issued fund of that investment fund, the European Regional Development Fund, it is worth EUR 5.3 billion, the European Social Fund plus we are talking about EUR 2 billion, an additional Cohesion Fund of around EUR 1.5 billion, of which around EUR 364 million is related to the Connecting Europe Facility. In addition, we are at our disposal the European Territorial Cooperation Fund EUR 186 million and the Just Transition Fund, which is also very important in the transition to a low carbon economy. The basis for using these programmes is programming documents, partnership agreements and operational programmes. It is important here to highlight that more than 300 different members are involved in the development of all documents together with the EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds, the involvement of Croatian employers' associations, the Academy of Science and Arts, all relevant offices for relations with the civil sector, civil society, but of course also representatives of local and regional levels. So I expect this document to outline the activities and measures to be implemented in the next 9 years. which will be made available equally to everyone and we take care of balanced territorial development. It is important to further highlight when we talk about investment and investment opportunities in this new programming period, especially the economy, that what follows us is the creation of a smart specialisation strategy. Here we are talking primarily about regional strategies. We know that Croatia is divided into 4 NUTS-2 regions, so we have already started and in a short period end the Plan of Industrial Transition of Pannonian Croatia that will include key economic branches, investment in agriculture, food industry, development of wood industry, metallurgical industry, of course EST and tourism, but also get hold of this which is the most important industrialisation 4.0 where Croatia simply has to catch the stopper in everything. As I mentioned at NUTS-2 level, the region is finally effectively addressed to all investment needs based on the region. It is important to further say when we talk about the development of the economy, and mentioned before me and co-worker Ćorić, that the first call is ready and will be called in the next week, tied right into the manufacturing industry, these are the means of the additional this instrument mechanism... 150 million Euros are being put into a call for entrepreneurs immediately this year. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45026	Thank you very much. You've got a few replicas, Mrs. President. Boška Ban Vlahek.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45027	Dear Minister, you mention projects, however, we have no insight into concrete projects. The public mentions only two, the reconstruction of the Sisak Refinery and the project of research and development of Mate Rimca. Apparently, these projects, concrete projects, were developed in this big document. But if these are projects that are only mentioned through this summary, as mentioned, investment in railways, public sector wage reform, smart agriculture or digitalisation in agriculture, which is exactly the same, then it is quite clear that concrete projects that could stimulate economic growth and competitiveness actually do not exist in this document. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45028	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45029	Dear MPs, what I can tell you is that when I talk about concrete projects, especially investment in entrepreneurship, so the entire economic sector, and you know that this is subject to certain rules and elements of state support, that for those support of any individual project, public calls or certain notifications and approval by the European Commission when it comes to a major project must be made. You also mentioned the Rimac project, I think it is quite well mentioned here and the project which has received consent or has been notified to the European Commission on EUR 120 million to grant state aid related to the project related to the production of battery systems where the company participates with other 12 Member States and 42 partners, so it is another major project that will be implemented from this operational period until 2020 and continues in 2021-2027. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45030	Mr. Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45031	Dear Minister, here you have boasted of the EUR 1 billion that Croatia should receive. I've been listening to that story for a year and two months, 14 months already, and Andrej Plenkovic boasted with billions of EUR, and when he said it for the first time in February last year it was a thrill, a euphoria, now we're going to get a billion, so he repeated it in March, in April, today is April, and now you just tell me clearly how much we've received from those 22.5 billion euros in these 14 months, how much did we get?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45032	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45033	Dear Parliamentarian Zekanovic, when we talk about these EUR 24.5 billion, it differs in the prices of 2018 if these current prices, we are talking about current prices that apply, what is important to mention that this is the year of programming. Only after all these programmes are adopted will the Republic of Croatia use these funds. You mention what if I go back a year or seven years ago, we're talking about the amount of 10.7 billion euros that the Republic of Croatia had at its disposal, we're still using those funds by 2023. and nearly five billion more euros is in the project implementation process. In order to implement the projects and the money previously paid, it was necessary to carry out the procedures and negotiate projects. We are now at 116% of the agreement, 52% of the payment and almost 42% of the certification to the European Commission. This dynamic will bring us closer to 100% usage in 2023. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45034	Mrs. Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45035	Thank you very much. Your Honors Minister. I will refer to the part where you talked about withdrawing funds from EU funds, and I will remind you that the HDZ government has just raised the contract from very low to 115% in the last four years and payments from 1% to 50%. For the comparison of SDPs, the government raised the contract from zero to a modest 6% in two years, while payments remained barely above zero. Similarly, Oreshkovic's government has raised the agreement from 6 to about 9 or so, and payments to less than 1 and this is the result of these two governments over the past three years. And that's exactly what we should compare to four years of this government and indeed say and stress that we have been able to compensate both incompetence and inadequacy of the previous two governments, but also the delay which unfortunately came upon all of us both in terms of agreement and payment. And somehow I can't, if I don't stress the fact that they did their shares right, we wouldn't be in this situation today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45036	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45037	Thank you. Dear MPs, it's exactly how you listed it, so it's good to do it again. We are currently on 95 billion kunas of contracted projects, of which more than 51 billion kuna has already been realised and certified by the Commission 42 billion kuna. The dynamics we've set up and accelerated all processes, and I can say here in the last six to eight months, we're recording 10% of the rise, if we continue with this dynamic, which is in our plan, we'll be doing it by the end of 2023. in the period to which we can use the means to get closer to those 100% usability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45038	Mr. Davor Ivo Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45039	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister. Our citizens are most certainly interested in how this plan will relate to improving their standard of living and therefore allow me a more local question about Samobor City, and I know that you also care about it. I recently saw that you were in a meeting with Mrs. Niko Fleiss, who was with Minister Butkovic, for example. discussed the issue of the railway to Samobor, and with you about other projects that can be financed from this plan, is this a question, for example, health care therefore matters which are either in the jurisdiction of the city or in the jurisdiction of the county, so as to explain to our citizens how this plan is specifically here and in the case of Samobor City can apply.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45040	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45041	Dear Parliamentarian, therefore, when we talk about investment in rail infrastructure, we must mention, however, that the European Commission itself has also indicated in this recovery mechanism and the resilience to follow us for a decade of railways. In fact, they have also opened the way in their regulation to invest funds in further improving rail infrastructure. I believe that if this project in the recovery and resilience plan was not ready to be realized, certainly now and with the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure, it is taken care of programming 2021-2027 in order to start these projects and Samobor get the railway line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45042	Mr. Tulio Demetlika.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45043	Thank you. Your Honor, Madam Minister. You're such a nice school teacher, you've explained everything to us, but what we're missing, we're missing concrete numbers and concrete data. In fact, none of the government's representatives mentioned any deadlines today, so this fund was designed by the EU to develop the economy quickly and efficiently and recover it. Is it true that by the end of 2022 We need to arrange 70% of those 70% that are non-refundable and do you think that after the 4th month when we submit this to Brussels that we will be able to implement this with our public procurement procedures, by calling for tenders, and will all these investments that you have proposed in the public sector by 31 August 2026? We have seen from experience so far that we have failed.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45044	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45045	Your Honor. So here's when you say no one mentioned numbers, so I think I've mentioned a lot of numbers and I'm telling you exactly what they are, what are the percentages, what are the possibilities. What you're saying is true, this is a plan by 2026. It is also thought in the opening statement certainly and presented and made clear. The European Commission, when it started with this mechanism last year, had the plan to make the funds quickly available to the Member States, but we know that the regulation was adopted only in February of this year and that the plans can only now begin to be submitted or 30 April of this year will be sent to our plan for repair and resilience. What a dynamic and what percentages the European Commission will expect to withdraw funds will probably still be subject to agreement by the European Commission if we know that the regulation itself was actually late for the adoption of these plans.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45046	Thank you. Mr. Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45047	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, Your Honor. Today, there were few words from the MPs, and it was about agriculture and the end from which we came. The National Recovery and Resistance Plan is certainly something that can help Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem, and I am sure that not only through the Ministry of Agriculture but also regional development, we will achieve those capital projects that we have been waiting for and talking about for years, these are logistics and distribution centres, of course the construction of KBC in Osijek and of course the improvement of the water economy that is very, very much for our end. I hope with these money, these projects are going to do what may have waited for years until it's their turn and here's until they see the realisation.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45048	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45049	Thank you, dear Parliamentarian Ivanovic. It's true, yes, you saw well in the document. For agriculture or the development of agriculture, the development of the infrastructure of logistics centres for fruit and vegetables is envisaged. The funds allocated to the development of agriculture under this mechanism are taught, and we are talking from EUR 200 million. The 200 million EUR has been recognised precisely in the need of digitalisation of agriculture, logistics centres, agricultural land and here I am pleased that Osijek-Baranja County has already begun building its distribution centre for fruit and vegetables around 100 and some million kuna. So they are the first example of a project that has already begun with realisation, and the costs of this project are acceptable retroactively through the recovery and resilience mechanism because through this mechanism, this instrument, as we know all costs will be acceptable as of 1 February 2020. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45050	Mr. Marko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45051	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, dear Deputy Prime Minister, thank you very much for your presentation that you have just explained how the National Recovery and Resistance Programme and the future funding from the multiannual financial framework, where we have record funds for both. And that's exactly what's important because some things we can't finance from a multi-year financial framework as a school, but we managed to get them in and put them in the national recovery program. These funds will also be a significant stopper for the economy. We have also seen concrete projects, and you yourself have said that Campus Rimac has received from the European Commission that Croatia, together with 12 countries, has received EUR 2.9 billion so that it can win state support, and I believe that in its replica, the Greek counterpart will explain why he did not send operational programmes to the assembly at all, now regret that we do not have a complete document, and he and Milanovic's government have not sent anything when they were in power In the assembly. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45052	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45053	Dear Parliamentarian, that's true when we observe and that's true. if we return to July last year we had about EUR 12.7 billion at our disposal and that is what Croatia was counting on in the next period. Of course these, this new €6.3 billion instrument of grants certainly also means additional investment in both the economy and the public sector, and I can say that here and before you is this document that is trying to balance both of them and I believe that many projects will be able to be implemented through the same. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45054	Mr. Greek requested a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45055	If Mr. Vice President, you wouldn't want to spend yours in response to Mr. Pavic, and the answer is very clear. The answer is very clear. So, our programs, and for your not yet known, our programs were accepted at the end of 2014. For years, in the first 50% of the EU, we were. And where are you? I ask the Minister and where are you? Where are your papers? We had them at this stage of 2014, in the debate in the European Commission, yours is not even in the draft.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45056	Mr. Greek, Mr. Greek, please, I need to tell you, I need you not to continue, because I'm going to have to give you another one.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45057	Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45058	Thank you. Now it's Wait, wait a minute, wait a minute. [[Now it's me.]] Mr. Greek, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45059	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here, I have two more questions to ask the minister. First of all, you did meet with Mrs. Nick Fleise, and it seems to me that it's an extremely important thing, and it would be great if you could have a little chat with Nick Fleise, too. And the second question is, it would probably help make this programme better in the immediate future. And the second question is to be very precise, if in the past seven years you've really taken advantage of and paid 40% of the funding of around EUR 9 and something billion I'm asking you, and how much will you succeed from these 6.5 billion in the next 4 not-to-be five years? You know, it's a big deal. Mr. Pavić has no idea what the job is because he was only a three-month minister, and I've been sweating for four years to do a better job. than your government left it to our government. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45060	Thank you, thank you. The answer, Madam Minister. Please, please have a nice time. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45061	Thank you, Honorable Parliamentarian, certainly what is important may be that I return to what you mentioned in the replica. Here, we'd like to mention that, too. The operational programs are in the works. A regulation on all funds concerning new operational programmes for a new period at EU level has not yet been adopted. It is expected to be adopted in June. Our operational programs are being submitted in June. Operational programmes are being intensively programmed at the Ministry of Regional Development starting last November. There are nearly 300 members involved in the working groups, namely 293 members where they are all covered. So not only the public sector, I'm talking here and about local and regional levels, so representatives of all counties, regardless of what I'm talking about here, I'm not talking about politics and policy options, so everybody's involved. Representatives of the Association of Employers, different trade unions, civil society and what is important to mention even the Academy of Science and Arts and all have the right to participate equally in programming these documents. Furthermore, when you talk about the use of 116% 52% paid and over 42% certified and we move on. [[Intruder: Thank you, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45062	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Thank you very much, no, please, thank you, please, no, no, there's no room for dialogue like that, no, no, sorry. Mr Tulio Demetlika will speak in front of the IDS Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45063	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, the National Recovery and Resistance Plan presented to us here in this summary form and in a very general way, will, in all likelihood, be another one in a series of missed opportunities to finally make a strategic turn and boost economic growth and development in Croatia. I don't want pessimistic or sad owls, but we can see from the fact that the complete process of producing NPO was non-transparent and that no expert public was involved in this process. If you really want to come up with a quality solution that will be the basis for economic recovery, then there should be more hearing and respect for experts and for the businessmen themselves. And the prime minister himself said this morning that he wanted to achieve a wider social consensus, not that Croatia's recovery plans work in narrow political circles and adapt to the political needs of the ruling ones. We need measures that will have reform and innovation capacities and that is possible only if all interested ones are involved. From what we have heard from the ruling in recent weeks, it is obvious that the state will try to seize as much of the cake as possible while it will leave the entrepreneurs or the private sector with insufficient funds for a more serious recovery of the Croatian economy. The figure of 54% mentioned for the economy is classic data manipulation because it is obvious that most of these funds refer to the public sector or infrastructure projects that are not realised from previous funds and we are late in all. In fact, building the infrastructure does not mean that the economy will develop. We see that in Croatia in some regions, despite the lack of railways and highways, this does not affect the degree of economic development. More specifically, Istria is a real example where the state has neglected investment in infrastructure but we have found a way to be the most economically developed region. On the other hand, in certain regions, investment and construction were being invested and infrastructure developed, let's just take over 400 tonnes of industrial investments by the state in the infrastructure, and we are not there. Investment in the economy would allow the use of new technologies, an increase in productivity and the competitiveness of our exporters on the market, creating new opportunities for growth and development of long-term neglected Croatian industrial production. Strengthening the manufacturing sector with parallel digital transformation can make Croatia a desirable investment destination for investors from around the world, but in order to achieve this, it needs more wisdom in both political and economic terms than we can see today. A positive example in economic development can be Poland, which first strengthened the economy and only then infrastructure. A strong private sector allows the infrastructure to be built first and later to be maintained because each infrastructure facility requires maintenance and is not enough to build something once, but there must be economic activity that will continue to finance it. The private sector that makes this fund much faster, much more flexible, and it is certain that if these money, if a fair balance is found, is given up to 50-50, 40-60 in favour of the economy, just to strengthen that economy to be competitive. Because if a businessman has to invest in new technologies today, in the development of his production, then he will ignore and neglect workers' wages. We are fortunate today that workers cannot leave Croatia for Europe, but when the pandemic disappears, if there are not enough new jobs adequately paid, they will simply move out. And that is why Europe is offering us that opportunity. And now the question is how much our government accepts it, and it seems that the policy led by this government takes care of itself and some political points. These funds coming from Europe tomorrow will have to be returned and can only return if we have a strong and competitive economy and create new values. The funds that will focus on private sector investment, which is more flexible and faster, will certainly have significant positive effects on economic growth, employment, competitiveness. The purpose of using these measures must be to enable entrepreneurs to adapt and enable business investments towards modernisation and industry 4.0, which is also the objective of the new EU programme from 2021 to 2027. It is the only way and only proper approach to create a resilient economy. A major decline in GDP and the state of the economy that is not resistant to the crisis is the reason that the Republic of Croatia has received so much funds at its disposal. Priorities there should certainly be small and medium-sized enterprises, but we must not neglect even large companies with the potential to be a significant factor in exiting the crisis and to find the modes to encourage their development in the future, especially in the direction of investment in research and development. Our investment in research and development is only about 1% of GDP while, for example, the Czech Republic invests twice as much. Currently, our large companies, for reasons of technological lagging and the production of simple products with a lower added value, have very little productivity per employee compared to the old and good part of the new EU members, and now is exactly an opportunity for this to change in Croatia. This package helps the economy that is being provided should be used in the direction of the permanent transformation of the Croatian economy towards long-term growth because otherwise these funds will have short-term effects and in a few years we will return to a similar situation in which we are now, if not worse. An important role in the implementation of all programmes and the withdrawal of money will also be played by a state administration that has so far failed to do so. So far, the dispute has proved in the conduct of the tender, a lot of documentation is required, the procedures for running projects are complicated, the time limits for using these funds will be set very strictly, and if these deadlines are not respected, the money will remain unused. This must not happen to us, and therefore the Government must be aware of its responsibilities and strongly engage the state administration in order to avoid delays and delays. It's time to release the brake. It is necessary to have a partnership relationship with the public and private sector because it is the only way that we can successfully take advantage of the development opportunities offered to us through the recovery and resilience mechanism. In addition to this mechanism, Croatia should also use the second segment of EU funds available so far, and it should certainly look for space for public investment while this mechanism should be used to strengthen the private sector. To repeat, it is 70 billion kuna of which 45 grants, and 25 credits that are exclusively intended for recovery and resilience, thus strengthening the economy. The deadlines are also defined and 70% of grants must be agreed by the end of 2022. In my experience, I'm saying today that we don't stand a chance here. Slow administrations, public procurement regulations, endless complaints, and the question arises whether today we have a system that will be able to absorb these billions and implement numerous projects that are mentioned. The government still has a chance in these two weeks at least to sort out the gaps and shortcomings in its plan and to include primarily the economy, the private sector and all the necessary experts before sending the final version of the national recovery plan to Brussels because you do not later regret spilled milk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45064	Mr. Hrvoje Zekanovic will speak in front of the Croatian Sovereigns' Representatives' Club. On behalf of the club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45065	... Representatives, Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns. [[Specially enabled.]] Right at the beginning, there was this fellow Stier. So, we're talking about the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, a great one plan has 1,000 pages, it has 30 chapters, really these chapters are diverse, but one chapter has no, there is no one chapter, and that chapter was crucial to Andrej Plenkovic and his government and his team when he came to power. He swore in demographic restoration, demographics, youth, family, not a word, not D of demographics. I don't see it here. Strengthening the fiscal framework, preventing the prevention of corruption, the modern judiciary ready for future challenges, improving state property management, is very well managed, strengthening the framework for public procurement. So, all those who are masochists should go nicely to the Croatian Government's web pages and take down this shortened national plan or if they are very difficult masochists to take down the whole, whole version and enjoy the National Recovery and Resistance plan. The minister spoke earlier, and spoke to the respected prime minister, Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic about the billions and billions of euros we will receive. And to my question how much of that money we got, the answer is do you know how many zeros. So we didn't get any lip, or a cent of those promised EUR 24.5 billion that Andrej Plenkovic boasted about last year's 2nd month. I remember who now that first from this assembly hinted at it, then later we were there in Shubićeva in INI then he still boasted there 10 times, and then he boasted here again, so last summer, the elections passed, the fall came, there was winter, and there was nothing from money. And even he and his friend, Coric, tried to make fun of me when I told them there was no money. However, the minister had just told the respected Prime Minister that there was no money. If we're gonna win, Godspeed, but the point is, they're gone. Another important fact is that Andrej Plenkovic is not talking about, nor is Minister Maric, nor are all the other ministers, which is that we already had a membership fee of EUR 150 million, EUR 150 million and we are already paying around 650 million each year. That's not all. They didn't even say this very important fact, which is that most of this money that we're going to get is borrowed money, a large majority, and we're going to return it from 2028 to 2058. But who cares, it will bring back the grandkids or great-grandsons of Andrej Plenkovic, but it will return and your children will mean the children of those who listen to this right now. So, it's not the money donated, it's the borrowed money the EU borrowed on favourable interest, but it'll have to pay back. So, there's no money first, and the other is not a gift. Third thing, Andrej Plenkovic boasts how great we've been here. Well, of course we had a great time when we were the lamest. We are the poorest country in the EU. Dear Prime Minister, we are the poorest country in the EU. We are at the beginning of all possible scales of development in the EU. As the former Yugoslavia helped Kosovo because it was the most underdeveloped region of the former Yugoslavia, it is now helping poor Croatia, but no one is saying how much Croatia is actually giving the EU. And it gives us the workforce, we buy their products, we pay the membership fee, and then when they give us something back, then we're all happy. And that's what we need to talk about. After all, I'd like to say one more key thing here that I just asked the president of the government, so he gave me such a pathetic answer. He pointed out many times, many times pointing out that vaccination is a priority. We Croatian sovereigns are for a free decision on vaccination, whoever wants to be vaccinated, who won't have to. However, he is a great advocate of vaccination, the largest in the country and is constantly talking about this vaccination and great, it is legitimate. But what did Andrej Plenkovic do to the Croats who want to be vaccinated that they can also vaccinate national minorities to understand each other? What did he do? Nothing. Are there vaccines in Croatia? There isn't. If there are any vaccines that the Croats don't want to be vaccinated with. And then I ask him a moment ago, the Honorable Prime Minister, and what do you think he'll do about it? And nothing. Do you know what Sebastian Kurz is doing? He's just buying a million doses of Russian vaccine. You know what Orban did? He bought a Russian vaccine. What are the Slovaks doing? They're buying a Russian and Chinese vaccine. In the east, not in the Far East, but in the Middle, Near East, in nearby Serbia, you can choose which one of the Swedish tables you want, and Andrej Plenkovic is not able to provide any vaccine to those who want to be vaccinated. And then they won't say a bit of sovereignism like that, so my people are not doing well, we've failed to fully control and fight the pandemic, we've completely failed. Well, Chile, Argentina, the United States, China, you could be counting by tomorrow all the states ahead of us on that point. Yeah, my colleague Stier and Argentina are better than we are. Chile is one of the best in the world. Israel no longer has a crown, Israel numbered 30 of the population of 10 million yesterday. Why? Because he has a government that is a sovereign government, which she said we'll buy a vaccine because we think it's okay, Andrej Plenkovic thinks the same thing, but he didn't buy it. What's the problem? And then you won't hear the slightest criticism from the EU from his mouth. Even though they've already been and haven't let us out of the van and like they used to pull us out of the bus when we went to Bleiburg and re-created the borders in the EU, you won't hear a single word against EU policies because it's the EU, because it's Mom Merkel, it's Charles Michel, a big friend, and how are you gonna talk against your mom and your best friend? And is there in today's Croatian government a gram of sovereignty, a gram of sovereignty? It doesn't exist. What's the worst thing I don't even doubt about is the ability of Andrej Plenkovic, he's a capable man, smart and he can do anything if he wants to, but he's a problem he won't. So, he doesn't want to criticise this mega-failing state gathering project under one flag, a flag with 12 stars, and the project failed and showed what it's worth right now. So, the Honorable Prime Minister, the Honorable Prime Minister, I really invite you if you can, I don't know, what happens, some kind of catharsis, that I don't know what you fall and hit your head, but no, I wouldn't want it to happen to anyone, not even to the Prime Minister, but to happen to some kind of change in your behavior, and maybe take a little bit of "The Foreign Words Dictionary" and look at what it means to be a sovereign, so the next time it happens to my mom and a friend on coffee, you can slap a hand on the table and tell my country you need money right away because we're paying him into the European budget, and we're sorry that we can't be poorer, my people, those who want to be vaccinated need a vaccine or what you say shut up, so don't even come to the Assembly for a pay phone and defend the unprotective weights. So you can't be a good servant of a bad master or, obviously, Andrej Plenkovic can.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45066	And now Mr. Milorad Pupovac will speak in front of the SDSS Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45067	Since the Honorable Vice President has already called you Deputy Prime Minister, I could have respected Mr. Vice President of the Republic, don't be angry with it, but when it comes to order, we can. One godless sovereign here roars about how this is none of the money and how unreasonableness has been born for a long time. Another somewhat more serious sovereign in the SR Germany economics professor and member of another sovereign but more serious party than this party here has stopped its constitutional initiative from ratification in the German federal parliament that was to be signed by Federal President Steinmeier. And to be aware of that, we are listening to these buryings of fellow MPs who are playing by the name of the sovereignty of this country, and they have no idea about it. What it means in Europe today, what it means in the world today, and what it means today in the minds of our citizens except that of some kind of primitive nationalist consciousness about what sovereignty should be, and as we know in the last 30 years. The land didn't make as many yotu sovereigns as it did. So let's go back to this money that was not easy to secure and let's not underestimate the 40 billion kunas that Croatia has put at the top of the countries that have withdrawn and fought for it. And let us not underestimate the efforts made by the government-led man to do so, along with the people sitting in the European Parliament, along with people negotiating through the institutions in different European Commission directorates. So it was a serious job, but is that job enough? It's not. To make use of this, and this is not as much money as someone said about Kosovo in Yugoslavia, this is the money that works to keep the EU together in crisis economic and political circumstances, to practice the solidarity that it is missing as much over the past 30 years as it is in our country, as it is missing in the debates in this House. We prefer to discuss ethnicity rather than discuss social solidarity on economic solidarity as a measure of progress and equality among people. And this is just part of the amount of money we're going to get from the program and that we have a chance to get. When a multi-annual financial framework is added, this sum is huge. And are we set to take advantage of that? We didn't. Is this a complete document? No, but that's why we need to listen to each other, who has something to add, which has something to supplement, which has an inspiring and significant idea. But we spend half this debate on replicas and on what? To business remarks. I like sitting in such a parliament and listening to such advocates spending their parliamentary mandates, constituency time, constituency benches for that kind of story. And when there's an exchange of arguments about the metrics of things, they're nowhere to be found. So I would abolish the Rules of Procedure and fully transfer powers to Vice President Radin. I trust him more than those who call for freedom of speech, and destroy him in every possible segment. As far as this plan and proposal is concerned, nothing without the state. I'm not a sovereign, but I am a conscious man who knows what this country needs and what it doesn't have. there is no functionality and efficiency, there is no control mechanisms, there is no control over the spending of funds either own or European, there is no policy of balanced development within our country and there is no adequate projection of how this balance will be achieved. It is unacceptable that those who are developed continue to develop in Croatia and those who are underdeveloped continue to stagnate. And that's why we need the state to change it, which is why we need solidarity within our own country, and this money serves to make the state more functional and efficient. We need the state to encourage, but it doesn't encourage. We expect someone else to handle it. He won't. The reconstruction in Banja will be done by no one but the state, the slaughterhouse from Gline to the Obrovec, and there is no one, and that is the only livestock space that lives without any slaughterhouse. With Gavrilovic, who does not have a slaughterhouse because he does not need it because meat imports around, and surrounding agricultural producers will get the frigid fig. That's the kind of state that needs to be changed and done functionally. As for control, the judiciary, we were recently stuck in the wrong way on the subject. One strong mechanism that the state should have in its hands is the judiciary that will be effective, professionally and ethically, not only from administrations but from the judiciary. And are we responsible for that? We did. Our three committees or four instead of meeting each month to find out what the situation in the judiciary is, the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, the Justice and Law Committee, we allow ourselves to get involved in discussions that we have been involved in in the past month and then to resort to party or party to one or the other side. The green economy, of course, is possible, but with this kind of incentive system, none of the greens, nor the economy. The money goes up, the agriculture is gone, the agricultural processing industry doesn't have any, the forestry processing industry doesn't have any, it only cuts the forest. So, if we want to do this, the incentive system must be changed, the agricultural land supply plan must be changed. How many municipalities have no plans to dispose of agricultural land? Who does that suit? Those already in possession, often illegal, and most often dysfunctional. Is that what we need to change? Absolutely. Is that a state thing? It is and that is how sovereignty is measured, and that is where the will of the state is measured as representatives and as authorities of the people, and we do not do so, and that is why it should be in this plan. The role and place of the state should be seen, and as a club, we propose this to our partners and our parties with whom we share the ruling majority. Science and education and research, determine 3 centers that will be excellent, schedule what kind of research and what kind of basic, any applied sciences will deal with and invest money in this area. Let's get people out of Zagreb University because they've climbed everyone's head, they're destroying one of the best and oldest universities in Zagreb and Croatia, and we're wondering how we're going to have science. Not at all. With such people at the helm, with all this money, we can be and develop universities so that they come among the first 100 in Europe, as Spain has set it as its goal, and whether we are, no, and we are dealing with Boras or not, this or not... It's a shame. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Our shame, colleagues and colleagues. At the end of the renovation, not just Clay and Petrinja should be restored. Everything that hasn't been restored since the war should be restored and roads and electricity, [[Intruder: Thank you.]] From Zemunik to Lasinj [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45068	And now we come to the usual sequence of violations of the Rules of Procedure. The first is Mr. Hrvoje Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45069	Dear Vice President, Art. 238 was injured, apparently. A fellow Milodar Pupovac is completely freaked out, I'd say. But what's most interesting, I don't know how, since it's not embarrassing for HDZ colleagues, Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic to be defended by Milorad Pupovac in the Parliament, that none of the HDZ will defend him. When I call Andrew Plenkovic, his friend Milodar defends him. And then a colleague. [[Intruder: Time, thanks, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45070	fellow Milodar, then [[Time, you have, you have, you have, you have, you have, you have, you've got, you've got, you've got, ……]] [[It was a replica, you have a warning.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45071	It's hard for him. to sit in the Parliament,... [[Intruder: Mr. Zekanovic.]] It's to sit in the Parliament. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45072	............................................................................................................ Man, free us more of your own. [[Intruder: You have a second warning from Mr. Zekanovic.]] The presence and it's going to be all 5. [[/Intruder: You have another warning. You want to move on? You want to move on?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45073	So, the esteemed vice president of HS.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45074	I didn't, to which [[Intruder: Third warning and word confiscation.]] I'm warning you, did I get to the other one? [[Sit down, sit down.]] Let me just finish the thought, so, [[Intruder: Sit down, please, subtracting words.]] [[Please, sit down. Sit down. Sit down, please. Sit down.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45075	If it's Mr. Pupovac, let me finish, come on. So if Mr. Pupovci is enough in the Parliament, [[/Intruder: 'Cause it's the Rules of Procedure. It's the Rules of Procedure.]] Incomprehensible/.../... have him leave the Assembly nicely and let him [[No, I won't, I won't...]] It's not happening anymore. [[Intruder: Guards, please, please, guards.]] in the Parliament and the problem has been solved [[Intruder: Please, guards.]] Right? [[Intruder: Please, guards.]] So I'm going to streamline My colleagues... [[Intruder: And you're not uncomfortable, you're using your time.]] What? Milorad Pupovac has abused [[/Intruder: Use your time, your time, and especially ours, and especially the people who watch us. Please, sit down.]] and my time and your time. [[Intruder: Please take a seat.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45076	Please sit down. Let's move on. Mr. Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45077	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45078	Bilek, come on, please, Mr. Bilek, turn that microphone off.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45079	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Pupovac, has injured an officer. 238 because he made the wrong allegations about the work of parliamentary deputies. It is not true that we serve only by breaking the Rules of Procedure, we offer solutions, we make suggestions, we give suggestions, and he, as a member of the ruling majority, can consider these proposals and not be part of the voting machine and vote with the automatic what is said to him, but to vote for what is good.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45080	You know it's a warning because it was a replica, right? I hope you agree. And Mr. Spijic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45081	Dear Vice President, there's no point in me talking now that Mr. Pupovac has escaped, and I just wanted to tell him that he's the biggest trader in the EU. It's the biggest merchant, it's a man who manages the Republic of Croatia's budget 3%. Budgetary parasites are that, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45082	I can only give a warning, right? Well, don't say thank you because I have to give you another one. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Just one, though. Let's move on, Mr. Vladimir Bilek in front of the National Minority Representatives Club. The most embarrassing thing is for me, you know.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45083	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. Dear Ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I think a little bit of this debate is still going in some wrong direction because we're discussing a really important topic today. A subject that, not only for the period of this 2021-2026, will significantly determine the future of our country, but will determine it in many years. Since we are discussing projects after a disaster caused by the global pandemic, an earthquake that hit the central part of Croatia, our responsibility is even greater. These circumstances were unpredictable, the consequences too. Unfortunately, it is not yet known how long the negative effects of this pandemic will last, on a complete, or whole life and future of all of us. Therefore, we must try to predict and plan to detail how to get out of this crisis, how you deal with the consequences in the economy, health, education and education, culture, sports, and how to help everyone who, whose circumstances have changed their lives in person, but let us not forget about the mental plan. Therefore, my desire is to lead the debate with concrete proposals, field visions and environments from which we, as representatives, come to improve as quickly as possible and as effectively as possible. I'm sorry that here, for several days now, we've been having political debates about what information is ahead of us, which is a summary of whether there's even a plan, etc. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we are discussing the National Recovery and Resistance Plan 2021-2026, which should be the basis for obtaining EU funds, without which, realistically, there is no recovery on any plan in the Republic of Croatia. As the Prime Minister said at the outset today, it is a document adopted by the Government, and we could use this debate to help our proposals on concrete projects to make the final text of this document even better. The material that we have obtained is used as a guideline in which the entire recovery should go, and we need to give concrete proposals that projects in which area, within which time period with what means, because we from the field and from the level of units of local self-government, with the level of the county can help the Government because this information clearly indicates in the summary of the draft the definition that is in agreement with world and European movements. We can say that unfortunately, critics of this programme that information is only a recycling of current plans and projects, I must stress that the recovery and resilience plan is based on the following strategic documents, programmes, recommendations and commitments. So we have a programme of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in 2020,-2024, which was adopted by this high house that we co-created together, the National Reform Programme 2020, the specific recommendation of the European Council to the Action Plan for the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the Course Mechanism and the National Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia by 2030. And those colleagues and colleagues, who wanted to read it, could have read it already in the preface of this document that is before us. The question is whether we should have rejected all the plans and projects so far, some of them already started to think about faster development, which were in preparation before these disasters. Was it possible to turn all the plans so far upside down and invent some new hot water without the current strategic documents? At first today, the Prime Minister made it clear in his speech that most of the funds clearly through concrete projects go into the economy, that the intention of decarbonising transport, better coverage of broadband infrastructure and what is most important, was stressed that the document was not closed, was not finished in the sense that it could not receive new projects, new proposals, that it could not be developed and that the government itself was open to suggestions. Therefore, I personally view this opportunity as an opportunity to supplement and improve already existing ones, to adapt to the effects of pandemics and earthquakes. In this direction, I would also like to highlight the concrete projects proposed under the National Recovery and Resistance Plan 2021-2026 not to spread to all areas, let's say that if we talk about the area of the town of Daruvar, one small town in Bjelovar-Belova County, but also the most beautiful small town in continental Croatia, these are 4 projects. The development of infrastructure in the Dalit entrepreneurship zone means something that goes towards economic recovery, new employment, the remnant of young people in the area of less than 4 million kuna. Editing the Centre for Crisis Resolutions Petrov Vrh, a project that has been wanted in the city for many years, with 4 million 730 thousand kuna. Construction of the Daruvar Student House, with 30 million kuna in the operational programme of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the construction of a new hospital stationary in Daruvarske Toplice for 70 million kuna which is a direct project that continues to develop Daruvarske Toplice as a top resort as a regional centre means health tourism, rehabilitation of something that we are truly famous for. And here I am not left but finally to really thank all those who worked on this draft programme, of course and the ministries, all other experts, but this way to commend all those who worked on certain programmes in the areas of municipalities, cities, meaning municipal, city officials through mayors and mayors, because inside are already projects that have been being prepared for months to be, to withdraw funds from the EU. Without a document like this, we won't be able to withdraw it. So here's why we support a lot of, full right this document. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45084	Thank you, Mr. Bilek. And now it's SDP's Club of Representatives and Mr. Sinisha Hajdash Doncic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45085	Vice-President of the Assembly, respected ministers, colleagues and colleagues, so Croatia is with Greece if we look at the head of the population, in fact, a member who has received the most funds or will actually receive from the European Fund for Recovery and Resistance of the RF. And we're actually talking about €6.3 billion so we can say "refundable" and "enough" 3.6 billion with a number of loans and guarantees. But to be sure, even though I'm not Friedman's but there's no free lunch, we need to know that the EU is calling it so actually in charge under good conditions is Eurobonds i.e. In fact, with Eurobonds, and in fact Croatia will have to return those funds, we will see what ratios and we will actually see how much they will be in the future of our budget funds. So that's what I'm asking you all to understand, so there's no free money. Now, the Prime Minister therefore commended his right to be right, and I will say with the ability and intervention of Croatia that received most of the money, but there is however something called certain indicators. And one of these indicators about how money is distributed was, in fact, your employment rate, i.e. unemployment, i.e. the involvement of the active population in the overall participation of the work in 2015-2019 and of course the threat of Covid to the pandemic. And that is why Croatia received the largest number of funds with Greece. Because we are the worst in the EU, so it is not up to me to tell some of the abilities, the incompetences of any prime minister, but actually depends on some of the facts, and what I have mentioned today, the Prime Minister has been managing this country for six years, so this is also his result. Now, what's interesting, again, I quote it so Andrej Plenkovic says this is "the recovery plan is essentially a tool for reform and transformation and that it should contribute to a favourable structure of efficiency of the economy," says Andrej "that the government is going into three steps". First, they will use these funds, then cohesion, and then probably if the rest of the funds that are loans of 3.6 billion euros are needed. Well, what do we have now? However, if we are looking at the complete arrangement offered to Croatia, we can conclude that these are, for example, additional funds on top of those in cohesion policy, and then the government's goal would be to benefit those funds from what they are intended for, which is recovery in the first row of the economy, and then resistance and economy and state, so also the public sector for future crises. The approach that I do, even though politics is the thing that I most often see here, is it's important that funds come in, we don't have to invest anything extra, excellent, we don't have to return them, which I'm saying is not true. We are going to use these funds first, so let's use the grants and let's see what we can finance that we haven't financed, but this approach does not guarantee long-term resistance or recovery and neither does the transition of the Croatian economy. And we'll be here today, i.e. you will be here today who has not debated all the time, but actually the impact on the content of this document will not be. So, you have a good book called "Senseless Jobs", so we'll probably all be in some pointless business today. So the plan is more or less developed, all of society's actors are more or less as we see dissatisfied, except for the Government, and our theme today is information about the summary plan, we're passive observers just like the businessmen and others, let's call them the stakeholders of society. So this document is very written authorically, for itself, the resources allocated without any analysis, the analysis I haven't seen anywhere, it's not even on some portals and we don't understand and I don't really understand the impact of these funds. Now I'm going to quote even the prime minister's economics adviser who waved that material this morning about 11pm, he says he is only following an assessment of how much implementation of the plan will affect the economy. So we're writing something first, so we're doing an evaluation, absolutely wrong. So as it is said in the people, the devil is in detail, and there is no detail in the plan. So, the simplest ha it could even be a coworker Ćorić or a colleague Marić probably teach a little bit, I will not say Mr Plenkovic probably Mr Savić, there is something called in the opportunistic economy... cost or optional cost. What does that mean? So if you put capital and work into some option A, so you're losing your ability to invest in option B, which means that your production factors will stay locked, and what I've seen is investment in infrastructure, and there's your recovery rates very, very long, 20, 25 years, and I repeat, this is called the recovery plan of the economy. And what direction am I reading here? Construction sector and under the quotes IT or apps. What are the consequences of that? Let's all follow along, I'm not going to give political judgments like I like to hang out with Andrei a little bit, so that's where I'm going to give an economic assessment. Let's watch what happens to the price of construction material in Croatia, will it remain the same or has it already started to grow? Very simply, she began to grow. And what else is the sad fact here? If that is unfortunately most of the things that are coming, they come from imports, and we will also have a problem with the construction workforce that is no longer in Croatia. I wonder how this problem will be solved in the next year or two years. Now, a little methodology, and I'm not going to go too far into the expert debate, I already did that with Mr. Savic two weeks ago. Okay, so by the end of April this document goes to the European Commission and the Council, so we have some pro form of public consultation five to twelve, any comments exclusively cosmetic nature will be, so many won't even comment on what it says or make some serious comments which is actually wrong. Now, the content of the text itself, so it's one message to society, so to the government, we're the only ones that matter as a government, to society absolutely irrelevant. So, Brussels gave us money, we write some document that will eventually pass, don't be afraid of it. It's strictly administrative form that's going to be satisfied, bureaucratically it's going to come out, we have a little copy-pass method so we copied it from previous documents, so we've paved it a little bit into this document, we've had a bad editor. So in one part of the document, you have those economic nebulises that I'm not going to talk about right now, and in the other part of the document you have, say, it's a phenomenon, so you have well-defined goals regarding energy, what with percentages, and on the other hand you have again in its environmental protection portfolio. You don't have any goals, so you're from the same ministry. And what's going on? Let's say HEP has a good job, so HEP does a good job, these others don't do a good job, so copy-paste. And we're still seeing this 700-page mythic document of ours, and it's waved with it, so I have no idea if we'll ever see it. And now to get back to the key question. That's your absorption, can we increase the absorption of eu funds over the next two years? So in 2014,-2020, Croatia had EUR 12.6 billion for you, and according to the data to be exact, here is the 9.4.2021, says the Spanish yellow, meaning how much Croatia managed to spend, we are exactly at 50%. So, your source is, the data from cohesion and... So this is European data, it's not mine. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So 50% was our absorption, and now I'm just wondering how much and how we're going to manage to realise this possibility at all, which is very important for the recovery of the Croatian economy? And now to conclude, so we have a bureaucratic self-loathing and we have those sentences that are true or not, does someone love Croatia and does someone not love Croatia, but if that is love Which is owned by Andrej Plenkovic, I say [[Intruder: Time]] Thanks, bye, bye. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45086	Bye, bye, bye. Mrs. Devereaux. You're dark and you're Tarritating and then Mrs. A puljak in front of the Center and GLAS's Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45087	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. First I'm gonna take a deep breath and say, uh, and she's gonna go. This plan the Prime Minister presented you know when? On April 1st or April 1st, and unfortunately that's all there is to say. It's good to joke on your own account, but it's about one completely unserious approach and one serious job. Since last year, I've been warning and wondering when we'll finally see the plan in the assembly? In July, our Prime Minister Plenkovic pledged to present him to the assembly by the end of the year. The promise was like always a fake. The Council is the place where you are elected Mr. Prime Minister and your inability to show your basic respect for the highest body of this state and for the representation of citizens is a disgrace and for that there is no softer word. You had no need to consult with neither the legislative authority nor the citizens on what the 6.3 billion grants should be spent on and another 3.6 billion loans from the Recovery and Resistance Mechanism, a total of 75 billion kuna. And then that's not a lot of insolence either, so we have no idea that what we're discussing in the Information Assembly right now is actually your goodwill. You object that the opposition did not make constructive proposals, as if it were the work of the opposition, you yourself wanted to be a government, and then you need to take responsibility. It's like you'd even ask for someone else's proposal and like you'd accept anything else. They're boasting that Mr. Plenkovic's fighters are here after the assembly that we've won the most in terms of GDP. Well, of course we got the most when we got the worst. It's really not something that smart people brag about. And then cream on the cake. You started teaching us how to love Croatia again. HDZ has always hidden its failures and nonsense by teaching others how to love Croatia. I really think Mr. Prime Minister that your party colleagues who feared that you would change something in a party can sleep peacefully. They really have nothing to worry about. And after all, here's to the gathering with the information on the summary. That shame is actually amazing. In many European countries, the prime ministers have started to present plans since autumn, Mr Plenkovic you took yours to Brussels, discussed it with some of his European and party colleagues, and that is it. You don't want to show it to your citizens, but your misfortune and the summary clearly show that it's a bad document. When a man opens it, he starts coughing up how much dust there is on the ancient projects that you've put into it. It's like you've been collecting projects that have been collecting dust in some table drawers or cabinets for years, and then you said, "We've pulled out ideas from the naphthaline, they're now green and digital transitions, and half of them are going to go to the economy." You could at least look at yourself and look at the transition of some countries that are more successful than we are. I will only refer to 6 billion kuna for reconstruction because at the same time, our director of the Reconstruction Fund said he did not know whether to spend these 600 million Euros from the Solidarity Fund, which has been sour in the government's account for months since mid-December, and you haven't moved one brick since the renovation. Since the earthquake that took place in the city of Zagreb will be 13 months, no single brick has been moved in terms of full recovery, and there is every hope that this plan, called the Recovery and Resistance Plan, will really go and apply. A smart country, clearly from these plights, sees what her problems are and predicts the way they're going to get out of these problems, but unfortunately, I'm afraid we're going to miss the chance. The opportunity for Croatia is great, but once you miss it, many generations will suffer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45088	Thank you, I thank the chairman, thank you and the services, so here's the National Recovery and Resistance Plan. I also spoke to the Committee on Finance, something small and this morning on the Committee on Science. On the Committee on Finance, we entered a major controversy over the fact that we, who criticise such a plan, who are generally critical of the government's moves, whether or not we love Croatia, did not want the Committee to end with a view, so those who criticise that they do not love Croatia. I mean, here, I call upon all of us to stop and stop, or most of the ruling majority, to break up with that rhetoric that one who criticises doesn't like his own country. It's because we're criticizing, just because we care, we're actually criticizing what's wrong and we're trying to fix it. So, the national plan, or information on the draft of the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, is now being discussed, not the plan itself, but the sketch of the draft. Why didn't we get the whole Plan to see, already, this is how we saw it, as someone said, as if Our Lady had appeared to us in Medjugorje, we saw it this far and we believe that there are these large 700 pages of this document, why the most representative body, why the MPs in the Parliament didn't deserve to see all 700 pages of the document, and then we can in some relevant way and comment and give criticism to that document, here, remains unclear. We're all wondering, but we didn't deserve an answer. I also asked the prime minister why we are boasting, or boasting, the prime minister boasts that we have received the highest funding compared to GDP compared to all other countries, so Croatia has received the most. We are in a circle of countries Bulgaria, Greece, Portugal, Slovakia, and at the bottom of that scale, those countries that received at least are Sweden, Austria, the Netherlands, Germany, Denmark, Ireland, and at least Luxembourg. Why aren't we in the company of Danka and Ireland already in Bulgaria and Greece? So it's very good that we got, I don't even comment on it, it's good that we got this much funding, but why are we in this society, come on, let's ask ourselves. Thank you, 30 years of Croatia, after 30 years of Croatia, we are the poorest country, the weakest developed, the most needed money, so of course we will get the most money. So I'd love to, I don't know about you, but I'd love to be our own country after 30 years, that we're amongst, in Ireland's society, in Denmark's society, so we don't need that much money, but here we obviously need to catch up with other countries in Europe, we need this much money, and here, great to get them. And that, for you, means here, I don't know, we don't love our country, so here we are, angry that we have this kind of money. No, it's not like that, we're glad we got this much money, but we're not glad that we need these money this much because, in fact, our overall economic backlog, the big fall for this Covid crisis. What is the objection of the Employers' Association is that they as social partners did not participate in the drafting of this document. A few, I think, just two, three meetings that were actually some sort of demonstration presentation, can't be marked as consultations and cooperation on making this document. We don't know how money will be distributed between the public and private sectors because in this component, the economy and the green transition, which is 54%, is actually the key words of the energy transition, the transport system, waste management, the water economy, so we're talking about public infrastructure again. Public infrastructure, the public sector, which is within us, is under the control of a policy in which corruption, customerism, ultimately, is the cause of poverty throughout the country. So what do we get in the end? By putting the grants billions back under political control, here we see where that led us after 30 years of our own country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45089	Now it's Mrs. Devereaux's turn. Vesna Vucilovic, who will speak in front of the House Movement Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45090	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues. Like I said today, I don't like to repeat myself, but maybe it's not bad. We, of course, are discussing today a document that we haven't actually seen, except that we saw it at a distance of a few meters, the gentleman showed us, he's obviously for a narrow circle of chosen people and this whole document is essentially made in one atmosphere of secrecy. I don't know why that was, so it's in everyone's best interest to make a better and better document. Maybe they'll object again that we haven't given any instructions, but what are we going to give the instructions on? For a summary? If we don't have the whole document, it's hard to make any remarks. We can look back, the fact is that the government obviously has no trust in anyone other than the verified officials, in a bureaucratic apparatus that will then become an army of officials in the EU institutions again because they probably know better what is good for Croatia and what Croatia needs from prominent economists, entrepreneurs, professional associations that live and work here in Croatia and who love Croatia because they do not love it and that it is not so, they would have long moved away because they can choose which country they will live in. The summary is quite general, let's be realistic, and it is filled with what it says already in the documents that we have several times had the opportunity to read what in the documents coming from the EU, and what in the various strategies that have been, in addition, the basis for this summary, and probably then for the whole document. As some of the things that are important in the EU apply to the Republic of Croatia, this is best seen in principle from indicators of the existing situation where we are almost all areas below the EU average. What is good in this document is a sentence from the conclusion that said "This crisis has once again pointed to the key structural weaknesses of the domestic economy as well as the need to improve the quality of institutions and public policies". That's where we all agree. But as the problem should be resolved, the author goes into the wind of state interventionism and argues that public investment is expected to generate more growth rates in the coming period and at the same time strengthen the potential of growth in the entire economy. So it's still an emphasis on the public investment that this document, though reportedly, has progressed. Railways, plumbing, sewerage and my absolute favorite is the construction of a new Kriznica skeleton in the municipality of Pitomača. If you haven't heard me correctly, it's a skeleton. If the skeleton doesn't raise our growth rate in the 21st century, then we're really in trouble. It's like a plumbing and sewerage is gonna open up new jobs for us. I don't think so. By bringing water and sewerage to every place, there will be no more people who will be able to attach to that network that is spreading and those that remain, they will pay for the water several times more expensive than it is now. If you haven't noticed your colleagues and colleagues, people are leaving. As we dig, entire families move and go to other countries to live and work. I have to ask who's going to drive those trains, those highways we built and most of the year they're staring at us empty? Look at how many vehicles go through Slavonika, look at that little information, you'll see the defeating numbers. This road gawks as empty as the surrounding villages, and perhaps someone would drive along the road when the toll would not be insanely expensive for the local population. What is particularly worrying is the sign supervised through this summary, which is that the mother state will distribute funds similar to it and create winners and losers on the market through grants. It's like he wrote from the Workers' Front, so I'm pretty sure it's Mrs. Crescent. Peovic enjoyed reading this document. By the end of this year or early next, around 900m euros or 6.7 billion kuna should come from the recovery plan. In total, it's about 49 billion kuna. At the same time, Croatian citizens in Croatian banks have 220 billion kuna savings. It's about an amount that's significantly bigger than the one around which there's so much fuss and noise, so I have to ask how come we don't offer our residents shares of a number of state-owned companies and there are over 300? Why, say, Ledo sold himself in a package, and I know, you'll tell me right now, it's a private company, but let me remind you, who wrote that lex Agrokor? If it wasn't for Mrs. Devereaux. Dalic, who now runs Podravka and has also been a consultant in the development of the National Development Strategy? Or did you think we'd forgotten the Borg affair where the consultants were paid millions of dollars? If we look at the National Reform Programme for 2021, the same phrases are repeated again, as in this document and what is missing, and that is a clear alocation of resources per user. It is invested in infrastructure and it is interesting that this is also highlighted in the work concerning science and research. So we'll build schools, kindergartens and dorms. It's not bad either, but can someone explain to me how building a dormitory will help raise the quality of higher education? This will certainly increase the availability of education to all residents regardless of socio-economic status but indeed has absolutely no impact on the quality of higher education programmes. It is similar in the health care work, yet few other objects and we already have enough empty objects in smaller places that stare empty because there is no doctor, no dentist, no one to work on the many appliances we bought. What I must commend is the part that concerns agriculture. I only doubt that it will be done properly because and when something is good, this government is able to implement it in the wrong direction. Content of the matter, that part is well-formed, but the amount is far less than the amount, for example. for the judiciary where the construction works are again, the construction of the square of justice. How will judicial reform be affected by the fact that all judges, lawyers, officials, etc. will be in one place in the market of justice? It may be easier for some new Zdravko Mamic to bribe judges when they are in one place. It'll go faster. No more walking from one building to another. Honestly, I did expect a little more from this document that depends on the future of generations to come. Maybe if we had an insightful document, my disappointment wouldn't be like this. But we can only see it at a decent distance and, as the audition would say, “it can but out of my hand. ” The domestic movement as a responsible party cannot support this because it is just another in a series of very questionable implementation documents, and frankly, I don't even know what we should support. We have received information on the summary, the whole document has not been seen, and even this debate is slowly becoming somewhat groundless, but what we have seen in the indications, it assures me that we will have even less market economies, even more influence from a country that will choke free entrepreneurship, and we cannot possibly like it, nor can we support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45091	Yes, please, on behalf of the Proposer Minister of Education, please. Here's Minister Fuchs.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45092	Honorable Vice President, distinguished MPs and MPs. Here, I've let a number of exhibitors, or representatives of clubs say their own, so I'd just kind of round up a part of the debate by now. What I'm saying is that we heard pro and counter arguments, criticism, praise on one side, and somehow I get the impression that we could say in one part, criticism goes in a way that we can all, or individuals, do nothing, but all together we can conclude that nothing can be done or anything like that, because when we have some kind of document that is whole, then we're going to dismember it, and then we're going to fight over every sentence, then we're going to say why something in the summary is not given, but it's so widely written, now that it's being given in a summary form, when the emphasis is given on where certain funds are going to be allocated, now it's not good. I think that in principle the difference between this document that has been presented here, regardless of what, of course there are some elements that have already been discussed, but remember, I think a lot of documents have been discussed in this House both in reform and in some others that have had one single flaw. At this point, this is the first one of the reform programmes that is based on finance and on the resources needed to implement certain reforms. We can all discuss the reform of the education system, that we would like such or such an educational system, that children are better at the results of the competitions, that we have a higher education focused on that part of the production of top experts, modern technologies, but also on all other areas, but in order to do so together, to get some money, we need to ensure that children can go to schools in a way that they go to one shift, and in schools they stay in full-time continuing, to increase the number of hours they need in order for them to acquire the knowledge and prerequisites that they then transfer from these school basics to high school and later to higher school institutions and result in finally adopted knowledge, skills and outcomes needed for life, and for some future challenges that await them in life. Here we are, of course, predicted and therefore this document is of particular importance to me, at least as far as education is concerned, 15% of the possible means, which is quite a large amount, although I would of course be more pleased as Minister of Science and Education that it is far greater, but this was the only thing that was possible at this point balanced to make and put targeted emphasis on individual systems. Ensure preschool institutions that all children in Croatia can go to preschool, which becomes mandatory, that they can go on one shift, that they can increase the number of hours and thus be more successful at, in knowledge acquisitions and adopted skills. Equally, we can equip schools to the level at which modern education should be based. Also, when it comes to higher education, the emphasis is not put on something in general, we are going to advance on something, but, in fact, very targeted, on digital, digitalisation of higher education, which has finally, in recent times, and what we have identified, been kind of neglected, and this shows how important it is in these epidemiological situations that are not demanding. In the field of research and development, the emphasis has once again been placed on the part that can provide momentum and economies, therefore on applied sciences, on research sciences, on start-ups etc., however, it is also not forgotten that part relating to socio-humanist sciences, I think it has been said and that interdisciplinaryism has in some ways been neglected, is not. There is a sentence that says very specifically that it will enable careers and researchers to develop and develop without unnecessary administrative criteria that prevent interdisciplinaryism and, of course, contribute to, Development and gathering. [[Intruder: Time, I'm sorry, time.]] I mean, this is an initiative. which actually gives an additional swing to the reform process with all the resources available to regular programmes at their disposal. [[Minister Fuchs, time, unfortunately. /]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45093	Thank you. Don't go, don't go, here, you've got a lot of replicas and then you'll be able to move on. Just to let you know that after the replica, when we exhaust the replicas, 10 minutes of epidemiological break. The first replica of Mrs. O'Donnell. Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45094	Thank you. Here, dear Minister, is one of the reforms, one of the eternal reforms of this country that you have cited and here is the structural reform of the system of education and education. We've been spending it for about 20 years, the only problem is it didn't happen. And now what I'm interested in is that in reform we have a structural reform of the system of education and education, under investment we have only investments concerning capital investments in schools, construction and construction, reconstructions etc. In particular, my question is where is the curricula reform, has it completely given up, why is it not mentioned at all in this document, why do investment expressions not mention investments in people, so in teachers and all the other staff we need to really implement structural reform of education and education systems because reforms are not implemented in ministries but are implemented in schools, why is none of this explained in this document? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45095	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45096	So when we talk about curriculative reform to her in this document, it's not basically a place. The curricula reform is being carried out further, the documents are being drawn up, only because I would say pandemics and crossing students from one form of teaching to another she sort of fell out of the focus of the public or interest and some other topics were obviously covered by that segment. Therefore, it is being carried out, and next year these final classes will also be translated into a new form of teaching according to curricular documents. It is done of course and prepares the checks, what we have promised students' knowledge and the quality of changes so far, but again we have a certain problem with the pandemic and so on, but it is not the subject of this document but it is the subject of some other documents that are still being done.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45097	Thank you. Mrs. Devereaux. Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45098	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, as you yourself said, so this component of education, science and research is one of the 6 components of the National Recovery and Resistance plan and refers to it as you pointed out somewhere around 15% of the total means, it's somewhere around 7.5 billion kuna. This component has two essential sub-components, one of which is the reform of the education system, or all that relates to structural reforms in the educational system. I am interested in secondary education and adult education, given the fact that we currently have about 30% of our students attending high school programmes, which is among the lowest stake compared to the average of EU member states, somewhere the average is around 52%. And just as these professional programs, we have 70% of the students, which is fine, I'm curious about what the envisaged reform interventions are exactly in this part of the system of secondary education and adult education?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45099	Thank you very much. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45100	Thank you very much for asking. Yes, you're right, esteemed MPs absolutely. In Croatia, the structure is about 30% of children or students enrolled in high school programs, and the rest of them most often or not most often, but almost everyone else enrolls in some form of vocational education. And as far as child coverage is concerned, we are very high on the European countries' scale on how many children continue schooling after that primary education. However, this relationship should not be satisfied. The programme presented here in the segment of secondary education is precisely going towards forming centres highly equipped with new tools and teaching methods to further attract children to this vocational education because only performing vocational training is not, not the goal of them continuing in the front row on high school institutions but to acquire education and start on the labour market, and only in some special variants or consistent professions is, so normally in the world, they continue on high school institutions while the high school programs primarily qualify them for, for universities.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45101	Thank you, I'm sorry, we're long over time.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45102	I'll be careful now.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45103	It's my fault. Mrs. Devereaux. Romana Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45104	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister, I'd like to touch another bad preschool education system. In fact, for many years in Osijek kindergartens, the Osijek kindergartens are short for 5 kindergartens and one manger group, so that's the 2020 data, I guess the same data will be this year after they end up in May registration tenders. In kindergartens there is a group on average of children 23 while the manger per group of 15 to 20 per year is on shift. Are you thinking, will you solve this problem and when, during what period? And the second question, as far as enrolling a child in kindergarten, are you going to change the criteria of enrolment by thinking about stopping discrimination against children with only one parent being employed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45105	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45106	Okay, these questions of yours are partially contained in this document that we're talking about today. I mentioned that this education reform plan also assumes that kindergarten facilities are built by the fact that the last kindergarten year or years before enrolment in primary school becomes compulsory preschool or if you want zero years and the moment when such a thing, when you access such a form of education, then you have to secure those capacities at the level of the entire state. So, yes, that segment is included here inside. When we talk about groups, about the problems in preschool education, it is a rather complex issue and we will discuss in the context of the amendment of the Law on Education and Education, especially preschool because you know that it is in local administration and self-government and that is where certain shifts should be made to harmonise it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45107	Thank you. Mrs. Devereaux. It's a pulac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45108	Thank you. Dear Minister, you said at the outset that there are always criticisms if the document is comprehensive, then why there are no summarys, if it's a summary, why we don't have a comprehensive document, maybe the solution is that we actually have one and the other version. And let's see the whole document that we don't see right now and this summary, it's just such an observation because the first working version of this document was even 120 billion kuna, and then by cutting into agreements with the European Commission, it came to 49, but good. As I said on the board this morning, in the work of this science and education, we have nothing to object to, except that, where people are, where there is a complete curricula reform, we've always had good things written on paper before, but somehow we're counting on implementation, we know still here when it comes to one-way follow-up, long ago Minister Primorac mentioned in 2008 even in the state pedagogical standard of the then adopted Parliament, it was foreseen in each school and pool.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45109	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45110	Here's an answer short and clear. I just want to tell you that in the case of this document and of some of the previous documents, there are concrete financial resources behind this that exactly what is written here can be realized and that is the important, important difference between wishes and possibilities. In this case, we have desires that are well-oriented and a financial basis that can be realized.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45111	- Mrs. Crescent. Vucijlović.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45112	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Minister, I would like to commend you first because you have succeeded in this school year one over 70% of the time at school, to keep the children in school and not on the online continue, and I think that this is a good way to go, so as honest as someone who works in a higher education system, I must say that I do not like that part of digitisation in the higher education system because we all know that this is a way to carry out the teaching in some way necessary evil that there is, we are forced in these circumstances but I do not see it as a future either primary or secondary and not in colleges. I'm genuinely interested in the same part of professional professions, for high school because according to the data from the MUP, we mostly come, we don't have enough builders, carpenters, fasaderes, armyers, ceramics, etc., And we've been deficiting in these occupations for a very long time. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45113	Thank you very much. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45114	Thank you. We did, thank you very much, for this, and here's what my colleague Berosch is going to say, thank you very much for asking. Yes, deficiting occupations are precisely these professions where knowledge is acquired in vocational schools, and that is exactly why we try these professions more attractively, and this part that is later recruited into the student population, try to generate from high school programs. When we talk about digitisation, this is just one of the summing titles of digitisation of higher education, but not only does it involve buying some hardware that will be installed or divided or whatever you want to do to high schools, but it involves both individual digital tools and the issue of digitalized higher education diplomas, the equipment of special cabinets and equal training and, in a way, the lifelong education of teachers to perform online teaching and so on, So it's a much wider concept than mere hardware. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45115	Mr. Price.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45116	Dear Ministers, one of the most important things for every society, is of course for every economy and that there are educated citizens who will also become educated employees and workers. So it must be defeating those data we know about Croatia, that 11% of people participate at EU level, adults in education, in Croatia, three times less, 3.5%. We are particularly saying this now that we are unfortunately due to different situations, we have had a huge eviction, and there has been a decrease in unemployment, although in some parts Croatian unemployment is high. But regardless, I can see that we lack a workforce that we simply lack in certain segments of the economy, a lack of educated workers. I hope that this is something that you will pay attention to and that this education of older people or adults will advance, and that I mean not only the unemployed but also those who are already working and perhaps want to requalified.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45117	Thank you, thank you. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45118	However, a whole chapter here also refers to lifelong education which perhaps in the context of some general concept, is not a lifelong education or requalification of someone from one occupation to another but is a de facto schooling and monitoring of all trends in a particular profession through a certain period of time and, of course, we need to do a lot more, plus, of course, the possibility of retraining without further ado. This programme, i.e. the reform package, provides for exactly guidance in certain areas, in the first place is a technique, a nature, a stem area and a slightly smaller part in the social humanist field, but I must say that this is not the only and exclusive tool that we can and will be doing reforms in this system, but that is what the ESF funds and some other EU programmes that have to be complementary and this is just to say in some way, cake cream.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45119	Thank you very much. ... education, less dementia, yeah, anyway. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Mr. Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45120	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministers, a few more words in relation to course, you know that the summation and complete, that these are not the opposite terms, you did not mention as the colleague said, ensued because the comprehensive text can be as complete as the summary that is necessary to be complete, to be consistent, to be coherent, to be coherent. I would still be interested in having at least one document brought to me by this government that you think it was, that was complete, that was brought into the House. And secondly, you certainly remember the time when teachers took children to concerts, exhibitions, shows, dances, operas, theatres, movies. Today, very rarely, they do so even though they have poor wages and have barely fought for a miserable increase. Don't you think that in this component of education it would be good to combine with culture in this way and allow children to go again. That's all.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45121	I think and believe that when there are no more threats like this in terms of pandemics and epidemiological measures, children will, of course, go back to kindergarten and go to cinema and theater. It is definitely necessary and it is certainly one of the segments without which it is difficult to imagine that one of the future citizens would be educated enough in terms of general knowledge and culture to find his place under the sun in every society, not just ours. However, life-long, not only life-long but also a change in the paradigm of children's stay in the whole-day follow-up compared to what we have now opens up space just for these other activities and serves day-to-day classes, visits and cultural and in their natural values that they need to acquire during their education.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45122	Mr. Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45123	Thank you, Mr. Radin, the respected ministers of any form of reform that has been announced since 2006 since I stepped into the primary school education system, did you know how long it's been going on for a child's ice cream? Since the pompous announced HNOS in 2006 that went out before it actually started, and an even smaller effect on the system as such has been left behind. The curricula reform that began, the empty gathering of badges of this or of that which therefore nothing system as the system inside has changed. I'm not going to tell you here about the things you know, which is ultimately the material and legal status of teachers at school, directors etc., etc., what I'm going to ask you is how you plan to carry out structural reforms and in terms of dispensing students as such, and also in terms of returning to teachers. What, bringing the teacher back to that place that they have [[Intruder: Thank you.]] It belongs, which is teaching, not an administrative machine. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45124	Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45125	Amendments to the legislative frameworks, Mr. MP, on various segments not only once but with a whole package of amendments to the legal rules of pre-school and higher education and research.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45126	Mrs. Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45127	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister, you have rightly apostrophe that these €6.3 billion we have at our disposal is not all the money we have available that needs to be seen entirely with the €24.5 billion that we have at our disposal within the multi-annual financial framework. For example, a billion kuna for agriculture in this programme is not the only money we have because we still have EUR 4.5 billion in the multiannual financial framework. When we talk about your portfolio here, it is particularly apostrophe that better integration of vocational education and education of adults with the labour market will be strengthened and 30,000 vouchers will be issued for the purpose of involving adults in the education system. What interests me is whether we have the exact data we need on the labour market right now and whether when we talk about these 30,000 vouchers there will be room for the private sector that deals with education.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45128	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45129	The system of reform education does not distinguish between the social and private parts of education. However, those institutions which are involved in education or have the right of the public, and in the hands of some private institutions, may report on the resources available with their programmes under conditions that are equal to all, for all those who participate. That's number one. No, I don't have accurate and exact information on the needs of the part that applies to lifelong education. These data vary and differ, of course, but it is certainly one of the essential elements in the implementation and supply of these programmes on the market.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45130	Thank you. Mr. Named Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45131	Dear Ministers and I and you are aware that this is the best government could do. If the government could have made a better program, or a better summary, it would have made it. I'm absolutely sure it could have been better, the government would have presented it here in a better form. This document shows, in fact, the ability or incompetence of this government and this document shows the values that these governments value. This government appreciates values such as prescribing old programs, if we put it in college, it would be prescribing graduate or doctoral work, guessing under quotes by strategic partners who promised to build something with their own money because at some point we gave them something, which is, say, INA, where she promised to build out of her capital something that we would now pay for, and it should have been built because we sold her our oil cheaply. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45132	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45133	Well, I don't know what to say since it seemed like there was no question, but there was more or less finding. Prescription, if anyone is against any copying, then it must be me, I've never plagiarized anything in my life, so we're not even this program. So I'm not going to comment on it this way, but obviously, a whole series of reforms just strengthens us in that we need a reform of education, or a discussion, and I'm convinced that we need an education system.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45134	Mr. Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45135	Dear Minister, I see that, through your exposure, you and Mrs. Petyr and I have actually agreed on the needs we need to address in school with regard to the labour force that will need the future. It is that we will have new interests that will emerge with new investments in industry, industrial production, individual sectors and we should simply create these people in schools. We have nowhere else to create them, but we have to create them in schools. You said we have to connect ourselves to the labour market, we need to see what is needed and in this direction focus education. Now, in order for us to do that, we need to equip our workshops, we need to equip our labs, it requires a lot of money. My question is, is there any plan to connect with local incubators, with entrepreneurship centres, with digital incubators, with digital innovation centres to reduce the cost of investing in schools?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45136	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45137	Yes, of course there is one of the ideas in that section relating to vocational education and not only professionally but also to school education where we will encourage and force cooperation between economic operators and the education system. There is also a programme for economic operators to join the education system in vocational education. We need our higher education system to focus on creating new study programmes, but not on study programs, so that one university performs exactly the same or similar programme, and that they come down more or less to the part that is being copied in terms of learning outcomes, but to get into the programs of teaching in nanotechnology and these top-notch new things that we may in principle not even have in Croatia, and they will be interesting in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45138	Thank you. No more replicas, thank you very much. And now we have a break by 4:30, open the windows, we haven't had a break in a long time, and I'll see you at 4:30.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45139	Dear colleagues because unfortunately our colleague is gone now we are going to continue working with individual debates, so we will continue to apologize with the clubs, and on behalf of the HDZ club, the respected representative Marko Pavić will speak on behalf of the HDZ club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45140	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President of the Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the HDZ Club, I would like to further explain what the National Recovery Plan is and why the HDZ Club will support it. I'm sorry to see only one member of the opposition, but I think it's important for the public to explain it further and to conclude what it is. The National Recovery Plan comes at the moment when we were planning a European budget and at that moment it happens without a precedent COvid crisis and despite the standard budget for the Eu Funds, a further step has been decided to take and provide funding for reforms and resilience and economic development. Without a precedent of 1800 billion euros at EU level, Croatia received 24.5 billion. Today, through this National Recovery Plan, we are talking about the distribution of one quarter of that 6,3 and we still have three quarters left to discuss, distributed so that I'm surprised to say from the SDP's side there's a criticism that there's only a summary when there's Mr. Greek who we really rarely see in Parliament, and even when he comes to Parliament, he doesn't give an answer why he didn't send when the SDP government programmed European funds that they didn't send anything to the Parliament, so on the one hand, when they want to send nothing to the Parliament, and on the other hand, when they're in opposition, they complain that 80 foreigners aren't enough. To answer Mrs. Puljak's criticism that Croatia has received this much because we are following, because the worst, the poorest, is not true. Here is Mr. Stipe Zupan's seat he will remember well, and Mr. Savic, when the first projections for Croatia came only for eu funds, Croatia moved to a new class because we developed with eu funds and crossed 60% of the EU average and therefore we should have 1.8 billion euros less, less are we more developed. But the government of Prime Minister Plenkovic pointed out on all occasions that Croatia was the only one who had used only one envelope and that we would have to get at least as much as we had so far. And based on this argument, we also got the National Recovery Plan, which we are first or second in the EU 12% of GDP, grants and a multi-annual financial framework that is bigger than before, although under that basic formula, we were followed by less, which is precisely the success of the government of Andrej Plenkovic and the team that negotiated it. It should be pointed out, however, that this quarter of the resources available here is distributed in a certain way, the rest goes through another mechanism and this quarter must be linked to the recommendations of the European Commission. It is intended for public reform and a good part of the state at all, say Germany has nothing for private entrepreneurs. We have, and through the debate now and I will show, used the maximum amount to give to the private sector, but also to secure funds for all public reforms, but we still have three quarters left to distribute. And what I'm commending here is that Minister Fuchs included this school reform, which is important because what's going on? We can't build schools from a standard budget, it can't go, it can't go against the rules. The National Recovery Plan also informed Minister Fuchs this morning that we also classified sports halls as classrooms and that all schools or schools that will be renovated and built will be able to obtain a sports hall. Also, employment needs to be fully monitored by both funds, here is 1.5 billion kuna for employment, but in the... multi-annual financial framework we have 4.5.6 billion kuna for employment. So, one and the other document should be integrated, so I am glad that Minister Tramišak has also reported on this second sector of programming. And as I said, Mr. Greek did not bring operational programmes to the Parliament, we are, and that's what the prime minister announced today. Now let's say there's not enough for the economy. That's not true. Direct funds come in 30%, indirect virtually everything. 54% of this plan goes to the economy, direct support 6 billion so 30%. And you know what doesn't work for the economy? 500 million kuna for doctor specialization, for 500 new doctors in Croatia. And what we have now shown this government has shown that not only does it know how to secure funds, but it has a creative ability to make good use of them. So what are these projects? The first thing 6 billion kunas of direct support to the economy, 47% heard Minister Ćorić going to green Croatia, to a green transformation of more than 26% to digital. Instead of... We say great, yes, we want a biorefinery in Sisak, a billion kuna, that would refinery, connect the entire chain of production of entrepreneurs and that's a good thing for Croatia, we haven't heard that. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] We haven't even heard, either, and that really commends, here's Stipa and Bell and everyone else that you negotiated in the European Commission's recommendations clearly said that we should give several billion kuna to support for electric cars. Because we are among the worst in reduced CO2 emissions in the European Union in transport. Instead of buying foreign cars, we were able to use a billion-and-a-half kuna to develop our own mind, the Roman project. Here's what I see is that there's Mrs. Petir, 650 million kuna going to the vegetable and fruit coolers. This will allow our small producers, especially, to sell these vegetables and fruits when the price is the highest, not when they have them on the market. Widely passable Internet for all areas of Croatia, there is no development without wide passable internet. The whole of Croatia and the most remote areas, the most rural from which my family, for example, comes from Imotski, will have a wide-ranging Internet. Vouchers for Education, 300 million kunas to support entrepreneurs to educate their employees, thus allowing them, in addition to direct support, to be more productive, it is the same investment in the economy. The digital transition of the Tax Administration, everyone speaks, no reforms, no reforms, here, will be fiscalised, not only cash traffic, but also security traffic. 7 homes for older people, for 700 of our older citizens we will provide homes. High school reform, renaissance of school construction, kindergarten. And that's why I'm very sad to say there's no economy on one side, when Portugal, Spain, Estonia is there at the level of direct investment in the economy as well as Croatia, but Lithuania is at 10% to 20%, Germany is zero, the Czech Republic has no methodology at all, and then there are criticisms that what's being invested is a para-economy, that it's not an economy, so if it's building a freezer for our OPGs, if it's building homes for the elderly, to provide them with these services, if it's building schools, kindergartens, hospitals, 2.5 billion kunas for health care. Now we've had out of this entire envelope a billion, 700 million kuna for health care, now 2.5 billion. 500 new specialists, a doctor of science, and I am particularly proud of 2.5 billion kunas for research and development, that we will develop centres for technology transfer, clearly says in a summary, 4 projects, and the development of careers of young scientists. As former president of the Young Scientists' Association, I really must say that this is more than expected of what I was, when I took part in various reforms of science. So let's conclude, we have 2.5 times as much resources as we've had so far. It's the knowledge of this government, the government has shown that it knows how to spend good projects, it has for everything, it's only a quarter, and we'll see each other at a debate on a multi-annual financial framework where we'll discuss the other three-quarters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45141	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives will be the HSS and HSU on behalf of which the respected representative Silvano Hrelja will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45142	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, the prices of colleagues and colleagues. We hear a lot of numbers here, but these figures depend on our willingness to do what we write and realize, it's not that simple. No credit or return funds without realising what we plan to do will be available to us. I have the impression that, in some way, all these plans, strategies, plans are done by people or who don't have or don't care about children or have already sent them abroad. I'm asking you, does he think he's gonna be here for this country and this country in 10 years? Do the creators of these documents know anything we don't yet know? Should we pack? What do we tell our children, our grandchildren, our friends, to lie to them and tell them it'll be better or to tell them honestly, everyone better yesterday? Not because of this money, but because we're getting older, because we have problems, because we have an economy in decline, because we're deindustrious, because we're a state without hope. What do we tell them? I ask you if anyone after this will know the answer to the question of where you're going, my world. So much for an introduction. As far as this draft is concerned, and my assessment, this draft is a list of beautiful desires, as well as an ambition to use as much money as possible from the European Union, which I believe and keep justified. Regardless of the source of the funds, good management would mean a useful and reasonable use of each euro, i.e. for some time each kuna. In addition, the Draft Plan opens up a lot of, many questions with its deliberate overly and incomprehensible formulations of possible activities as well as some activities already seen in our society and in our space. I would prefer that instead of the column, the main challenges write a broader description of the problem that we want to solve, but I understand that the political dictionary does not allow a word problem in pre-election time. I will look back at the three chapters that focus on my political action and I will say one rare commendation or a rare commendation and mention the activities that are mentioned, and they are illogical in my formulation and how to reach the goal and what is and how it wants to achieve it. The first chapter I will briefly look at is education, science and research. How to determine this at all if we do not have a precisely defined economic development plan for the Republic of Croatia and an increase in the level of education of society as a whole. For lifelong learning and adaptation of all generations we must be all without exception, it is a matter of life and quality of life, we must all be if we want the progress of our society. The problem is to define this when unknown is the current situation and projections of future labour market needs or to be more specific about not being offensive to workers in the world of work. Of course, science and research are key to community progress, but we are a small country with modest resources and we need to define strictly the areas of investment. We're not gonna act like America or some big economy in the world. Then the second chapter I'm interested in is the labour market or the world of work and social protection. What I have found well in this draft is the intention of reviving the project of vouchers for education, to education specialization, to acquire formal and informal knowledge and skills that would be acquired during the working century and that would result in 30,000 employees modeling French experiences. And I would praise this if it were so, but if it were like before me Mr. Pavić said it would be a support to employers then I have a lot of, a lot of skeptics on it. So let's open ourselves up to the citizens, to the young workers, to the employees and give them a chance like the French do and give them 500 euros each year that can be accumulated to, to educate themselves to be educated in formal and informal knowledge and skills. So let's make a full step, let's not go through someone to give this to our young citizens. The issues raised in this chapter are the reduction of poverty and social exclusion. We had a strategy in 2017 to 2020 against poverty, realisation, action plans, zero. The question of censorship, the question of the level of protection we want to ask, the question of the correct criteria to which we will act from the citizens, whether we will cover the one who is really poor and who has 5 apartments and rents 2 apartments in Zagreb or we will be a fair society about it cannot find anything in these materials. Development of the availability of social services. It's pretty simple in the country. You come to the one who provides services with a personal car and sort it out, however, how to do it in the city, in cities, in elevator-free buildings. Very hard. The quality of the service is problematic because all those who intervene, who come and do service to our citizens are in trouble climbing on the 5th floor without an elevator, and we have this project latently as an opportunity to operate and withdraw funds from the EU. Further improvement of the pension system, by increasing the adequateness of pensions from the first and second pillars through redefining family pensions and increasing pensions from the second pension pillar. What does that mean and when it's gonna happen? For more employability, 2024 is the deadline. Family pensions know everything, it can be 2022. On 1 January, however, no deadline has been written in this document. So, what about preeminent work, a little contribution, by when people will be working through student service and leaving and doing the pressure to stay longer in the world of work, that they will have to, these young people, that they will have to work until they're 70 years old, when we're going to deal with it, there's nothing concrete about it. We have many pensioners who are not covered by contributions to the damages of those who are covered by contributions, are in particular suffering and are the most vulnerable family pensions where two people have worked 70, 80 years in retirement funds. You will be less careful about poverty among employees through redefining the concept, I guess it amounts to minimum wages and ensuring fair pay. The fact that there is a fair salary in Croatia I have not been able to find out all these years. Then, of course, the adequateness of the pension from the second pillar by increasing the contribution of the investment of compulsory pension funds. By increasing the contribution I guess from the investment of compulsory pension funds as if it could be desired, as if it could be planned. Someone needs to invest and earn it's a capital market, it's not a wish and our will. For healthcare, we have the issue of access to healthcare, the issue of payment of participation, because availability is related to the payment of participation or the price for the release of supplementary health insurance, insurance of the financial sustainability of the health system. I mean, I'm okay, I'm thinking that we've reduced health care under the syntagma "no healthy people but only poorly examined", wrong, All humans are beings with an error of limited duration. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Thank you very much and forgive the short overrun.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45143	We're going to an individual debate and the first one will speak to a respected representative, Mariana Petir, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45144	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, State Secretary, Representatives and Representatives. The NPO for the 2021-2026 period is a document containing both the reform and investment of 6.3 billion euros to be observed in full, with 24.5 billion euros provided by Croatia under the VFO for a period of 10 years. These funds are of paramount importance to us that after the economic crisis that was sampled by the pandemic COVID-19, they would recover and become stronger but also to contribute and restore the houses and facilities of the victims in the devastating earthquakes that hit Croatia last year. In order for recovery and resilience funds to be used, in addition to meeting the three criteria relating to green and digital transition and environmental protection, it is necessary to implement the reforms that are a prerequisite for the realisation of investments. Money will not fall from the sky, but we have a job that requires complete commitment and commitment to achieve greater competitiveness of the Croatian economy and raising the quality of life of our citizens. I consider it important that Croatia has positioned itself in negotiations for the European Commission in such a way as to include in this plan components in which Croatian companies can engage, regardless of whether they are producing autonomous vehicles in St. Weeks or weeks of production was fuel in Sisak. What is important is that the state wants its reforms to create an environment that is suitable for strengthening the private sector. I am aware that the negotiations with the European Commission are still ongoing and that is why we are discussing the summary today and not the whole document, but I also see this debate as an opportunity to present proposals and to look back at the goal of obtaining as high-quality documents as possible. The plan expresses the commitment to the development of agriculture and the creation of food security and competitiveness of the agricultural and food sector, which today faces numerous challenges. The main resource in agriculture is land, we are all familiar with the numerous amendments to the Law on Agricultural Land and the attempt to carry out the work that should have led to land rounding down the cost of production and efficient land management. To succeed in this work, it is important to establish mutual cooperation and to use positive examples in our environment and to manage land in a rational and just way. The document highlights the importance of fostering association and cooperation through producer organisations and in order to achieve this, requirements for the establishment of producer organisations should be simplified but we should also consider supporting other forms of association, such as cooperatives that are highly developed in Dalmatia or machine rings, which would greatly enable the purchase of new and quality machinery that we obviously need, since the average age of tractors in Croatia is 31.4 years. It is good that this document is also accompanied by a strategy for the development of agriculture, which provides for 20 distribution centres for fruit and vegetables, through this plan we will finance them 7. At the same time, here we place emphasis on quality standards, we have registered a voluntary standard of quality, proven quality, first in the fruit sector, which will allow consumers to buy fruit of domestic origin and to know that it is from controlled production. In order to establish a smart farming system, given the average age of farmers, it is of great help to simplify the administrative requirements for them of course and, on the other hand, to strengthen the advisory service because today a consultant comes to 585 agricultural holdings, which is insufficient. As a result of the impact on the conservation of rural areas and the component that creates jobs in these areas, I believe it is important to recognise and plan activities that are related to the sustainable use of forest and agricultural biomass. We know that rural development is very much related to the digitisation and development of broadband infrastructure, these are areas where there is no sufficient commercial interest in investment, so I believe that we must primarily support the introduction of the internet into all Croatian villages. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45145	Thank you very much. We have three replicas, the first respected representative of Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45146	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Representative Petir, here as chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, you are very familiar with all the problems, of course, which agriculture as a segment of the economy has, how much did the NPO essentially realize that agriculture is an important segment of the entire movement of the Croatian economy and how much are you as the head of that committee, satisfied with what could be read from this strategic document?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45147	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45148	Thank you very much, MP Ivanovic. Well, one of the chapters, C1. 5. It is dedicated to agriculture and improving the use of natural resources and strengthening food supply chains. All the challenges are clearly recognised as well as the objectives that are well set, here some billion kunas are secured for the segment of agriculture, and through the Multi-annual Financial Framework, an additional 4.5 billion euros are provided, which should be sufficient when we include one and the other segments for those reforms that are necessary, and also for agricultural land, related to cohesion, related to the construction of infrastructure and distribution centres, the regulation and harmonisation of quality standards, the establishment of a food bank, the establishment of that smart agriculture model that is extremely important to us.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45149	Thank you. There is also a respected representative, Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45150	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable MPs. You've rightly pointed out the importance of the commission, meaning the rounding of the land, but to carry out the commission, we care about the catastran offices. But given this earthquake in Bania, the petrinya facility works in a container. If we are, and it appears that the state is actually incapable of rebuilding buildings and including catastrian offices. How are you gonna get geodetics to do your work if they're working in a container that doesn't even have air conditioning? When the heat starts, they're going to church there with heat. So, it's not going to be anything from the commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45151	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45152	Thank you very much, very much, very much. Thank you, very much, very much. Thank you, very much. So I believe that both you and I and everyone who are here today and all of Croatia would love for the earthquakes not to have happened, they are unfortunately our cruel reality and we are finding how we can and are trying to establish on the ground as quickly as possible that the system works, so there is no other choice at this time. However, this programme, except in the section of agriculture and in the chapter relating to reform and the judiciary of public administration, has provided financial resources precisely for the system of catasters and land books, i.e. the improvement of that system. This was also the topic of today's debate on the Committee on Agriculture where we invited the resolutions to cooperate with each other in order to actually, through this cooperation, come up with adequate solutions. The law on the cohesion that has been passed obviously has certain shortcomings and now it is necessary to change it, and that it is necessary to round up the land, here, we are all aware here and we know it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45153	Thank you. Honorable representative Maximchuk, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45154	Thank you very much. Well, dear colleague Petyr, we are aware that this is an ambitious reform plan ahead of us, but also investment, but I will look back at what you discussed most in your debate, which is agriculture. The pandemic has raised awareness of the importance of the agricultural and food industries and of the economy and of the security of our country. At the moment of the outbreak of the pandemic and the closure of the borders, the main comparative advantage has shown recognition of our domestic agricultural production, i.e. our domestic OPGs. Realising that our agricultural sector is facing several restrictions, and I am sure that this will be an opportunity for the recovery of our village, agricultural and agricultural producers, therefore this one, too, will certainly be an opportunity to strengthen agriculture. Of course, I'm especially talking about where I come from, and that's Slavonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45155	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45156	Thank you, Commissioner Maximchuk, for this replica. I agree with you. The funds intended for agriculture for the next 10-year period are significant and must be used wisely. That is why we are also encouraging the involvement of all stakeholders in programming in order to smartly program projects this time because we know that when we now program, what we have determined, we will have to spend the next 7 or 10 years, and there must be no failure. For this reason, I believe that those projects that are designed under this National Resistance and Recovery Plan and those projects that will be financed through the new Rural Development Programme or through the new Strategic Plan, which is binding on us by the EU Commission, will be carefully chosen to strengthen Croatia's agricultural sector, in order to make Croatia's agricultural product competitive in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45157	Thank you very much. The following will be spoken by honourable representative Damir Bakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45158	Dear Mr. Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I'll do it again at the beginning one more time. We have 6.3 billion kunas at our disposal, but also loans amounting to 3.6 billion kuna, euros, I'm sorry. Eura. The total value of the investments in this Plan therefore corresponds to about that grant part, the total value is approximately 49 billion kuna. Why so unambitious? So why don't we reach out to this guaranteed amount of loans? It's particularly unambitious to remember that an earlier variant, some earlier version of this document operated with as many as 115 billion kunas. I'll do this again. It's hard to actually analyse this plan, even more difficult to support just on the basis of insight into the summary because we don't have concrete measures, we don't have activities, we don't have deadlines, we don't have indicators, we don't have partial amounts, and therefore even what we see as good and positive and we can only support the conditional and only in principle. When we talk about the educational part, my key challenge is that this plan neither recognizes nor solves the basic problem of our education system, which is people. Qualified, professional, motivated teachers at all levels. The coverage of our 4-year-olds in preschool education is currently 81%, and we intend to raise that percentage to 96. We are already aware today that we have a shortage of breeders, especially those highly qualified, but this problem in this document is not addressed at all. The reading, natural and mathematical literacy of our 15-year-olds is deeply worrying. A quarter of our students are naturally illiterate, even a third of them mathematically. All these disciples, therefore, are one - quarter, or one - third, because this scale says that they do not have the basic knowledge of active participation in society. Our goal is to bring that stake down from 25 and 32% to 15%, respectively. So how? The construction and equipment of schools are, of course, necessary, without dilemmas, it is necessary to switch to one-way classes and extend the stay of students at school, but this problem will not solve because already, we all know, the deficit of qualified teachers in schools is enormous. We can't get qualified today, for example. professors of mathematics and physics in elementary schools, even in regional centres, even in Zagreb. And then how do we essentially improve this teaching as this plan ambitiously imagines when this plan does not plan to strengthen the profession, when there is no idea of the need for such empowerment, and that will not happen itself. And then with whom are we going to go into this green and digital transformation that the plan is of course as full as our national strategy? This ultimately leads us to educational problems at the university level, especially in the STEM area. This, of course, also leads us to the interest or continuing decline of our students' interest in enrollment in the STEM area. This also brings us to the quality of this education, especially in teaching studies. This plan contains many good wishes and ambitious goals both in education and in science and in research, but even the best wishes are impossible to achieve without people, and precisely they are missing in this document, the idea or awareness of the need is particularly lacking on how to strengthen this sector in the next decade, how to raise a new generation of qualified, motivated, and I would add more optimistic breeders, teachers and teachers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45159	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the esteemed representative of the Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45160	Dear colleague Bakic. So you may have answered in your discussion why there are no ambitions to use those even more credit means to have greater ambitions, so to create something that is significantly better and stronger than it is today. I also ask how we can if we write in this document that one of the objectives is to ensure the financial sustainability of the health system without saying what we are aiming at. Is there an increase in contributions, whether there is an increase in patient participation, so there are a lot of questions here without an answer and I am forced that this lack of questions without an answer suggest a lack of courage for greater steps, and you have exactly said where the problem begins. The problem starts with people and ends with people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45161	The answer of the respected representative Bakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45162	Thank you very much. I agree with you, of course. Of course, whenever we want to take a closer look at this document, then we clash with that fact that there are only actual hints, it's just a summary, it's just an abstract, and we can't really see the depth and severity of these announced reforms or investments. On the other hand, I'm going to add what you're saying, of course, and the declared ambitions in the pension system, which I've already had a chance to say about today. First of all, it is quite unclear how to achieve this in the first place, and it is even less clear how to achieve it within the framework of this plan and by the rules of this game. All together, so every question that we open, of course, is clashing with our ignorance or inability or inability to see a complete document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45163	Thank you very much and that's it, thank you. Now, on behalf of the promoter, the Honored Minister Prof. Dr. Rejoiced Fuchs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45164	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, my dear professor, my colleague. Let me just give you a quick answer to a few remarks that are very well noted. Yes, the fact is that we have a problem with school staff, chronically missing a math teacher, physicists are something better, but it's no less a problem with any other professions teaching when we get out of the larger centers. It's a matter of biology, chemistry, etc. In this document, they could not, nor could it, nor could the purpose of this document be contained inside, any other provisions that would be financed from some other sources of funding that I was in that first kind of presentation. So here is the focus of creating pre-conditional capacity to switch to one-way teaching, etc., but problem solving, this is Mr. Hrelja's representative mentioned around new young people where children will and will learn, there is, of course, funding from the ESF funds and mainly targeted funding in those areas that we lack, and this is primarily the STEM area, so mathematics, physics, chemistry, this part of the profession and in the education system that we will need in all of these schools that we cross and when we create the preconditions that you have well established in terms of one of the important factors for better, better education of children. What we can do, we can, we can't take a beating, and we can't get someone to go to study or learn something that doesn't want 'cause they have an affinity towards something else, but we can at least say it figuratively use carrots and certain benefits to stimulate and direct to that part of the profession and education that we all lack in society. There's only that much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45165	Thank you. We have several replicas, the first respected representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45166	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Dear Ministers, therefore one of the things, the figures we had the opportunity to read, and in this information on the summary is 100,000 jobs that we compare to the number of unemployed, but then there's one thing that seems to me is the key issue, or the key topic is requalification, so people's education for some new occupations. You can because things don't change the way we want them to, but they change, among other things, because of a series of different circumstances. So, I'm always talking about things I think I know something about. We'll at some point if we really start rebuilding, I deeply hope they will, have the need for a specific workforce, they're the labor force in construction for which we have a good tradition. If you have a certain number of unemployed, and you have a need here, you need to make certain requalifications. I did not find anything in the program or in the Recovery and Resistance Plan that relates to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45167	Thank you. Dear Minister Fuchs.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45168	... 100,000 jobs, yes, of course. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I repeat, we can't do some kind of analysis that we could possibly need if we needed it, we can think about it, but we have to do everything to ensure top-quality education. I just said, you can't force someone, but you can possibly stimulate them, that's what I can answer you at this point regarding this... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45169	The esteemed representative of the Hrelja has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45170	Dear Minister, I know that certain structures of education are set by European criteria, but I wonder if we know how much we need to respect these structures or follow them blindly, these parameters? It's one thing because we're still a small country that has its specifics to understand both by economy and by school system and by everything. And secondly, I'm in a lot of doubt, and from these materials, I realized that a system of vouchers would be installed for education, for training, for training, for training workers modeling French. A colleague, Pavić, here from a pay phone on behalf of the HDZ Club, said that the vouchers will be for the employers. It's not the French system. I'm not into copying anyone's system, but if one system is good and if citizens can choose I'll always give it a head start. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45171	Dear Minister Fuchs.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45172	Okay, thank you very much, very much, Your Honor, for the suggestion. This voucher system is one of the variants of which it wants to stimulate lifelong education as well. The mechanism itself can still be discussed and discussed. When we talk about what we need, as much as we need, you will hear the same and let's say in a way that shows a whole series of people and comments that we need not know much more doctors than we have. Of course, we in the education system can increase the registration quotas in colleges, the question is whether we will have so many interested or not, and on the other hand European spaces and the possibility of movement among Member States, of course, resulting in you having labour outflows towards those parts where the possibility of achieving better living conditions or pay is greater.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45173	The replica of the respected representative Bakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45174	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, thank you for, for, for your presentation. I heard what you said, I understand what you said, but I beg you to hear me. So we support, mostly we support almost everything de facto that is written in the chapter in the component of education, science and research. What's the point of my exposure, however, is that it actually lacks the necessary conditions, and the necessary conditions are people. Exactly what you said we might also be able to extend the quotas, enrollment quotas to, to, to the selected studies, but what good is an extension of the registration quotas if we don't have qualified graduates to enroll in those colleges? We necessarily need to reconfirm the teaching profession as a whole and we need to create a National Program of Attracting Young People to Studies, to deficit studies, and especially to teaching studies in such deficit disciplines. That's what I stood for.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45175	Dear Minister Fuchs.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45176	Yes, thank you very much. To absolutely think about it, we are on track and we have this approach and principle and stimulation, you have one whole chapter inside that applies to the careers of young scientists, young scientists and researchers, but it is also pointed out that additional measures will stimulate exactly enrollment in those segments of study programs that perhaps at this point some of the young people do not seem attractive, and they are very necessary. We have, you know, a very great interest in studying social and humanistic areas, and relatively much less interest in these technical and natural sciences. It needs to be changed, I think, in any case, because of the economy and society.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45177	The replica of the esteemed representative of Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45178	Thank you very much. Ministers, equal opportunities mainly in education are very important in the entire region of the Republic of Croatia. With this fund you will not be able to succeed if until now it has been handled in such a way that examples, a public private partnership built in Varazdin County during Cacic Mayor's time, have now been taken over by the state has received several thousand votes and depends on the government on it, while examples of Franciscan High School and the elementary school in Sinj failed... are together and we have more shifts, two shifts, three shifts of certain areas where children go to school, means unfair treatment towards certain counties, i.e. According to certain areas of the Republic of Croatia, it has been visible so far. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] I wonder if it will continue to apply so that one hand in the Assembly decides whether you will fail the County's contracts... from the past, to pay through his State Secretary whom you appointed for this particular sector in your ministry. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45179	Dear Minister Fuchs.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45180	This programme first and foremost shows an interest in improving infrastructure and teaching by, in all counties, will define local administrations and self-government in any case and after verifying compliance and compliance with educational standards, the funds will be the approval of local administrations, or those who need to call competitions and build the capacities needed. What I can say is that in this case, through this concept we have enough resources that no county, no area of the Republic of Croatia will be neglected.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45181	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. The next one will speak to the esteemed representative Sandra Bencic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45182	Thank you. So I could repeat some of the criticisms that we've already made, but I'm not going to talk about it because I really want to say that the Green-Left Bloc Club sees that this document should have been conceived and what is in it, and it's not. So our view is that the document is insufficiently ambitious, but what is crucial is that it lacks concentration on individual sectors. Today I asked the prime minister to list three sectors for which it is crucial to invest in them now, because they go into green transition and are at risk because of the green transition. And give me a list of three that are highly potent that produce products and provide services for what we will need. He didn't know how to answer me, he said Mr. Tomislav Ćorić would answer me, but don't let Mr. Ćoric be afraid, I won't ask him. But I will say this, so the document should be conceived in a way that on the one hand we have the requirements of the public policies of the European Union and of Croatia, these requirements are prevention, mitigation of climate change, green transition, fair transition and strengthening the resilience of the strategic public sectors, health, education and public infrastructure, and for each of these areas, and for each of these requirements, we must look at what our key areas are. The first area of mytigation and climate change prevention is certainly energy. What's our request? The transition to a low carbon economy, for which we need an energy transition that includes transport transition. But what is our particular challenge and risk? What is the specific challenge and risk of Croatia? That we don't have our own technology to produce energy from renewable sources. We have to import it. What was the National Recovery and Resistance Programme supposed to say? That we will design specific investments in the research and development and production sector of those components and parts that we need for renewable energy sources. What we should have written was that we would make a cluster of scientific research institutions, the metallurgical sector and the private sector of advanced technologies, so Romec, which together would respond to these challenges and start producing the Croatian technology that we need for this energy transition challenge. The other one. Energy and anti-quake efficiency in construction. That's one of the demands we have to answer. But what is our challenge again in the economy? That we have the fragmentation and low capacity to produce the materials we need to rebuild our buildings, either energy, or earthquakes. And what was supposed to be the response in the National Recovery and Resistance Programme? Targeted investments, research, development and production of products in the field of new materials, development, as well as research and economic clusters for the development of new materials. We have great colleges for it, we have great equipment in colleges for it, we have some companies, but they're still small, and it's supposed to be a sector that should have been clearly written in the National Recovery and Resistance Programme as a sector in which we will specifically invest. Why? Because then when we start rebuilding, when we buy these materials, we'll have someone to buy from, we won't have to import from. Agriculture and ecological agriculture. Eco-agricultural is not mentioned in the Summary. She's gone. And what's our challenge? It is a challenge for us to reduce the import of eco-food that we import extensively and increase domestic production. In the National Recovery and Resistance Programme, concrete measures should be directed precisely at this and aimed at the activation of 400 thousand hectares of state land precisely for those needs. The specificity doesn't say that. Also, have we detected sectors that are at the highest risk of transition? I'll list them for you now. The first in transition is the one-time plastic production sector, it's already going because one-time plastics will be banned. Where we've written what we're going to invest and how to transform it into new products and new technology, nowhere. Second, the artificial fuel sector. Did we write, did we mention him, did we say how and what we were going to transform him into? Thirdly, therefore, we have all the fossil-based industry, do we have a plan for it in there for how we transform it and how we're going to make investments out of this, from this fund to that, we don't have. And that's what the problem is, indifference and non-concentration on those sectors that we need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45183	Thank you very much, we have a replica of the respected representative of Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45184	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, I commend your debate, and I think it's very high-quality if it is considered that we are in the National Strategy, especially if it is considered that in the national strategy, the government detected us in the period 2000-2010, why we didn't have good economic growth. It was precisely because total labour productivity was 0.8% because it was based on imports and there were only three sectors. It was a trade, you were growing trade chains, you were building buildings, we were building infrastructures and there was an investment in banking. And now that we're getting this part of the money instead of rerouting ourselves to create a home component is what is actually multiple times and certain ministers have confirmed, we pay for everything we use from the EU. Well, we can't even build a bridge, but the Chinese have to work on it. And imagine when a number of other infrastructure projects start, so the entire development of this part that you've been setting up this is in 10 years going, this isn't in a year, this isn't in two years, and I think you've got a good guess in this part of it. define sectors in the next period. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45185	Thank you very much. Dear representative Bencic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45186	Thank you. So, what was my point in this is that we're on these public policy requirements, preventing... climate change, green transitions, so these are the requirements that are the next 20 years. What I think was supposed to be the National Recovery and Resistance Plan is to invest in those challenges of economic and technological that we have about meeting these requirements exactly this way because we're going to be solarists, we're going to be these windmills, we're going to be buying that other technology for the next 20 years. What is a question is whether we will now create a base in the economy that we are buying our own, and not only are we buying it, but we are exporting it, because these requirements are not only the requirements of us, but the requirements of the entire EU, but other countries are wider. That's the opportunity we're missing right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45187	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the promoter, the respected minister, Marija Vuckovic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45188	The Honorable Vice President of HS, the Honorable Madam MPs, the Honorable gentlemen of the House of Representatives. Regarding sub-component 5 of component 1 which is intended to support the rapid recovery, growth, development, green and digital transition of the Croatian economy, which is a sustainable use, i.e. the improvement of the use of natural resources and the creation of strong, strong, effective and competitive Croatian sub-component food chain, which is worth 988 million kuna, which is justified by its connection to agriculture, I would like to explain several important elements that have affected the proposal of these reform activities under the National Programme of the National Programme for Resistance and Recovery Programme. First of all, any national programme for resilience and recovery, except as defined by national government programmes, the national development strategy in our case, in our case and the Eurozon Action Plan in this case, is the most specified guidelines of the Council of the EU, Council guidelines, recommendations for the implementation of rapid and effective... In this respect, agriculture is not part of such guidelines at all because there is a separate common agricultural policy, because the common agricultural policy is financed in a separate manner and for Croatian agriculture over the next few years is reserved approximately at current prices of 5 billion 27m euros, and this includes 200m euros for recovery from rural development. So a completely separate allocation, which amounted to 100m euros to the last session of leaders, leaders of European states, when the 100m-euro allocation was raised to 100, close to 200m euros, with the negotiating skills and skills of the Croatian government and the Prime Minister. E these 988 million kunas are also the result of a good proposal and of proof that agriculture can also influence the reform character in this part. That is why we have requested support for improving production logistics capacity, distribution capacity with traceability, for additional digitalisation activities of smart agriculture, for cohesion, for reducing food waste, and thus to meet the greater needs of those who are poor and need food. This is not covered by the common agricultural policy, it is not covered by our rural development programme and direct payments, and organic agriculture is. I would also like to emphasise that the expected results of these reform activities are very concrete, that they are presented in figures. So, on the basis of this National Programme for Resistance and Recovery, if adopted in this form, 500 additional scholarships are expected for STEM students, to strengthen skills, those studying natural, technical, medical and other sciences similar, 200 supported projects of young researchers, increased development of new product technologies due to applied research activities in scientific organisations, 4 concrete contracted projects of scientific and innovation infrastructure to strengthen the cooperation of science and industry, technology transfer, increasing the number of tertiary education graduates from natural and technical sciences, from current 18.6 to 21.5 per 1,000 inhabitants, the EU average is higher than our current 20.4. So, realizing the desire for research to be as appropriate and adopted as possible, I would like to confirm that in this draft National Programme for Resistance and Recovery as part of the development and education and innovation research component, there is a very important economic need and emphasis on innovation, research that is rapidly applicable in practice and based on the needs of the Croatian economy. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45189	Thank you, we have a few replicas. He's the first respected representative of Bulj. Stay, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45190	Ministers, it is good to look through this document in the future and to see positively, however, the future, but at this moment I am personally interested to see how much is listed in Croatia's farmland, how much unprocessed agricultural land is, can you tell me where we are in relation to before we enter the EU in terms of milk production, egg production, production I don't know fruit, vegetables, meat products, pork. Can you give us that data from the day of entry into the EU to today? The future to observe positive yes, but as you've done so far we must have some beginning. Praises are dear to us, it is good to be clear, cheerful, read, eloquent, give the current state of return to EU entry to this day. Here, on these issues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45191	Dear Minister Vukkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45192	Thank you, Your Honor, for asking. Well, I don't like boasting either, I prefer to look at numbers, and I also like to look at the account in terms of what we planned and said, so I'll try to answer your question and say that the total agricultural production at the time of EU entry was somewhere more than 18 billion kuna, where the support was introduced into that account by 2 billion kuna and 600 million kuna, that at the end of pandemic 2020, these figures were ultimately, on the basis of the second assessment of the State Statistics Office, it was 19 billion, 243 million kuna, and with the support of 770 only one specific category of support included in this calculation, the rest were included in the factor incomes, therefore not in the value of production. For the first time, we have been added a value of almost 50% compared to intermediary consumption. Of course it can and must be a lot Croatia can do much more. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45193	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45194	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Ministers today, when we were on the Committee on Agriculture, we were passing this National Recovery and Resistance Plan in discussions, it was mentioned that there would be small producers, that family farms would almost get virtually none of this and essentially wanted to send a message that both this recovery plan and resistance satanic in the case of agriculture mainly for large producers. Which one is it, exactly?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45195	Dear Minister Vukkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45196	Thank you very much for your question, Mr. Representative, so regarding the support for small producers if we aim at family farms that are between 97% and 98% of registered farmers in Croatia, then we will say that they are also small businesses, i.e. most often micro-enterprises, and are foreseen under component 1 for financing as well as all other small, medium, micro, small and medium-sized enterprises in Croatia. Therefore, the support of the economy concerns slightly more than 26 billion kuna and 54% of the draft National Resiliency and Recovery Programme, where several of the most important investment measures relate to grants mainly for micro, small and medium-sized investments, of course and large on subsidised loans, to interest subsidies, to export incentives, to the internationalisation of production, with a greater emphasis on micro, small and medium-sized enterprises in all these sub-measures undertakings which also include agriculture. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] As far as irrigation is concerned 7,000 acres we're... [[Thank you, thank you very much.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45197	Thank you very much, Madam Minister. The next replica of the esteemed representative of Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45198	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister, I wonder if an energy cooperative formed by several micro, small and medium-sized OPGs can actually have such a logistic distribution centre that it would be energy independent? Second, is it possible to do this by making it a local LAG action group? Because I understand on the board this morning that it can only be done by a privateer who will receive grants, perhaps I misunderstood, because there is a danger that this man in his field then has a complete monopoly and then raises the prices of that warehouse and that logistics distribution centre as it suits him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45199	Dear Minister Vukkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45200	So, as far as investment is concerned, the first investments within the framework of the work relating to the construction of logistics distribution centres under the National Resistance and Recovery Programme are special in terms of fruit and vegetables. They will work in cooperation with the public sector but must have registered users in the form of associated small producers, where there is still our measure 4 type of operation 411 investment in material assets that all others can report for the construction of their individual refrigerators that are in line with their needs, certainly a cooperative that is registered from small OPGs that are all in the farmer's register can find its support on the different rural development programme measures to invest in storage distribution centres.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45201	The next replica of the respected representative Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45202	Thank you. Well, here's a respected minister, speaking of these distribution and storage centres, I must say, it's one of our proposals we've been talking about for years. We are pleased to have seen him both in the government's plan and now and in the National Recovery and Resistance Programme. The example based on which this was done is the example of the centre in Velika Gorica, which is one of the first ones made precisely in the synergy of the public sector, so where is co-owner of the county and co-operative producers. But I wanted something else to say. If you've already been restricted by the Council rules in having a specific chapter of agriculture, I didn't even say you should have one. What we could have and what we could definitely integrate is the area of food and bio-economics as one of the areas of smart specialization, the area of food and bio-economics as one of the areas of smart specialization that the note is also being reported, although it is part of our strategy, smart specializations are not mentioned in the document at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45203	Thank you very much, thank you. Dear Minister Vukkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45204	Dear Representative Bencic, I thank you for the question, and also for the comment on the run for regional storage centres. However, I did not say that the guidelines are restrictive, simply the National Reform Programme relating to, which is related to the application of the guidelines, mainly does not apply to agricultural reforms because they are determined by specific acts and have their other special means, and this is the supplement and is indeed the addition based on the proposal and the negotiating skills. So now we're working on an action plan for organic agriculture. We have a large measure of organic farming with which the results are quite frankly to be said and we are not very pleased, we are about increasing the surface area, we are not about the production of organic food, and also the area of food was also an economy covered by these means, so we can't double-finance it, that's all it is about.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45205	The Republic has a respected representative, Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45206	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Dear Ministers, therefore, in one part of the programme, we refer to, or refer to, the commissioning, the cost of land and the results that you expect, you expect that the position will therefore be improved, and so that it will contribute to the rounding of the properties and rationalisation of the cost of production. So the commission, I'm talking about agricultural land is exclusively spent for us for many years, it's been carried out in some other system and in another country when it was done for the needs of large agricultural combinations was the idea of something different. This idea of a co-composition and the need for a membership I have on a couple of occasions in different, different ideas in the strategy of agriculture heard. What is the meaning of the commission in terms of green agricultural production, or in terms of existing CAPs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45207	Thank you. Dear Minister Vukkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45208	I'm sorry, thank you very much for asking. Therefore, this draft National Resiliency and Recovery Programme provides for the investment in the commission and to combine 18,000 hectares of agricultural land, and to set up 90 monitoring stations to monitor the soil of agricultural land. It is certainly an investment that contributes to more efficient use of natural resources, and we would say, we can prove it, to the green transition of the economy. Efficient use of resources, soil and water is part of this activity.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45209	Thank you very much. Now he will speak to the esteemed representative Miro Bulj. Thank you, ma'am. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45210	Thank you very much. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable ministers and ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I, rather, should be a survival and return programme for people in the Republic of Croatia who have bad policies and bad projects that lead to that level that we have 2/3 of Croatia literally empty. I believe that so far done, and this programme of National Recovery and Resistance is very important to implement these measures that will be before us, that it will never happen again that we have never given any more incentives in agriculture, which is the fact that we have never again imported, never exported, it has raised something in the covid crisis, but it is the fact that money has gone away who knows where and how. So agriculture is very important and we have to protect domestic agriculture. Of course to encourage green policies, ecologically, our country is such that we have that possibility, it's mostly unworked, still under the weeds, so I hope we have the figures exactly how many agricultural land is unprocessed, it seems to me 800,000 hectares, of which is half stately, undisturbed and that we will finally roll our sleeves and allow our peasant to return to the country and start plowing his country. We can also talk about energy. We are the country most days of the sun to God, but at least in the EU we use solar energy because of what has happened to other interests, wind power plants, an example of Krsh-Paden, I hope that this will not happen again, and that we will use the sun. If Finland can use more solar energy that doesn't know when it's the day of night, and we Mediterranean state are at the bottom. We can talk here and about the environment, the environment, I'm sorry Minister Coric isn't here. It's about the environment. The management of green policy waste, the harmful Lečevica project in which it has been beaten in the last 10 years 30 million kunas, nothing has been done except that 10 people have been employed from Vrgorec transporting garbage to Sinj by highway in old trucks where the garbage is scattered on the highway, traffic is threatened, on diesel of old vehicles, so that the story is also falling into the water, but you will not delay the waste from Dalmatia in Sinj and Cetin end. That's what I'm telling you again. Instead of going to what is on the island of Krk, not a triba ić far away, to go to the disposal of waste in that place, we hire people on the team, in those areas where waste is delayed. We have a problem with the worst signal, the worst teleoperate services in the Republic of Croatia, the biggest profits in the Republic of Croatia, and the worst in the service. At the same time, we forgive them for their concession in the Covid crisis, billions of kuna, we charge them less, and they have the highest profit 42% in the Republic of Croatia while in other countries they have about 20%. And the worst services, our children to capture the signal when she was online teaching must climb the hills, search the mountains for a signal, so much about it. In my opinion, I can remember the culture, and the culture minister is here. Here is my Sinjska alka, our Sinjska alka brand national dal will only be that 3 days when you come, I am glad in Sinj, it will only be significant then or will be presented to the world and that Sinj, the Cetina region, the Dalmatian Zagora will live as a development, the alka must be developed and economically present the marketing site or religious tourism our famous Lady Sinjska also where we have that link of religious tourism that seas economic, tourism certainly develops. So we've got a lot of problems. Justice, I will neither speak nor speak of justice. The only thing that matters in the judiciary so far was the bag, and that's what Djuro Sesa and you ministers know, but you can't say it. Without a bag in the judiciary, no one believes in the Shex justice system. It means whether you're going to work that palace alone to spend money, to brag that you've spent it, or will, and Shakespeare has used your.../incomprehensible/... Minister, ask how he's tailored the judiciary, disaster. That's what makes the investor not coming. Trustless in the judiciary, in Djur Sess because the judiciary can't go without a bag, you just can't come. And about the Minister of Agriculture, I expected accurate data, mathematical data from how much we produced what I asked you through the replica, before entering the EU as much as today. That's the key question. We won't even talk about agglomerations that don't protect our drinking waters, etc., etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45211	We have two replicas. He's the first respected representative of Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45212	Dear Representative, Mr. Bulj, we have seen from the history of money coming from the EU whenever it is going to be financed, invest in infrastructure projects so that we actually invest in affairs. So how do you see this program now you from your perspective, from your experiences, from your regional views so investments? So, do you see any potential affairs from this program that we're discussing here today?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45213	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45214	Well, one thing, this is a question in place. I will tell you an example here in the Cetina region, Sinj is a significant joint on the highway, a fast road as soon as the Cetina landscape becomes a suburb of Split and thus a desirable life and the young would return, it is a key interest or for a Split swimming pool, that area is overcrowded, overcrowded such space, but it is much more important to make way from Vučevica to Sanader's drill to the non-existent tunnel 40 million kuna, 40 of these 4 lanes of road. So it's much more important to Sanader's gardener, Ante Sanader than to the 50,000 inhabitants of the Cetino area. And that's the problem, that's why young people go away and that's why it suits individuals, and I think it's time to say it enough because our country is worth fighting for, my son is worth fighting for, my Zagora is worth fighting for, my cetin end, I'm gonna end up with all the people... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45215	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45216	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Bull, you were talking about teleopers and digital transformation. The whole document is based on digital transformation, however it is not a digital transformation of the City of Zagreb. Digital transformation is our islands, so Dalmatian Zagora, Banovina, Lika, right, there we have a problem moving people, moving young people, closing companies, etc., because it's hard to telecom where there are no people, where they have no twists that you can make them invest there. They will invest in the City of Zagreb, in any quarter of the city of Zagreb they will invest because there are numbers, there they have profits, yes. And you yourself mentioned that the state has forgiven the telecoms by reducing the concession of a billion kunas. It is not a problem, but to invest these billions of kunas in the digital transformation of our neighborhoods which are actually lagging behind technologically compared to Zagreb, it may be certain policies related to digital transformation but unfortunately we are all talking about transformation all the time but it refers only to the City of Zagreb. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45217	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45218	Thank you very much. You said the exact information that a billion kuna was forgiven by teleoperators in the Covid crisis and it did so through the Misetic dynasty because it is a strict link between the teleoperator of a single owner, let's say to the government, and let's just say that that billion kuna is not clear to me why it is forgiven because the largest teleoperate profit is in the Republic. The largest profit, their only building permit for their base station facilities or antenna pillars does not need in Croatia. I can set her up at hospitals, kindergartens, schools, anywhere in the inhabited areas not paying attention. I can't do that in Germany where they came from, Sweden, I don't know where they come from. And it is very important that in the areas of this 2/3 of Croatia where they are emptied that the teleoper does not have any care or care about these parts, it turns out that only Zagreb is Croatia. It is not just Zagreb Croatia, if you look at Croatia only from Zagreb, believe me that it will be a similar relationship as it was in the former system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45219	Thank you very much. The next debate will be the respected representative of Zvonimir Troscott. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45220	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected MPs and MPs and respected citizens of the Republic of Croatia who follow us through the screen. So, as far as this programme itself is concerned, the purpose of the story is that the EU has decided, by borrowing and by budget, to finance the economy, but, in particular, out of borrowing to finance this crisis that was created with the crown or this pandemic. In principle, we do not agree in the MOST Club that the state should finance and enter the economy and increase its share in the economy itself, however, when the EU has decided to raise the money, i.e. to finance certain things from the debt, so what the great economies, the type of Denmark, Italy, etc., are to invest in the private sector, and that is something that is, for example, at the famous Conference The Economist, where Celine Gauer sat, is otherwise the Director for Implementation of the National Resistance Programme, she said that tourism is such a very fragile branch in the economy and that we must now focus as a country to the private sector, and that the private sector will be the key to recovery in Croatia through the National Recovery Plan and Resistance. That's not only Celine Gauer said, so said Alvaro Santos Pereira, who is otherwise the director of analysis for OECD countries who was amazed at the same conference as Croatia is actually weak in competitiveness, and this poor competitiveness comes for two reasons, under number one, so the technological obsolescence that draws its roots into the fact that we 1.1% of GDP invest in research and development, and the European average is about 2.2%, and then we would have to invest 100% more in research and development in order to start catching up therefore certain trends of the European Union and investing in production that give little added value. In this sense, the only way to get us out of this crisis is to invest in the private sector and, of these 40 and as many as 9 billion, 50% invest in the private sector, above all, in capital investments like big countries, and not in subsidising interest, as it does, as we have seen in the State support report from 2019, because, above all, interest today is very low on the capital market, so that the state would absolutely not finance anything, and on the other hand, other countries within the European Union, since they realized that they can channel that money into the private sector, so they are already working on competitiveness, working already on investment, on increasing production capacities and production of products and services that will then be able to sell in the European Union market and we are lagging behind in this sense. Math is very simple. One kuna invested in the private sector requires a private investor to invest additionally from 3 to 4 kuna, which then generates higher revenues, larger revenues then generate a larger profit, then generates bigger taxes in the Republic of Croatia's budget. It's math. On the other hand, if we invest all this money in infrastructure problems, projects, as is the case now, that means that one kuna invested in the public sector means a maximum return from one kuna, if effectively managed by means, so, if we don't invest in the private sector now, there will be so-called pressure of entrepreneurs as one trend that we have already set up with the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, where we have shown that, by the index of economic freedoms, we are in 79th place behind Cabo Verde and behind Kyrgystan, where we have sent the craftsmen a message that we are unfortunately, coffee to go destination and that they are those who are the only or main spreaders of the disease while the other shopping centres have worked and are now still sending an additional message that we are anti-market for the reason that the money will again end in the infrastructure sector, i.e.e. in the public sector, as was the case, where our concerns were used, as well as the European Union from 2014. – In 2018, where a similar chart is seen, where we actually invested in infrastructure projects. The biggest projects were 800m euros, so they split between HZ infrastructure and Croatian roads. And now look where this development is now, or growth based on these investments.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45221	Thank you very much. We've got a few replicas. He's the first respected representative of Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45222	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Troscott. So the fact that this Covid crisis has completely changed some economic paradigm because America is printing 2,000 and 300 billion dollars to boost their economy. Europe is printing $2 000 billion, 750 through this programme, and about 1 100 through the multi-annual financial framework. And these are some kind of gauges where both Europe and America are moving. You mentioned that the European Union is in debt, which is the fact that we are moving towards the fiscal union, so it is no longer a taboo topic that the European Commission will have its own incomes, but what you have mentioned, and the government's documents have been defined as having a very low technological base, or something a colleague Bencic spoke about sectors of the future that will actually bring such a return that will be much faster and will relate to employment and the relationship to the private sector, because the fact that this crisis can only be a private sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45223	Thank you very much, the answer of the esteemed representative of Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45224	Thank you for asking, Your Honor, Mr. Lalovac. I would agree with you for the reason that this particular mathematics that we've been setting up, where one kuna would be invested in a private sector where it requires an additional 4 kuna investment from the private sector itself, which will then generate higher revenues, so it also works automatically on employment. Take a look at the infrastructure projects that have been engaged or are now engaged in Croatia, where these are the employment of all these projects where we have beaten up all this money. So, if we could access these 23 billion kunas in such a way, so with private investment, that would mean several tens of thousands of jobs, especially if there were to be investments in high-value products that could then be further sold on the European Union market and that's the only way, the only way to get out of this crisis. Our concern is that 50% will be spent again on infrastructure projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45225	The replica of the esteemed representative of Hrelje.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45226	Dear colleague Troscott. The key word you said was to engage funds in those sectors that bring more added value. I have life experiences that, that private people have worked badly and had activities with little added value and where workers have worked for small wages and ended up as pensioners with the lowest pensions, which means that from the occasion of the titleholder ownership is not a crucial factor. The crucial factor is where you hit the core, and that is the question of dealing with production and services with greater added value. That's all I wanted to notice from my life experience and everything I've ever done in my life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45227	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45228	Thank you very much for asking. So what's the fact of the Croatian economy, and that's where the former finance minister sits, so it can confirm that a large sum of the pension system is financed from VAT. That's a fact. So that's the starting point that we have to go from. So, if we invest in the private sector, in high-development technologies, this would lead to higher incomes that we could put aside taxes more in the Croatian budget, which could then be additionally insurance for a pension system that is an important topic for you. So without that, without these investments that would bring more returns, I speak macroeconomicly both for short and medium term, so we will lose our chance and maybe bring that system into uncertainty for reasons that infrastructure projects will bring either loss or zero.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45229	The next replica is the esteemed representative Mirela Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45230	Your Honor, Mr. Troscott. The fact is that Croatia has gained the potential of the highest funding, not because of the supernatural negotiating capabilities of Andrej Plenkovic, but because of the fact that it is least developed alongside Greece, the most dependent on tourism and its struggle for resilience, and the hard fight is coming, and it is a strong struggle for resilience. What you can see from this document is that the economy, especially in the private sector, is not offering much. The only projects in the economy that can be called the economy mentioned are among other two projects, the reconstruction of the Sisak Refinery and the Matte Rimca development project. As for the Sisak Refinery, it is a more or less public project because if it were profitable, then INA and MOL would actually invest their assets in it and risk their capital, and here they intend to spend the resources of the National Recovery Plan on such a refinery that does not even have synergy with the Croatian Government's agricultural policy, so I am interested in your opinion on the project and why private entrepreneurs are not more supported planned in this document. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45231	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45232	Dear Representative Ahmetovic, thank you for asking. I think the main reason is, in fact, the continuation of this anti-enterprise policy that we've had to look at since the HGK where such an institution is being protected at the expense of the entrepreneurs themselves, you've seen for yourself what it was, what it looked like. So there is also the anti-inversity climate, which is unfortunately sent by the ruling party to craftsmen that the only ones are actually the main transporters of the disease because they were, or pandemics closed, while the rest of the shopping malls therefore worked. So there is the continuation of these anti-market projects, where infrastructure projects are still financed without therefore the private sector's interference. And why can we confirm that? For the reason that the economic experts who designed the project, which is exclusively the gentleman, the economy minister and Mr. Savik, were left alone. Zagreb Economic Institute said our input was not taken into account HUP said our input was not taken into account, the Voice of Entrepreneurs, our input was not taken into account. [[Intruder: Time.]] Therefore There can't even be private instructions when they're alone. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45233	The next replica is the esteemed representative Marijana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45234	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Troscott. 30% of the separation from this National Recovery and Resistance Plan for the private sector is much more than nothing, and if we add it indirectly to that, then we can say that this National Recovery and Resistance plan has not been bypassed by the private sector. What I would like to ask you, since perhaps during the debate today there is a sub-representation of information about a component that I welcome, which is to enable the establishment of a better balance of private and business life that is extremely important for employees, and especially since you mentioned trade chains, then I would say, this is particularly important for store employees. I am pleased to learn that the government is negotiating with social partners a law that would ensure Sundays and decent working hours, so I wonder if you and Most will personally support such a law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45235	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45236	So, about the first part of your question, 30% is insufficient. It's just like that and what's the biggest dubiosis that's being created is that we don't even know what 30% of it is today, what companies got that money and by what criteria. So, first of all, it's insufficient for it to run into a situation where we are, and it's actually extremely difficult. Secondly, what we don't actually see is the return calculations, so if we're really going to pump up these huge billions of kunas, so in these projects, we don't see returns that will be there, which is employment, so what will be new jobs, which will actually be projections of filling the Croatian budget because it's so-called. the budgeting of capital. If you're already investing in a certain investment, what are the returns? On Sunday, therefore, it is due to the polls conducted by Ipsos, so also by the EU Convention, so a certain day within the week should be for rest within a certain state. Sunday, as such is a traditional holiday day and which are therefore citizens themselves in [[Intruder: Time.]] Ipsos poll said they want to take a vacation because they want to spend time with their family, so we'll support that poll. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45237	Next individual debate, distinguished representative William Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45238	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. The component of the economy is like this, under the Plan, I recognize the need for further investment in recovery and strengthening the resilience of the cultural and creative sector, this further investment, it's really hard for me to remember some of the former important investments at this point, but okay, that's probably what's in the Budget. In any event, further investment in recovery and strengthening the resilience of the cultural and creative sector in order to remove existing barriers to business in the single digital market, and to allow for the adjustment of new operating conditions. So, in the objectives of 1.1. and reform 6, the development of a resilient, cultural and creative sector is mentioned, and another point is the transformation and strengthening of the competitiveness of cultural and creative industries, and this is one of the few times when industry is mentioned in this Plan and interestingly cultural and creative. I don't know if this applies to the gaming industry, to the production of computer games, I would certainly like to believe that maybe the film studio that we've been waiting for so long to be made that would help both numerous co-productions and quality external productions that are coming to Croatia, would certainly help in that sense, but I say that nothing can be done in this Summary, we have to simply divulge from this deposit that remained from those thousands of pages that we've been shown there, but we're not yet decent and we don't have an understanding of it. Or maybe it's about compensating publishers, discographers, I don't know, the minister's here, maybe she can explain it to us, whether it's anti-citation that the authors, artists, filmmakers, as well as journalists, photographers, photographers, whether they're actually going to be recognised by these indecisive artists and copyrights, and then, in part, they're going to try to make up for some loss that they're talking about, and that they're rebelling against, the adoption of a final copyright law. In any case, it's interesting how culture is seen on one side or it has to be on the market and it's completely commercially justified or it's still seen in the valley, in free time, as a entertainment culture and it's of course exclusively commercial culture, and we're also in the platform We can also in the green-left, Green-left Club, we're convinced that culture is an important, extremely valuable social resource. In fact, culture creates the fabric of society, culture is this area of dialogue, space of understanding, but culture in Croatia is systematically denied the role of social player for decades. Culture is part of many aspects of society, education, ecology, social policy, we heard here, and our colleague talked about it, how few teachers, not only in terms of mathematics and physics, but also in terms of the minister's words, but really from the educators, from kindergarten, through elementary school, let alone if he really manages to move to a full-time course or in many schools where there is no one-way course. Many colleagues and colleagues of mine, except that actors have other colleges, there are mathematicians, and mathematicians, and I'm sure I can help and I'm sure this is an opportunity to eat together these centers and culture can be very, very helpful.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45239	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed Minister Nina Obuljen-Kožinek.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45240	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm glad to have something to say on behalf of the government and about the component of culture in this Recovery and Resistance plan. What I would agree with Agent Matul is that culture is an extremely important and valuable resource, and that's exactly what our government is showing. She has shown in a crisis of direct interventions and I will repeat, by keeping Croatia’s cultural institutions open unlike any other European countries and we are struggling for culture to be open and cultural life can take place in these circumstances. As far as the Recovery and Resistance Plan is concerned, culture is not, it has no special component, but it is in several, in several places in this plan. You pointed out that reform relating to the resilient cultural and creative sector, we know that this is the sector most affected by transport and tourism in this crisis and that it has shown how important it is to invest in digital adaptation and the focus of this component will be on two parts. On the one hand, investment in cultural and creative industries in all legal and physical persons, so also companies, as well as art organisations and independent artists, all who will have such projects, in order to adapt to the needs of the common digital market, i.e. to help invest in the relaunch of production. The second segment, which is very important, regarding the activities of the Ministry of Culture and Media, is the segment of investment in fact-checking systems, media facts from the public disclosure system, and especially when we talk about the fact-checking and investment in professional journalism, so this is the second investment that will take place under this component, however, I do not think we should ignore the two areas listed in the framework of the public administration, justice and state property component, which is the digital transformation of conservative bases and archival records. Therefore, two reform initiatives that will allow for conservation bases to be invested in a more modern system of spatial planning and integration of conservation systems with spatial planning and allow for the much faster and more transparent obtaining of all the permits needed to invest in protected cultural and historical units. And on the other hand, investment according to our adopted Archive Act and the National Plan for the Development of Archive Activity in the Archive Network. I must say that we will invest in almost a third of the national archives through the National Recovery and Resistance Programme. But more importantly, to stimulate the digitisation of archival material and to enable access to digital archive material, which will cheapen the storage of archive material, but at the same time do faster processes of issuing different documents that are needed by our citizens and kept in state archives. And I would mention only in the end that culture or cultural heritage is represented and in the special activity within this Recovery and Resistance Plan relating to the energy restoration of buildings with the status of cultural goods. We have during this day and on committees, but also here at the plenary session, all the ministers we have performed pointed out that this plan should be seen complementaryly with other sources of funding. So also with the state budget and with the next multiannual financial framework, as regards the recovery from the earthquake and the resources available to us from the Solidarity Fund. So we must not ignore the fact that one part of what will be restored, and as regards cultural heritage, we will also co-finance through the National Recovery and Resistance Plan. All together I would say compared to other national plans and what other countries are doing and I think that through this national plan parallel to what we are preparing for the next multiannual financial perspective, unlike what we inherited from past programming, we will provide serious funds for investment in the cultural and creative sector.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45241	Here, we have two replicas. The first is a respected representative of Rada Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45242	Dear Ministers, with all due respect, and here you are saying there is no specific component, there is no component that would be a sub-component, so maybe based on education or synergy, perhaps on the economy if we are already talking about cultural industries. What you're talking about seems to be that there's no recovery and resistance without culture, but recovery can't happen the way you presented the digitization of something that's very valuable, which is heritage. So we're doing recovery or if we're going to do recovery I don't know the efficiency of buildings. You were talking about protecting cultural goods, about state and better availability to state archives. So we know that the European Union is and what it has asked us to do with digitisation. But do you really think that recovery means recovering the past, not investing in the future?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45243	Time Answer. [[/Intruder Boric: My time is up. Excuse me.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45244	Thank you. What I have to say is, none of us asked for anything. There is a legislative framework within which we propose those projects that fit what can be financed from these funds. I mentioned cultural heritage. However, I was also talking about the cultural and creative sectors, the cultural and creative industries. I repeat, this applies to all legal and physical persons operating in culture and there are some 250 million serious funds envisaged, plus 50 million to check the media facts. Therefore, direct support to the cultural and creative sectors to help the recovery and to invest in the relaunch of the activity. I'd like to mention one more time. It's complementary to everything we've done so far from the state budget over the past year.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45245	Next replica, distinguished representative Krunoslav Katičić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45246	The Honorable Chairman, a respected minister, and unfortunately, we have witnessed that many cultural buildings in these earthquake events that occurred last year have suffered certain damages, so I have to ask the public a question. In addition to this initiative put into the National Recovery Programme, will cultural heritage buildings be restored and at what stage will they be able to normally benefit from cultural events? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45247	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45248	Thank you. As far as the buildings damaged in the Zagreb earthquake are concerned, you know that we started the bargaining. It's paperwork. In the heritage part, the work has already begun. Emergency measures have been carried out. So what we're going to do as a government is complementarily started with the Solidarity Fund. Other funds are available in parallel, and we also have serious resources from the National Recovery and Resistance Programme. Something will be financed from the multiannual financial framework. In the same way, we approach the damages that occurred after the petri dish. As far as this area is concerned, our initiative is even more ambitious. The design for the very centre of Petrinja as regards the individual protected cultural goods has already begun and I expect that now we know the procedure of the Solidarity Fund that we will move even faster and more actively into reconstruction.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45249	Thank you, Minister. Next individual debate, distinguished representative Anka Mrak Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45250	Thank you, well-respected vice president of HS, respected ministers and ministers, colleagues and colleagues. So, we are discussing today and we will discuss until late evening hours on the Information on the summary of the National Recovery and Resistance Plan. Of course, those starting positions we've taken won't change, the ruling will defend and say that it's the most beautiful and the best in the world, and we from the opposition will point to things that should be better and that we think should have been better and made in a different way. But this plan should be considered and discussed in two directions. One way is by which we present ourselves to the EU what Croatia wants to be in the future, what Croatia is in 2030, what Croatia is in 2050, and the other is what this Plan brings to our citizens. Where citizens recognize that through that plan they'll have some things better, faster, simpler, and what interest they'll have and I've got things written in my stream, but since I only have five minutes, then I decided to say two things a little more detail. One thing is what you listed, says the management of the land-book information system and the catastra. When you're doing such a plan, then you need to know what you want and you need to know where their flaws are. In Croatia, we have 3383 catastrian municipalities, 15 million particles recorded in the catastra, 4 147 783 ZK cartridges with 56 thousand cadastrian plans. It's been done in the past, I'd say 15 years, about 7 to 8%. At that rate, here we are in 100 years and we'll have it covered. The model you have to decide about is the model, you have the radical one, you have some kind of less radical, you have some kind of optimal model. So we know what we're doing right now is wrong. And what you're going to have is just the information system management, you're going to have 2 information that you're going to have about the information system that's not compatible with each other, and today you can go and look at, let's say, Vis from Geoportal, when they put a cadastre in the sea, and that's a fact. The thing you have to decide on is the next one, and that's to start sorting out the cadastre and the grantovnica through a joint project for what the building areas are, which are either for purposes or which are planned and if we had this in this draft of the National Plan, we'd say okay, we have some step. Okay, our citizens will finally be able to lay down some real estate. At the end of the line, the state will also be able to manage its properties. We don't have that, and unfortunately we won't have much time. And the other thing is, what we're asked to do is, in the draft of the National Recovery and Resistance plan, we have some sort of step. We've got a new story. We've got a new project. In January of this year, she's a lady. Ursula von der Leyen announced a project called “New Bauhaus” modelled by Bauhaus, which was headed by Walter Gropius from 1919 to 1933, and said it was one of the projects that was part of the Green Plan, she said in January this year, that it was a new project that needed to combine experiences, knowledge, science, young talents, design and useful objects and to combine both design and accessibility and accessibility and opportunity for some new technologies. Perfect for us. Ideal. We have a broken Bania/Banovina. We have a problem in Zagreb. We have a problem that we will have to deal with, whether you want or not, by restoring, what the city of Zagreb, which Banije, what Banovine. Ideally, in this Plan, the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, we should install what is already Mrs. Ursula von der Leyen announced as one of the projects. Ideally to say, yes, Croatia can be one of the options. Yeah, we're ready for factories, new construction materials factories. We are ready for new materials, we are ready for that, the disaster that has hit Croatia further than other EU members, which is still an earthquake, to turn it into our advantage. What do we have in this plan? Nothing. I went several times to study her speech carefully and see what she said. Exactly what I convinced her, and instead of taking advantage of it, There's not even a letter in this draft. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45251	Thank you. The next debate is on behalf of the promoter, distinguished Minister Darko Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45252	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President, the Honorable Parliamentary MPs, the Parliamentarians. So when you listen to a debate like this, then the identifier is the only one. You didn't bother, you didn't read. There is another extenuating circumstance, you got a summary, but you didn't even try to find the whole document on the website because then, with initiative 6 which is called "Renovating buildings" in which about 5.9 billion kunas are intended primarily for energy restoration of buildings, but according to one another or another philosophy. So there will be no more energy recovery where the building is not constructed and constructed statically stable. One big step ahead of what has happened to us over the past year, because one part of the buildings, which we've refurbished, died in an earthquake because they weren't statically stable. The restoration of earthquake-damaged buildings, but including energy recovery, is another sub-initiation. And the third about which a colleague of the culture minister has already said something, an energy reconstruction of buildings with the status of cultural goods. Also, the novelty is finally to look the truth into the eyes and say we don't have enough seismologists to deal with this plight that hit us, but we don't even have integrated data based on which HAZARD maps could be effectively produced to make some projections and some predictions, although they assure me that in their science part it's very difficult to predict. And what worries me most about the profession and the work you've been dealing with, and you've been the ISP Minister's system or the integration of everything in the single spatial system is something you wanted to say, but you don't have the obvious basis to know what it's about. So, the last three modules that were implemented at the beginning of this year allow Croatia with the function of the e-conferencing e-conferencing of local, construction and useful permits without a single piece of paper, without coming into one counter and the integration of the system in 8 countries of the European Union allows you to say that the investor from Brussels in Croatia is a useful license without ever coming to the space of the Republic of Croatia. And you know why only eight countries? Because only 8 European Union countries are ready for such integration, and one of 8 countries is the Republic of Croatia. And the new three modules that we're going to make over the next three years, including 180 million kuna that we're going to invest in so-called. The plans of the new generation will create a tool for us to have spatial planners in this process, and that is to contribute to a new investment procedure or swing in all units of local self-government that have the authority and obligation to make spatial plans or other plans do so on the same basis, with the same tool and by the same rules, and only then will we create preconditions, get a national spatial arrangement plan that or which several ministers want before me, but without creating conditions to do something like that and come up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45253	Here's a few replicas. The first one is Anka's distinguished representative, Mrak Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45254	Thank you very much. I'm usually really trying to be as polite as I can and I'm really trying to not react to anyone's indiscretion. But now the Honorable Minister Horvat has had enough. None of what I said was answered by you. The system is called the ISPU Information System of Space Editing, just to correct you. And if they knew the job wouldn't have been 13 months since the earthquake in the City of Zagreb, and nothing happened in the City of Zagreb. And when it comes to e-authority, I know more about e-authority than you do, but explain to me how the investor from Germany or from Brussels will get a local or construction permit in Croatia when the cadastrian particle is one, the building particle is the other. You could go in, you could enter the ISPU now and see, say, the island of Vis or the island of Lastovo. The island is where it is, and the catastre is in the sea, and the grantovnica is absolutely messy. That's what I was talking about, the Honorable Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45255	Time. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45256	I would like to thank the honourable Parliamentarians. In order to perhaps teach you a little bit of business, I invite you to Prelog and Čakovec and I will show you on the spot what a synchronised number of cadastral particles from the land-marked extract looks like. When you do or when you want to do it on Vis or some other parts of Croatia, it will be done. And the story of the e-registration and everything that has been made and built to give from 8 European Union countries into the process without visiting the counters, without buying notes and without talking about what we constantly apostrophe and that is Croatian history. Croatian history is also the start of business in the Republic of Croatia from the chair of the living room which we have forgotten and are no longer talking about, and this is a contribution to digitisation of business environment development in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45257	The violation of the Rules of Procedure is the distinguished representative of Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45258	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I refer to 238. I don't use the Rules of Procedure very much, so I absolutely accept your warning because it's going to be a partial replica, and that's not what you have to call me to go with you somewhere. I absolutely through ISPU can see everything. But what I see ministers 6% of Croatia is arranged. Croatia is not Prelog. Croatia is not the Varazdin County. Croatia is everything else. At this pace one 119 years and here we are and arranged Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45259	That you worked a little harder in those four years when you had that chance.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45260	We're well back, so the distinguished representative of Anka Mrak Taritash herself has announced that there will be no injuries to the Rules of Procedure, and then there will be a warning to her, and the next replica is the distinguished representative Katica Glamuzina.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45261	Thank you, Chairman. Minister Horvat, I must admit that you have quite arrogantly concluded that no one here has read this document in any of the written 70 pages. So if you're already convinced that we're not reading it, give us those entire 700 pages so we don't read it. What are you afraid of? You came here, waved with someone, pardoned Counselor Savic waved some papers, and the prime minister said in most responses to the replica, yes, yes, the plan exists, here it is, wave with it. We got him, he really exists, like he's trying to convince himself, not us. You gave us information on the draft summary, and here half of the government came to defend that mythic document. What are you afraid of? Give us, do I, as a Croatian citizen, have the right to this public document? Give it to me, now. Let me see him. Do I have the right to do that? Give it to me. Give it to me. Give it to me. I'm a Croatian citizen. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I have the right to this document, you said it existed. [[Please, please.]] Give it to me now Show him that I really... [[/Intruder: Please. Would you like to finish your replica?]] /Intruder: Do you want to finish the replica or will I have to give you a reminder?/ [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45262	Minister, I don't know if there's a need for an answer here. There, there, there, there.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45263	I thank the esteemed Vice President and thank all those who have the will and will to read the document. So, the summary part of the document was delivered and it started a parliamentary debate, the moment the government brings it in, and that's the document that the Government of the Republic of Croatia brings in, it's going to come to you in the same way as this summary, so everyone who has a desire and will, and I have to admit that I didn't get that impression during today, who you have the desire and will to read it, you'll have the opportunity to read and comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45264	The next replica is a respected representative called Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45265	Dear Minister, it's a shame how much untrue you can tell from this pay phone in one speech. As for constructive energy recovery and reconstruction, I know from this club that my colleague Sinisha Hajdaš Doncic suggested it, I personally told you about it, I told you about it, and when there was an amendment to the programme or the Law on Reconstruction, you didn't accept it, you explained that it couldn't be done with each other, when we explained that it was just logical, if you were constructively renovating, let's solve the energy problem. You're not. As for the documents at the station, this document is on the side of the site, not among these documents, such as the Annual Strategy for Sustainable Growth, but I will discuss it in my debate which is why you came here because Europe has instructed you to come.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45266	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45267	Thank you. So here we are, and after 13 months of being said, we are still discussing what the law treats under construction, and what is completely renewed. Unfortunately, if we're going to do this for another 13 months, then I have to admit to this left side of the assembly it's never going to be clear who's entitled to construction and who's entitled to a full restoration. So the law said very clearly, and also the National Recovery and Resistance Plan in the treatment of energy recovery in which energy recovery will take place in continuity, but no longer on buildings that will not be constructively restored, or which statistics will not be able to bear, and this new burden brought about by energy recovery.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45268	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45269	Dear Minister, you have admitted here all the tragedy, not only of this Law on Reconstruction that you have brought together with the Platform We can, we have clearly said then how bad this law is, so you're saying that after 13 months, it's not clear what the law predicts. So if it's not clear to the people of the Parliament, what it means to people who need to apply that law. ... And you, so it's not even clear to the minister, and that's actually what you're doing, what this National Recovery Plan is and what's going to happen to us in the Perspective. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Regrettably, you are everything, in fact you and this government have been exposed, as well as those who have supported you in the adoption of such a radical Law on Reconstruction, which in 13 months has not restored anything in Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45270	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45271	Thank you, dear Parliamentarian. So you who, who are uninterrupted and in the continuity of the citizens of Zagreb and the Zagreb environment, are afraid by the complexity of the necessary documentation in order to apply and obtain the right to some form of renewal, you who all the while apostrophe that the request needs 90 contributions or 6 kilograms of documents, is the fact that today, with one quality preparation, the request is submitted only with the contribution of the identity card, and therefore I always dematize the lies and explain to those who are being used to scare the citizens of Zagreb and the Zagreb environments to any information in the dislocated offices, the information center or the Ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45272	Thank you, Minister. Minister, thank you, you're done. We've got injuries to the Rules of Procedure. The esteemed representative of Nikola Grmoy. This is the third one, if I'm not mistaken, so that means taking away your word if it's not...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45273	So, I have to react, you can't take my word for it because the Honored Minister, so he hurt me. 238, he said that I was lying and that I was spreading disinformation from the hanging. 13 months have passed, nothing has been restored, so I lied nothing, and you can't give me a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45274	Okay. You gave it a replica and I'm giving you a warning, it wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, it's your third warning, you've got a takeout of words until the end of the debate. Next individual debate, distinguished representative Dario Hrebak. He's gone. If he's not here, then he loses his right. The next individual debate, a respected representative called Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45275	Dear Vice President, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. This last debate of the minister is actually my entire Light Motive from the beginning of the day that's actually been spinning in my head, but I didn't want to say it somehow by respecting this hall and I wanted it while the Prime Minister was here because actually the Alka Vujice song where this government reminds me of the one "Lying, lying" lie to me or lying to me, lying to me, lying to me, lying to me, lying to me, lying to me, lying to me, lying to me, lying to me, lying to me, telling me the best. So this whole document is actually a set of attempts to show this government on a hill of paper that it's doing something. I looked before this debate my debate when it was about the national strategy and I could actually convince the whole debate, not say anything else at all. The exact same theme, same distance. You know what your prime minister's biggest problem is, which is the biggest problem for you and all those who are currently running the country? Panic fear of making any decisions. That's the biggest problem. We wouldn't have any other problems if we had a government capable of making decisions. And why isn't he making decisions? Because when you make some decisions, then you have to take a chance. And when you have to risk it, then someone will call you that you once made a mistake. The truth is, I've talked several times from this pay phone about when people do something they're wrong. In order not to make a mistake, we are making this plan the strongest public sector in Europe, because it's the simplest investment there, the least you'll be wrong if you build a bridge that you haven't built a road bridge there will be. You'll say here's a bridge. One day someone's gonna make roads to that bridge, so maybe they'll use it. But what I really wanted to talk about was I read it myself, I went to the link of this short program and watched what else was there. Well, there's some kind of annual sustainable growth strategy in 2021. So when you take that strategy and start reading then you realize that this government with this document came here because Europe has ordered that all segments of society should be included in the debate, because otherwise these documents are not acceptable. Because such documents are expected to help society. The same Europe has said that this is a decisive response to the crisis that has arisen in the European Union. If you remember my debate when it was a national strategy, then I said it is good that we are part of the European Union, it is good that there is someone who is better than us and that we should strive to be above average. We're not above average, we're second from the end. Why are we second from the end? Because the only thing this government does is present what it has asked of Europe. That's the problem. That's the fundamental problem of this country. If we were to ask ourselves the question of where and where we gave some answers or where we wanted to be, we would also know what to do. My colleague Bencic, in fact, of all the debates I've listened to, was the most beautiful one to detect one of the things where a decision should be made. You know what kind of country this is? A country in which 25 thousand people have gone from Croatia over the past year. They went where they lived better. Who came to us at the same time? 21 thousand 500 other people. You know who came among them? Only 350 highly educated. That's the problem with this country. Our best go out. We're getting what we can take, because this other thing is going somewhere else. We're going to have state-owned companies that, we have as many as a thousand 100, make up only 7% of the added product in this society. These are the questions this strategy needed and if it had answered at least a part of them, we would have been a much better country to live on for 5 or 10 years today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45276	On behalf of the promoter, the Honorable Minister Nina Obuljen Koržinek.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45277	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I wanted to get back to you in fact earlier and about the debate between MPs Mrak Taritash. However, the debate of Representative Brumnic encouraged me to take the word on behalf of the Government, because what you said I don't know how we could understand it, all the luck for our citizens to see what you don't see because saying that our government doesn't make decisions or that we haven't made decisions after all we've done in the last year to save jobs, to ensure both health and continuation of economic activities, you would, say what I think, but all the happiness that citizens certainly know, see and feel what this government has done. We are here today not as your colleague said to defend something so it came as you said half of the government to defend the summary, no, there are ministers here today because we have respect for the Parliament and we think that parliamentary representatives but also the general public must be aware of what we plan to provide through the recovery and resilience mechanism. It's very ugly when you say it's a presentation of something that's been asked of Europe. So, allocations have been negotiated, the Prime Minister has negotiated them, Croatia has received, as you know, the largest percentage amount of its GDP just to encourage, speed up reforms and to speed up our recovery. I wouldn't even comment on the song you quoted, I don't think it's worthy of this debate or this High House or this document that's important to all of us, it's important to our citizens. As for this comment on whether or not it is investing in the public sector, I will remind myself of what several of my colleagues have said during this day, but also what we have spoken in the previous weeks since we started presenting this document, which is that the recovery and resilience mechanism is designed to ensure and, I quote, effective and significant financial support to speed up the implementation of sustainable reforms and related public investment in the Member States, it is a recital 8 of the Regulation on this mechanism and, therefore, it is very important, it is not good not to stick to the fact. And only in the end, given that the earlier debate mentioned, and you have partly referred to the issue of building renewal in the context of all developments, and then the New European Bauhaus project, I would like to say here publicly, and many stakeholders know that Croatia has shown interest in participating in the project, however, it cannot be an integral part of the National Recovery and Resistance Plan because it will be implemented in a completely different way. At this point, the EU Commission is still considering mechanisms, it will likely be linked to the innovation framework and the Multi-annual Financial Framework that is still being negotiated, however, Croatian experts are involved, we have expressed interest that just after the earthquake and our efforts to make it sustainable, to make it green, but also to ensure counter-quake improvement in our housing fund at all, that actually one of the typical, one of the pilot projects for this New European Bauhaus is just being implemented in Croatia. There is a great interest of Croatian experts from both the Faculty of Architecture and from the field of design and the wider circle of experts, and I am sure that they will be involved and that Croatia will be one of the countries that will participate in the project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45278	Here, we have three replicas, please stay. The first is a respected representative called Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45279	Dear Minister, you are now the third minister of this government with the prime minister to whom I ask the same question. How much money did you get from Europe and what did you finance to help with this crisis? You funded this aid that you gave 4 thousand kuna to our workers, which I welcome, but it is a measure that Germany has brought back to the crisis in 2008 when Europe didn't realize it. I don't know what decision this government has made over the past year that hasn't already been visible out there and for which it hasn't gotten the money outside. Making decisions means making decisions about things that are going to happen and taking certain risks, what's going to happen? Instead of giving those four thousand kunas to people who work, they'd end up on the stock market and give them four thousand kunas there. That's quite clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45280	Time. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45281	Thank you, Mr. Representative. I can't figure out from your debate do you think we shouldn't have helped the workers? ... Maybe that's it, maybe we're not. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Will you let me finish? [[Intruder: Please do not respond from the bench.]] So maybe we really shouldn't have done anything, maybe we should have said the funds that were put into our disposal from the mechanism... No thanks, we're not going to spend it because some others have already spent it before us in this way, we've reacted quickly, decisively, effectively, we've prevented the wave of cancellation that everyone has threatened, and even here in this House of High and I can only say and repeat what I said at the beginning of this exhibition, all the luck for our citizens to see, if you don't already see. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45282	The next replica is the distinguished representative Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45283	Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor. Don't bother with one that when it comes here out of respect for HS and the importance of the document is represented by the Prime Minister himself and you as ministers who are actually the creators of this proposal, then the same people would repeat a hundred times that there isn't one, there isn't one or two names. As far as lies are concerned, is it not true that the minimum wage has been increased to more than 1147 kuna, that the basic or minimum 754, and the net salary of 1147 kuna, and is it also false that this government has raised the level of contracting of the projects to 115% and that, at the same time, it has been paid over 50%?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45284	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45285	Thank you, ma'am. MPs. Thank you for reminding you of only part of those achievements we presented, not just today, but in each of our performances and arrivals in front of this High House. I will repeat once again, this recovery mechanism and the resilience we present today is only part of everything that will be realised in the coming years and, of course, ahead of us, negotiations on the Multi-annual Financial Framework and Programming are under way. We have carefully and strategically assessed what is what we will finance from this mechanism. We know that he is specific in terms of the terms of the contract, so the end of 2023 and the deadline for spending the funds. And I'm sure that's what our citizens and society as a whole will feel as an important contribution to the development of our homeland.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45286	Next last replica, the distinguished representative Katica Glamuzina.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45287	Thank you. Minister, you said fine that he wasn't here half of the government to defend this document, but you came from all your portfolios to give us extensive information on this document that you don't want to give us. So give us the document, and you go do your job. There's half the government here today. Minister Beroš, for example, runs an extremely demanding health sector that is deeply affected by the crisis and various other crises in the sector. I'd much rather the minister was at his workplace today and devoted his time to solving these problems than, as you say, not defending this document here, losing his entire working day sitting here for what? For nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45288	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45289	Dear Madam MPs, as we understand the role of this House of High is that we are here to present the work of the Government and you, and through you and our citizens. So we are pleased that we could spend the day and explain what is in this document. However, we would prefer to discuss what we really suggested rather than some comments that actually do not come from this document but sometimes the nature of the debate in this House. I speak for myself now on behalf of my colleague Berosha, but also on behalf of all the colleagues who are here now or have been here this morning. We will always spend as much time in the Croatian Parliament as it takes because we think it is important and that through these discussions we introduce citizens to all of those valuable and good projects that we implement as Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45290	Thank you, Minister. Next individual debate, distinguished representative Vesna Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45291	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honored Ministers or Ministers. As said, Croatia will receive 6.3 billion euros and 49 billion kuna respectively to finance reforms of related investments that speed up and recover and increase the resilience of the economy. Of these, 4 billion and 760 million are projected for the component of two public administrations, the judiciary and state property. Of which, the component amount of two more than 60% goes for the digital transition of society and economy. We'd say great, just like that. If it were transparently indicated which are a particular new unrecycled reform projects and investments in the public administration that will lead to a modern and efficient public administration that will serve the economy and citizens. The reforms further improve the efficiency of public administration mention, among other things, the improvement of employment procedures, the new model of government service wages, public services, digital transformation of conservative bases, functional and sustainable local self-government. When we talk about employment in the state service and public services, we should also talk about the inability to attract and retain professional and capable employees in public administration. Why? Not just for low wages. It's one of the reasons, but one greater reason is the inability to advance the most capable officials in favour, to the harm of the most similar. The public administration should finally be depoliticalised, not that there is a new systemisation and deployment in the management jobs of the most similar, not the most capable. It certainly demotes young, capable officials who then leave the public administration and come up with a negative selection in the public administration. A new system of salaries in the public administration has been discussed for years, and various versions have been collapsing for a very long time and simulations of new salaries. Europe is pushing us to finally pass this Law on salaries in the state administration and public services. If this is a reform, let it be a recycling of old projects, but let's finally see that Pay Law and let it go into the parliamentary procedure. As an investment in the public administration, a centralised system of selection of officials is also listed. It seems to me that it will be the most difficult to implement, for then it will not be possible to employ it by ruling in midwife and uncles. Okay, he'll come up with ways to bypass that centralised employment system, so there'll probably be an act contract. The e-state exam is also listed as an investment. However, this investment, as I have already said to the prime minister, i.e. the replicas, we already have a rule on taking the state exam that Minister Malenica passed and came into force on 1 April 2021 and amending that regulation that will take effect on the same April 1st of the following year. So it's not any reform, it's actually recycling an existing project that I'm assuming already and lived in the Ministry of Justice and Administration. The system is therefore managed by the Ministry of Administration as regards the state examination and processed by the data of the FINA. If the question of FINA is possible that the thing doesn't work, because when we see the founder of nanobit going around the counters and he can't actually register business, then we're all clear, and then we have from FINA's explanation that his founding act is unstandard. Modernisation and further development of state information infrastructure is also an important segment in public administration. However, when we see that every public legal body has its own software and hardware solutions, we will find it difficult to achieve the modernisation and development of the state information infrastructure soon. As for the judiciary, I think that more should be invested in the education and ethical integrity of judges, and less in the justice market in Zagreb and some energy efficiency of the buildings themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45292	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, Prime Minister Ivan Malenica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45293	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Therefore, the Ministry of Justice and Administration under the National Resistance and Recovery Programme will implement certain measures under the component of public administration, justice, state property. As for the activities themselves, we therefore have a further improvement in the efficiency of public administration, modern justice and preparedness for future challenges and preventing and curbing corruption. When we talk about the effectiveness of the public administration, I am pleased that you have commended here the distinguished MPs Find certain projects that are planned under this component. When we speak individually about these projects, therefore, the process of planning reception and carrying out tenders and testing candidates for all bodies of the state administration would be implemented in a more transparent, more objective, and cheaper but also faster way. Therefore, standardised selection tests would be introduced, and the procedure for the state expert examination would be fully digitised. And indeed this project of the state's expert exam was scheduled last year. However, because of the Covid-19 epidemic, we have therefore shifted this to a national plan of resilience and recovery, and we consider it to be extremely important in this part of it to be more transparent, objective, faster means of education for the entire life of state officials and ultimately to be tested when entering the state service. As regards the Law on Salaries here, together with the Ministry of Labour, we have prepared a specific reform measure concerning the regulation of the new Law on Salary in the State Service, but also in the public services through the introduction of the system of pay classes. But also a new system of evaluation of work in the state service and public services. What this outbreak of Covid-19 showed us is the need to edit work from home in part of the technology, so we also envisaged in the recovery and resilience plan, so the introduction of hybrid access to the workplace so called. smart working, therefore, by creating a prerequisite for work from home to ensure all necessary information, communication conditions. It is very important to us, of course, and local self-government. This is where we envisioned a certain reform process, a functional and sustainable local self-government. That goes in the direction of optimizing local self-government. Therefore, establishing certain base data on the capacity of local self-government units as well as creating certain criteria and criteria for the evaluation of local self-government units all for reasons to encourage them to functional integration. As regards justice, therefore, certain reform processes will be implemented in order to reduce the duration of the judicial process, ensure better working conditions and facilitate communication between all judicial stakeholders and create a more quality anti-corruption framework by strengthening all institutions. I would just point out that the National Resistance and Recovery Plan is not the only document nor the only perspective for implementing reform measures, so there is certainly the next multiannual financial framework, and the Ministry of Justice and Administration is therefore also available to the Norwegian financial mechanism, but also to the numerous World Bank projects currently being implemented. As far as changes and reforms within the judiciary are concerned, we are certainly going through amendments to the Law on Procedural Procedure, so where disputes of small values would be conducted by written means without calling for certain debates, and also what the Covid-19 epidemic taught us, therefore, is to strengthen the institution's debate at a distance. We will further strengthen this in this National Resistance and Recovery Plan. What is very important and important to us, therefore, is the strengthening of the peace-making institute, so we are going through the amendments to the Law on Peace and the Law on Administrative Disputes, so that in trade and administrative matters, we are introducing settlement as a prejudicial way of resolving disputes and thus discharging the courts. Within the framework of the National Plan for Resistance and Recovery, therefore further improvement of the Law on Land Books, the harmonisation of Land Books and Catastres. I further believe that it is also important to upgrade in the system of e-communication and e-list the part relating to the publication of all court decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45294	We have replicas. Dear Representative Krunoslav Katičić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45295	Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Minister, the other ministers. Here is the careful reading of this document, in particular this area of concern, which is well-treated as the entire sub-reform measure, which is visible that an additional effort is being made for the justice market project, and my opinion is that, in contrast with the opinions of my colleagues in the opposition, it is a good thing to unite the entire judicial system in one place and I believe that it will improve the efficiency and efficiency of the entire system. So again, no matter what I call you, I ask you to clarify the importance of this unification and when this project will be brought to life in the full sense and full extent of its name to be a square of justice.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45296	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45297	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So, the square of justice is conceived in the context of these changes relating to the Institute of Peace, where actually the Commercial Court, the High Court of Commerce, the Administrative Court and the High Administrative Court would move to the Square of Justice and form a centre for peace. We also care about the market for justice for the reason that through changes to bankruptcy legislation we will make certain steps where, in particular, in proceedings before trade courts and before the High Commercial Court, we would further encourage the effectiveness and efficiency of that part. I must point out that the square of justice is a long-conceived project that has been partially implemented and now through the World Bank project into so-called. The building of the yachthouse where Zagreb grantovnica should be moved. But now through the National Recovery and Resistance plan, we continue to continue. I believe that we will complete this because 50% of all court cases refer to the city of Zagreb and for this reason it is important for us to invest in the infrastructure in the city of Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45298	The second replica is the distinguished representative of Vesna Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45299	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Ministers, the material states strengthening, actually professionalising strategic planning. I wonder if this is by the internal audit system or somehow different and in which body it will be, whether in any ministry or, say, at the Ministry of Finance as it used to be, strengthening the capacity to prepare and implement EU projects. Nowhere is actually mentioned in fact State School for Public Administration, whether it will have some functions or work in some other way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45300	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45301	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Of course, the State School for Public Administration is very important to us especially in terms of the Law on Payments System where we plan through the Law on the Payment System to create a system of lifelong training and education and I hold that the State School for Public Administration is extremely important as the holder of all activities in that body. Certainly through strengthening the capacity to prepare and implement the EU, they are heading towards the public sector as well as towards local self-government. Therefore, the objective is to raise administrative capacity so that European funds can be used to the best possible extent, especially by the coming multi-annual financial framework, and I believe that by preparing through the education of employees working in the public sector, i.e. local self-government units, we will be able to absorb the funds better.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45302	Next replica, distinguished representative Ivan Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45303	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The Honorable Minister Malenica, 2009 was set up in the Republic of Croatia by the Law on Prosecution and Prosecution System. All that has been done in the area of the Department of Prison Probation System in terms of efficiency and availability of IT technology for the past few years, I will only mention the Support Office for Victims and Witnesses using modern IT technologies, electronic surveillance, implementation that has enabled the integration of the health sector with the Department of Prison and Probation System, thus improving the quality of health care of persons in penal institutions are just some of the reforms in which your ministry has given a significant impasse and withdrawn certain European funds that have improved the work of the Administration for the Prison and Probation System.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45304	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Well, I thank everyone for this support especially when we talk about the Support Service for Victims and Witnesses. So we will continue to expand that network so that we can expand all judicial areas to enable, therefore, adequate support for victims and witnesses. The electronic surveillance project is also being prepared. Certainly, through the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, we have provided for certain financial means and for investing in judicial bodies and probation centres. But I'm saying, it's not the National Resistance and Recovery Plan that's the only financial axis where we finance certain projects, so especially for probationary offices. So it's a Norwegian financial mechanism. So we are currently implementing around 700 million kuna projects in the Ministry of Justice and Administration and we are continuing and we are preparing ourselves, of course, for a multi-annual financial framework. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45305	The next replica is the esteemed representative Maria Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45306	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Minister, here I welcome this implementation of state graduation in electronic form, first of all, because this will also contribute to transparency and objectivity, and on the other hand I think the process will be faster in this way and will reduce costs. We know that if the employer points to a professional examination that he is carrying out the costs for the first time, later I am the one who takes the exam, so there will certainly be positive effects there. I am also glad that a new wage system will be established, because it is certain that quality people and conditions for a quality and even better quality public administration and without well-paid civil servants will be difficult to keep them. I hope it spills over the verticals to local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45307	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45308	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Yes, so the digitisation of the state expert exam is certainly something that will contribute to making this whole institute and process more transparent, more objective, cheaper but also faster and will mean certain savings for the employers themselves who sent their employees to education and also for the passing of these state exams. The public administration wage law therefore includes both the state administration and the public sector. So it's a very complex matter, and I believe that in agreement, communication with social partners, we will find the best possible way. We have already established and started dialogues through the Economic and Social Council, which this Government is largely benefiting from dialogue with employers and trade unions, and I believe that we will take great steps through the new Law on Salaries.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45309	The next replica, distinguished representative Mirela Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45310	Dear Ministers, on page 44, is mentioned in the part of the implementation, mentions the normative regulation of the area of lobbying and the development of IT solutions for improving transparency. I asked the prime minister a question this morning and he didn't answer my question. But here's the chance I'm taking, and I'm asking you, you're probably more familiar with the details of the whole document. As regards this IT solution for improving transparency, since when the Law on Local Self-Government was adopted, you reportedly announced that transparency of public money spending would be introduced at least local and regional self-government. Is that what we warned about and what I suggested here personally, but also some other teachers. So, insight, digital insight, he line insight into the spending of public funds absolutely every kuna from the pockets of Croatian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45311	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So you mentioned lobbying, so it's going to be arranged through the lobbying law and that lobbying institute because we believe that there's a great need to arrange that area. And the task force at the Ministry of Administration and Justice has already been formed. As far as your second question is concerned, so within this component that you mentioned, that is, the Central State Office for the Development of a Digital Society is certainly the bearer and the activity that aims to enable all units of local self-government to open and transparent budgets on the principle that individual units have local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45312	The next replica is the esteemed representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45313	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, one of the objectives of the public administration component is further optimization and decentralisation of local self-government. I believe that decentralisation of the state administration is one of the most important segments and future reforms of local self-government and public self-government, public administration. Since this does not mean that every single unit of local self-government can take over certain tasks, so you are talking about a functional merger of local self-government units in one of these objectives. I am interested in how and how and if we could have this proposal that we could allow certain tasks for a particular unit of local self-government to be carried out by a second, larger, stronger administratively-accepted unit of local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45314	Thank you very much, Reverend Bacic. Yes, the government of the Republic of Croatia has done a lot for decentralisation in the past term. So we also have an example, so transfer, of the Office of State Administration's affairs to the county. But when I talk about further centralisation, connecting local self-government units there is very important to establish administrative and other capacities of local self-government units and this is a prerequisite to talk about connecting local self-government units. So the first step is to analyse all capacities of local self-government units and after that we will allow the integration of local self-government units in certain jobs where we would actually allow citizens who are most in the best interest, so we will allow as much quality and simpler and more efficient services as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45315	Dear representative Karolina Vidovic Kristo is next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45316	Thank you. In the Recovery Plan, you focused on phrases about changing the perception of the work of the judiciary as if you wanted to convince the Croats how their judiciary works legally. The problem of justice is not a question of equipment, but of people who pass judgments, their morality and their actions in accordance with the law. The other day, we read that Misho Hrastov, a man who was defended by Karlovac, who was sentenced to prison by the Supreme Court, received a call from Croatia to pay compensation to the family of the dead Serb aggressor soldier in the amount of two and a half million kuna. Tell me, from HDZ and SDP, how much did Poland or France or the Czech Republic pay for the damages for the German soldiers killed on their territory? Is there a history of a situation in which the attacked state devastates aggressor soldiers? Are you aware of what you are doing and what questions will Mr. Minister ask you in the future for this disgrace?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45317	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45318	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So, through the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, there is certainly an emphasis on the judiciary. I pointed out in my opening statement that we are going into certain reform processes that primarily go towards the Institute of Peace, the litigation process, the distance debates, the bankruptcy legislation. We believe that this is important and important especially in this part of Covid epidemic recovery 19. However, I also pointed out that the Recovery Resistance Plan is not the only place through which we, the only document through which we will implement certain reforms, because we are also implementing reforms without the National Recovery Resistance Plan and through the multiannual financial framework and through the Solidarity Fund and through the Norwegian Financial Mechanism. We currently have an action plan to resolve all pending cases, cases older than seven years, to speed up all court proceedings and, of course, we will also pay great attention to the integrity of the judges themselves through strengthening the amendment of the Law on the State Judiciary Council, the State Attorney's Council.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45319	Next individual debate... Here's the signal that we need to take a break for 15 minutes, then we'll be up to 18 and 40. It's 18.25 o'clock. Here we go, colleagues. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 18.40 HOURS]] Next individual debate, the distinguished representative of Boška Ban Vlahek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45321	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. Any additional money that comes to Croatia should be welcomed especially if it will be used wisely. But the recovery mechanism and its adoption is just one opportunity that we need to take advantage of in the best possible way. The fact that the Corona crisis has exposed us to a number of restrictions, but it also referred us to new opportunities. That's why I'd like to notice a few things here. For science and education, 7.5 billion kuna is projected to be 15.3% of total. I don't think that's enough for two reasons. The first is that Croatia missed the operational plan during the last financial period of the European funds to put the possibility of building and upgrading primary and secondary schools throughout Croatia. The state was reluctant to finance it from its budget. Cities and counties didn't have enough money. The need to build or rebuild school facilities must be a priority if we want to be a country of knowledge. Another reason is that it generally invests too little in science and education. According to EUROSTAT, Croatia stands out for growth and development of 1% of GDP. The EU average is 2.2% and your National Strategy targets 3%. With this dynamic, we will not achieve this goal, so the effectiveness of the National Development Strategy itself is questionable. For healthcare, 2.5 billion kuna is estimated to be 5.1% of total. Is it not possible to provide health care with more resources to relieve the state budget of the expenditure it has, for example, the reconstruction of health institutions and the supply of equipment? This would shift to this mechanism so that money would be used to settle debts to major drugstores, draw a line and create an opportunity for strong reforms in the health system, control of public procurement, introduce order and more transparency in payment towards the services provided. The crisis caused by the pandemic of the coronary virus has changed the current paradigm of both the social and economic systems. I agree and welcome investment in the private sector and entrepreneurship. In the economy, it's very important to understand where we are, where we've been and where others are today. Croatian per capital income has increased by 47% over the past 20 years. At the same time, Slovenia, Estonia, Bulgaria, Poland and Lithuania grew by 100 to 120%. In order for us to go to a match with those countries that have overtaken us, we must urgently increase the allocations for growth and development and help entrepreneurship. According to EUROSTAT data from one kuna isolated for the growth and development of four-fifths comes from the private sector. It is therefore important to identify most of the funds to entrepreneurs because they generate growth and development and create new, healthy jobs. In Međimurje we have been working in such a way for years, which is why it is not by no chance that in the year 2020, export has been increased, which today, with an impact of 2.7% on the Croatian economy, generates 4.9% of the total Croatian exports and only 2.6% of the total Croatian imports. And that's why it's Međimurje County that records a foreign trade surplus every year. Today, we have only 15% of export-oriented companies in Croatia, but these companies employ half of all private sector employees, make 62% of total investments and 66% of total economic income, and only the export economy can guarantee stronger economic growth and stronger exports represent stronger GDP. This is why investment in production companies and the chance to keep people in Croatia, to be more competitive in the world. Innovations converted into a quality product guarantee that any company can be successful if it invests its skills and knowledge in the Croatian product. And here you need to direct as much money as you can. Therefore, the availability of money from this mechanism must be studioy with what we really want. And finally, I underline that every crisis is an opportunity, an opportunity to finally introduce in Croatia true and real reforms. Each serious state has led the public policies that have been strengthened by the economic sector extremely seriously. The state must not and must not be an entrepreneur, but must lead public policies in the way of judicial reform, public administration, infrastructure, education, tax policy and thus strengthen entrepreneurship, and this must be our top priority because all indicators today say we are fighting Bulgaria and Romania, not other countries that are more developed. And so, if some indicators are bad, if the environment is bad, then we have to work on ourselves, our abilities and our strength, we have to look for a solution for today and prepare for what's waiting for us tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45322	There is one replica, distinguished representative Romana Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45323	Thank you, Vice President. In your debate you touched the reform of the education system through construction, construction, reconstruction and equipment of pre-school institutions. We're all for modern and super smart kindergartens. I believe they'll be super smart kindergartens, because they're all smart, even smart agriculture. But what people do, what makes the city, they're people, they're jobs. And what will keep young families is a quality preschool system that will allow every child access to kindergarten, and raisers to have normal contracts not on a specified basis and to be said not to go from inside the institution, from kindergarten to kindergarten, to provide support from mangers to school. Because that's how it's actually done for both children and our parents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45324	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45325	Dear colleagues, I thank you for asking. I agree with you, it's a problem that's been laid down for years, and it certainly doesn't solve. As for the quality of pre-school programmes, and the fact is that in Croatia we are facing too many educational groups, and too many children by one educator as well as the problem of frequent changes that you have mentioned on several occasions today, the change of breeders which really affects children as you yourself have said. Therefore, quality in institutions of early and preschool education is an extremely important segment of education and education, since it has a direct impact on the development of the child as an individual and on society as a whole.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45326	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Katica Glamuzina.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45327	Dear President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Since various international studies clearly and adequately show that the covid crisis has affected women significantly more than men, the UN and EU bodies have called this crisis a female face crisis and have been communicating loudly and clearly for months that all national recovery plans must pay particular attention to a more intensive reduction of gender inequality, as these inequalities have further strengthened this crisis. That's what this CD says about a number of documents. EU guidelines for the creation of national plans also clearly state that. But on the side of what the international institutions say recently, a national development strategy has been discussed and adopted in the Croatian Parliament, which also makes it clear in its sixth chapter that all acts of strategic planning stemming from the strategy will have to be implemented keeping in mind, inter alia, gender equality objectives. All these acts shall be listed in Appendix 4. The National Development Strategy. The first on the list is exactly the NPO. It is surprising, then, that this information about the NPO draft that we have received in no place states the word equality in any context, let alone the context of gender equality. On the EU Affairs Committee, Minister Coric made it clear to me that the whole document, which is successfully hidden from both the public and the MPs, does not contain chapters or concepts that are not already mentioned in the draft. Since the whole document was not an opportunity to see, since the Ombudsman for gender equality was not invited to give his own imputence in the creation of NGOs can only assume that not even a full document in all of its mentioned seven hundred pages, nor on any of these pages has been able to include a gender dimension such as the recommendations of all international institutions, NGOs, civil society, and finally our own development strategies. I read the templates of other countries in Germany, Italy, France, Finland, Sweden, etc. And while some of these countries are light years ahead of us in principle mentioning that they will include in their plans measures to achieve gender equality. They've only mentioned it in principle with a few words, and with those few words they've exceeded us because I repeat, this problem is not mentioned in a single word as if we don't even admit it exists. Even though our National Development Strategy in principle states that equality between women and men is one of the highest values of the Croatian constitutional order reflects national identity and that you are careful to the precondition of a competitive and innovative economy. For this equality, however, there is no place in the NPO, and then it is no wonder that the European Year 2020 report for Croatia states that gender inequality in Croatia is one of the highest in the EU. Around the Union, women are particularly affected by the crisis, because they represent a large majority of healthcare workers who are then at greater risk of infection and are mostly women who balance care for others as unpaid work with their other labour obligations. In addition, most single parents are mothers, women eat, who had a whole set of additional problems because of this crisis. Women were more than men without a job, and violence against women was also growing in alarming proportions, especially in the family sequence of lockdowns. Because of all of this, it is extremely important to insist on what is called the so - called “insistence. ” Gender mainstreaming i.e. the need for the birth dimension to be included in all strategic documents that will regulate the exit from the crisis and further development of Croatian society. The Advocate General’s Office for Gender Equality and the Government’s Gender Equality Agency were not invited to give an opinion on this document. The prime minister has today pledged to correct the failure and to contact them and ask for their opinion. I hope they honor that promise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45328	We have two replicas. The first is a respected representative of Rada Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45329	Thank you, colleagues, for this reminder. Namely, there is no European document that does not say that without equal participation of men or women or gender equality there is no democracy either. So we could say in advance that this document. the information on the summary of the document has indeed left the women. It's enough if you look at only component 4 that's talking about the labour market and social protection so the sentence begins, the labour market is affected by the pandemic impact, so if in the search engine so please also colleagues on this right to enter not only equality, they don't have to enter even equality, let them type in the woman, and they'll see that they'll be found so that the woman will be somewhere where the documentation is sought. So it's unacceptable that 50% or 51% of the citizens of this community don't see that they might need recovery, and we know that without women, surely this community won't be as resilient as it would be. It should be. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45330	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45331	Thank you colleagues for your comment, you said that there is no European document that does not talk about this, there should not be a Croatian document that does not talk about it. In particular, given what is stated in the development strategy itself, which is like a roof document to all others. I will point out to everyone here today, I am sorry that colleague Selak Rasdić is not here, the documents listed in the National Development Strategy which should all have a birth dimension, it is easy to find them National No. 13/21, 79 are in the process of adoption. We should all have that, and we should take responsibility to monitor whether these documents and all strategies and plans etc. include, as responsible MPs, react unless it is so.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45332	Next replica, distinguished representative Eric Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45333	Dear fellow Members, my replica is the addition of what she mentioned earlier and drew attention to the distinguished colleague Boric. Do you have any knowledge of the potential financial correlation of funds to be allocated to countries and the existence of a gender dimension in the plans that countries deliver to the European Commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45334	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45335	Clearly, it is clear to all who want to review the EU and Commission pages that more than 50% of the total amount planned to encourage recovery will be intended for modernisation through three different spheres and where special attention will be paid to the right and gender equality which I think would be a very clear signal that the correlation will exist, we can take that money, and we don't, depending on the prime minister and his promise today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45336	Thank you. Next individual debate, the esteemed representative of Domagoj Price.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45337	The Honorable Vice-President of the Assembly, respected colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives, apparently, has also had a severe economic crisis affecting the world and thus the EU. Obviously, even if the EU wants to appear clearly, let go of a strong stimulus for the economy to trigger the economy, in order to overcome the crisis. The crisis itself will likely be seen in the coming years above all will be the immediate growth of public debt. Croatia is particularly within the EU because, according to many statistics, we are one of the poorest EU countries, but this should now be an incentive for deeper reforms. As far as the funds provided for Croatia are concerned, let us hope that they will be spent well and hope to be spent in good time. We all know that we had an earthquake in Zagreb more than a year ago, unfortunately the state has not yet been able to start rebuilding. So we hope that for the next 5 years we will withdraw the funds that are available to us, that we will really use them and that this will boost reforms and economic growth in Croatia. What I think will be a good consequence of the stimuli itself will see how much of this money will be withdrawn into the Croatian economy, how much will be used. However, as much as the consequences will be used will still be the growth of the state’s income. If we withdraw, for example, 5 billion kuna each year, one part of that 5 billion kuna will end up in the state budget as a result of the state's income. Our taxes are high, so it's logical that some of the money will end up in the state, in the state's register. I hope the government uses it in a way to cut taxes. Tax discharge is actually our biggest guarantee that it's an investment in the economy. We saw inefficientness and corruption in state-owned companies, we saw the issue of corruption in state subsidies. What we can be sure of in the event of tax discharge that this money will indeed go to the Croatian economy and will go to Croatian citizens. So in case we withdraw one part of this money, and obviously we want at least one piece, let's hope as much as possible, when part of that funding sits in the state budget, I hope that the government will use it for tax discharge. First of all, we must always return to the tax exemption of Croatian citizens' salaries. The SDP itself suggested that the tax base, i.e. up to 5,000 kuna, would not be taxed on income tax, thus increasing the income of the average Croatian family to up to 500 kuna. So I hope that some of the money that will indirectly end up in the state budget as a consequence of these investments will go into tax relief. What is especially important to society is that we go towards full employment. Full-time employment isn't the same thing as low unemployment, it's two different things. Full employment can certainly be achieved if we invest money and conduct additional education for our citizens. As already mentioned at EU level today, 11% of adults participate in education every year. At Croatia level, it is 3.5%. So three times lower. The EU aims to reduce that only 15% of the population lacks some skills. Unfortunately, in Croatia, the level is twice as high. So it should certainly support the development of education in Croatia, which would increase the level of education among Croatian citizens, but it would be good for the Croatian economy because citizens would be more competitive on the labour market. As for the tourism mentioned here, we can ask whether this or that assistance in one way or another helps tourism itself? But Croatia is a country with 1/6 economies dependent on tourism. We have become extremely dependent on this tourist branch, which, of course, can be a problem for us in the long term, and even now in this economic crisis, we are affected precisely because we are well dependent on tourism. What I'd like to point out in the end is, we've been listening to both ministers and MPs today, we've heard of course some positive things that should be done, reforms with this money. We should have done these things objectively independently of this money in the last 10 years or more. Let's hope it does. Unfortunately, we have to see who will manage this money, who will lead it. It will be led by politicians and bureaucrats, because We need to be careful. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45338	On behalf of the promoter, the Honorable Minister, Nikolina Brnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45339	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, honourable parliamentary representatives, respected colleagues and colleagues, tourism and hospitality, as you have heard, have been severely affected by the consequences of the pandemic both in Croatia and in Europe, but also in the world. The recovery of tourism and the recovery of hospitality and the re-employment and creation of jobs is not possible without significant investment. However, all these investments must contribute to the transformation of Croatian tourism into a more sustainable model. That is why, at the beginning of preparations for the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, we have already gathered the entire tourism sector at the end of last year, all the stakeholders in tourism to see what projects they can require, or which are green and which are digital. We sat down and made a plan. As the fellow representative said, Croatia would disagree, Croatia is a tourist country, thank God that it is a tourist country and Croatia will always be a tourist country because of its rich cultural heritage, precisely because of its natural resources, because of national parks, nature parks, everything we have and we need to know how to guide it well. The tourism sector in Croatia has been faced for years with the lack of high value added tourist products, the problem of high seasonality and the negative effects of excessive tourism in the most developed destinations in the short period of the tourist season. On the other hand, in most of the year accommodation facilities are under-filled, which is a problem of precisely sustainability and other accompanying activities, as well as of the entire local economies. This plan for recovery and resilience is precisely an opportunity to change the paradigm of sun and sea-reliant seasonality as well as excessive tourism in tourist's most developed destinations. It is also an opportunity for a stronger development of continental tourism with a focus on rural areas as well as on investment in high added value tourism products such as health, sports, congressional, ecotourism for which we have ideal conditions both on the continent and on the coast. The National Recovery and Resistance Plan will finance projects that contribute to economic recovery by directing investment in green and digital transition and the development of sustainable tourism. So we have the opportunity to reform the system and the European means through which we can do so. The Ministry of Tourism and Sports is planning to present to the Croatian Parliament the reform basis for the strategic direction of tourism in the coming decade it is a strategy for sustainable development of tourism by 2030. For measures proposed by the strategy, a strategic environmental impact assessment will also be developed for the first time. The implementation of the measures and activities of the strategy itself will be supported by the implementation of the projects itself, some of which are just planned for investments under the National Recovery and Resistance Plan. Investments from a sub-component of sustainable, innovative and resistant tourism worth 2.2 billion kuna will now focus on developing competitiveness throughout the year, such as health, sports and congress tourism. Then raising the quality and category of existing accommodation facilities in hotel tourist companies. Transformation of the accommodation capacities of small tenants to family hotels and pensions and the green transition of the world's largest charter fleet. Quality energy efficiency projects, the use of renewable energy sources and the circular economy, which is currently speeding up green transition and increasing the sustainability and resilience of tourism entrepreneurs themselves. The investment to strengthen the competitiveness of entrepreneurs and fostering green and digital transition of the tourism sector is fully intended for the private sector and aims to boost the recovery and resilience of entrepreneurs throughout the tourism value chain, including related activities in particular industrial production. The projected beneficiaries are both small and medium-sized enterprises in the activities of tourism, as well as catering. The investment regional diversification and specialisation of Croatian tourism is intended for both the public sector and the private sector for investment in public tourism infrastructure as a prerequisite for the development of more competitive tourism products. The investment improves the tourism eco-system and strengthens the capacity of systems for sustainable and sustainable tourism is fully aimed at education of human potential in tourism and hospitality by investing in the development and implementation of education programmes at all levels. Expected results we plan to achieve Thank you, thank you very much. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45340	Thank you. We have several replicas, but first one injury to the Rules of Procedure, Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45341	Thank you very much. He's been injured. 238. Dear Minister, yes, when you refer to a respected representative at least have the dignity, you know who told you something because this is... Minister, so have the dignity to refer to who said it, have the courage to say his name, so that we can talk about it, not to be a representative of the umm esteemed or representative of the umm esteemed. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45342	This was an injury, it wasn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure, more replicas, and you get a warning. Let's go with the replica, she's the first distinguished representative of Ljubica Maksimchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45343	Thank you very much Vice-President Dear Minister, Croatia is of course a tourist country and has a long tourist tradition. Tourism represents a significant share of our economy's GDP, and... poses a threat certainly to the economy not only of our country but of all tourist destinations, which is particularly visible at the time of this pandemic Covid-19. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] We are among the leading European tourist destinations and we certainly need to stay there. This grants through the National Recovery Plan in the public sector for the recovery of the tourism economy will certainly ease the crisis and strengthen tourism. But what I am particularly interested in is continental tourism or rural areas and what concrete projects, what can we expect in continental tourism?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45344	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45345	Thank you, well-respected MPs. So, as we have said, what will be the objective of this entire National Recovery and Resistance plan is also investment in high added value products. Among other things, it is in development and health tourism. As a concrete project, they can single out one of the examples of these investments that are based on one of the tourism's least developed areas in the Republic of Croatia, which is the exploitation of carbon sources for the purpose of the therapeutic centre. The only institution in Europe that uses oil products for skin and rheumatical problems in therapeutic, wellness and spa purposes, investment in extended therapeutic and accommodation facilities, the introduction of so-called Smart rooms. The investment provides for the creation of a new photovoltaic power plant for the needs of existing and new capacities that will reduce electricity consumption, as well as photovoltaic power plants, the implementation of a new IT system, strengthening, research and development at prevention, reduction of dermatological problems and the project is sustainable due to a unique approach to the use of natural resources. So these are examples of health tourism that we will also develop in continental and rural areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45346	The next replica is the esteemed representative Danica Baricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45347	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Minister, given the importance of tourism on the Croatian economy, the fact that 2.2 billion kuna has been provided in part of the National Recovery and Resistance Plan for Tourism, which you have now fully informed us about. When compared only to the previous financial framework for tourism, we did not even have this amount at the time. The implementation of the plan includes the allocation of grants to the private and public sectors in order to recover the tourism economy from the Covid-19 crisis. Congratulations, Minister, I congratulate the Government of the Republic of Croatia on its wise decision because if we have to recover anything, we must recover tourism. Since I come from Split-Dalmatia County tourism is on our knees, residents in my county live mostly of tourism. For us, this National Recovery and Resistance Plan in this part means a lot, and we want to get out all the stronger from this. [[Intruder: Time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45348	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45349	Thank you, well-respected MPs. It is precisely the intensity, and therefore, the main investment is to strengthen the competitiveness of entrepreneurs, and to encourage a green and digital transition that is entirely intended for the private sector alone. As an example of this one project, it could indicate the reconstruction of the 3 star camp into 4 stars, where we will reduce the capacity of the camp due to an increase in quality by 30%, but it also increases capacity, capacity, then the consumption of energy that decreases, water consumption that decreases, circular management by introducing a water purification system, and overall, means also demand and cultural and green characteristics that are very important for the development of such private projects and investments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45350	Next replica, distinguished representative Krunoslav Katičić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45351	Mr. Chairman and the Honorable Minister. Here is what has already been said several times, 2.2 billion grants for development are provided for means of sustainable, innovative and sustainable tourism. The results so far suggest that our tourism is real, Croatian tourism is resistant and adaptable. I also believe that these resources should be allocated proportionately and regionally to the entire area and all branches of Croatian tourism. I hope that when you adopt the final document you will include it in that document.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45352	Thank you, Your Honor, for this very reason, the envisaged reform aims to establish an effective and organisational and legal framework for managing the development of sustainable tourism. So the first step will be to collect data and build on them all scientific backgrounds and analyses that will become a tool for managing public policies. The second step is to define clear policies based on scientific backgrounds, or where a full reform will be achieved, and the third through which tourism law will be established which will constitute a framework for the monitoring and development of tourism. So, the goal is also through the sustainability index itself to make a detailed development of possible high products of additional value so throughout the Republic of Croatia both on the continent and on the coast. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45353	Next replica, distinguished representative Branko Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45354	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Ministers, you said that hospitality and tourism are particularly affected by this Covid crisis and not only in the Republic of Croatia but also in the world. However, the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia did much to preserve jobs by granting support for job conservation and these support started in March last year. So far, about 10 billion kuna plus contributions have been secured for wages, and significant funds have gone right into the activities of catering and tourism. So far, it has been said and figures are that about 100,000 employers and about 600,000 workers who use one such support. So here's all the thanks on behalf of all those who work in hospitality and tourism.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45355	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45356	Thank you very much esteemed MPs, we have always been interested in what you said and at the beginning, tourism is a strategic activity of the Republic of Croatia and should be directed as such. For the first time now we have the resources available from the National Recovery and Resistance Plan where we can direct tourism not to happen but to manage the detailed development of certain tourist destinations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45357	Next replica, the esteemed representative Maria Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45358	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Ministers, here we are witnessing that in the last few years, more and more has been investing in continental tourism and that it is showing better and better results, but I think that we can do even more especially in gastro tourism, which our country has, I think, a special offer and we can be really very competitive there. I would like to know whether the basis of these reforms that are envisaged and in this segment will be invested in continental tourism and whether there will also be an offer in this direction because I think we can achieve better results as regards increased average consumption per guest, so I would like to know whether the projects are also planned in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45359	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45360	Thank you very much for asking. Therefore, from both the two investments and the first investment relating to strengthening the competitiveness of entrepreneurs and the promotion of both green and digital transitions and other investments relating to tourism diversification and specialisation of tourism offers, both also relate to the development of continental and rural tourism. And we certainly kept an eye on all the stakeholders in the tourism sector on all these elements that you have just listed in the development and ecotourism and gastro tourism and sports tourism. So these are all the elements that enter into these investments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45361	Next replica, the esteemed representative of Martina Grman Kizivat.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45362	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister, it is undeniable that we are a tourist country, it is undeniable that we have the natural beauty perhaps even the most beautiful in Europe, colleague Jelkovac said that we are also a desirable gastro-destination, you are talking about rural tourism and then there is a problem. Rural tourism should have several preconditions. The first condition is that people live there. Our rural area is impoverished, and as far as gastro-destination without local food is concerned, there will be no gastro-destination. I wonder how you want to encourage rural tourism if the fact is that people from rural areas are moving out, and agriculture is growing on our knees every day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45363	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45364	Thank you very much. This is exactly the idea and investment itself so that the agricultural sector itself will be included in the regulation of these projects, i.e. investments itself. The idea is therefore also from field to table, so to include absolutely all stakeholders to be in development and to be users of these funds and investments in the community are being added. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45365	Thank you, Minister. We're going to the next debate. The next individual debate is the esteemed representative of Martina Grman Kizivat.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45366	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministers, Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, today the National Recovery and Resistance Plan is another one in a series of documents that are reportedly going to be released by millions and billions. In my presentation, I will look back at the area of agriculture. In fact, even today on the Committee on Agriculture, we could hear the numbering and release of millions, but the situation in agriculture before and after this document will be the same. The SDP has repeatedly pointed out that the situation in agriculture is alarming. While the government and the ruling are throwing numbers, here's something to say about it. Two out of three sugars are irrevocably extinguished, the number of sugar beet producers has been reduced, fewer milk producers, small and medium milkers are reducing premiums, of course livestock production is generally on their knees, fruit and vegetables will only be hit due to the genius of the production rules, on the production-related support provided, slightly unattainable production targets. We have a series of farmers who are struggling with payment, so in my area where I come from, there are a large number of farmers who can't charge for dedicated rape. I recently talked about them, read their names, amounted to the amounts they sought from Agrok's nature and Sedlic's group. Their story got a court epilogue, and until all this is resolved, I wonder what the government did to help these farmers survive? Absolutely nothing, like everyone is left to themselves. Furthermore, the European Green Plan in Croatia is not yet a word or a word. All that the Ministry of Agriculture sends to the parliamentary procedure is to comply with EU directives or comply with the laws with the delay of 2-3 years, so we had a whole set of laws of compliance with the state inspectorate, only nearly 3 years late. And that's not the end of it. For example. The food law isn't even in the parliamentary procedure yet. But when the Ministry of Agriculture and write some law, then we have a seed law where there's no association that hasn't gotten on its feet because of this scandalous law. Today, the Prime Minister also mentioned the commission, something regulated by the law in 2015. and what was done more than 5 years ago.? Absolutely nothing. By the way, after 5 years. You've concluded that the law is bad. So you needed five years. I don't want you to end it, so congratulations. It is not a problem whether the law and the view of the law is good or bad but the fact that a new legislative framework is now being announced, and the NPOO refers to the period '21-'26. By the time the new law is passed, and it is questionable how much resources can be withdrawn, I'm afraid nothing. So, for a reason, I wonder if that shot was empty? And that's not the end of it. The commission, imagine, teaches at the Faculty of Law, and in Croatia it has not been implemented for 30 years, it is a pure absurd. When we mention the absurdity, we can't mention a farming strategy that will only be adopted in the '20-30 period, it will not be adopted until at least 2022, so 2.g. They go into the wind, they're gone, nothing. It is in the fact that the Ministry of Agriculture adopts the Law on unfair commercial practice in the food supply chain 2018. And then he commits himself to make an impact assessment of that same law, and today in '21, they haven't made an impact assessment, and they're already going to amend and supplement that same law. So they're not able to do what they're doing to themselves, and then how do we believe that this recovery plan will bring something? In conclusion, the paper gentlemen suffers all sorts of things, and so is what we have today at the hearing. Our small and medium OPGs won't get anything again, zero. Too little support is directed at agriculture that should be strengthened and improved by our agriculture. This is not a recovery plan, but unfortunately a plan for further destruction of agriculture and the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45367	We have several replicas, the first respected Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45368	Thank you. Hey, buddy, we're talking NPOO. If we're talking about a national plan, should we talk about a regional plan? If we are talking about helping Croatia, perhaps we should help a region, perhaps a region that you would recognize, which once had a very developed processing industry, perhaps a sugarcan, which once had a very strong manufacturing industry, which once had a very developed industry in general, let's say "Borovo", let's say "Đuro Đaković", let's say "Analite", let's say it could be listed by tomorrow. I don't know which one of you, does that tell you anything about the region we're talking about, and here we're talking about, about sea tourism that we need to help, and we're not talking about maybe a region that's already been devastated before... HDZ's recovery, and now we're going to devastate it further with recovery from the EU. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45369	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45370	Thank you. A colleague of Hajdukovic's when you tell the region, yes. At the beginning when you started talking, you reminded me of the Slavonia that used to be and then you know what happened? HDZ came to power there and now there's nothing there, I guess every factory could have been shut down. In particular, I come from Slatina, there is no company that has not shut down, there used to be a farm called "Senkovac" one of the strongest pig farms, it was "Gay", it was "Klasje" etc. I don't want to tell you now. Sugar, yeah. The town of Virovitica from my county was a sweet town, now it's just a town with bitter taste in its mouth. Of course, who's there in power? And HDZ. And then we wonder what's wrong with Slavonia? And who's in charge? HDZ. I don't think this recovery plan will help anyone, least of all Slavonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45371	The next replica is the distinguished representative Marina Opaček Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45372	Thank you. Dear colleagues, if I have heard correctly in my debate, you mentioned the European Green Plan of 2019. which is an important strategic document for the development of agriculture in which the Green Plan policy guidelines are given, including the "From Field to Table" and "Sustainable Agriculture". How far in this recovery plan do you think the guidelines for this green EU plan and the "From Fields to Table" strategy have been incorporated? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45373	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45374	Thank you, colleagues. The European Green Plan is a key document for all EU members, of course not for the Republic of Croatia. This is nothing in the NPOO and what little they wrote is what I said “paper suffers all sorts of things. ” Of course, a lot of stories and a lot of everything will be absolutely nothing, although I must point out once again that is the European Green Plan where Europe is thought to become an independent European climate continent by 2050, but Croatia obviously has little time, so by 2050 we may do something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45375	The next replica, the last, distinguished representative, Erik Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45376	Dear colleagues, I come from Primor, so I don't have any special knowledge about what you're talking about. But in my town, another 1800 and some years at the paper factory, according to the Labour Order, it was shared on Fridays exactly in so many hours. And you've mentioned farmers who are from your neighborhood asking for money because they've turned in a sine in which I barely know what it means no but I can't imagine how they didn't get the money for it, I don't think you can tell me any more about it because it's really how you supported my, my curiosity.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45377	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45378	My colleague Fabianic, I thank you very much for this, so I will now take the opportunity to read. Ranko Krnjajić, Antun Marošević, Željko Tušek, Miroslav Tušek, Miroslav Tušek, Luka Genge, Ivo Bezec, Zvonimir Shantak, Miroslav Rastija, Luka Mikić, Ljubisa Mikić, Ljubisa Bulajić, Mladen Virovac, Vlado Reščić, Marko Valpovac, Darko Vukelić, Mateo Bilašić, Slobodan Stjepanović, Ernesto Chapo, Vlado Špoljarić, Ivan Grgurić, Tomica Pleša, Cedomir Reves, Dragan Milišić, Zoran Ninčević, Edi Miljesić, Ivanka Miljesić, Luka Župan, Jure Župan, Marko Komesarović, Ivan Janjic, Josip Katalinić, Miroslav Kokorić, Sopranka d.o.o.o.o. etc. It's a list of damages looking for 7 million and 118 thousand kuna. They spoke to Minister Vukkovic, but of course there was no help, no hearing. I thank you for this question.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45379	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Marijana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45380	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I will eventually sum up perhaps a part of this debate through the consideration given to this national plan by the employers' association, so their main economist, Ivo Tomic, and some, some of the thesis we heard from Vuk Vukovic on behalf of the Voice of Entrepreneurs. So here we heard several times during the debate, and we kept saying that it was inappropriate, therefore, that a summary of such an important document would go into the debate, so these associations of employers, associations of entrepreneurs. It is therefore necessary to give the whole document to the Assembly MPs for insight. We saw him here today, as I said in the halls under the hands of such a secret person at the advisor of the prime minister, Savic. So this can't possibly be and can't be the Prime Minister's document. This is a document for all of us. The parliamentary representatives are therefore elected representatives in the highest representative body. The non-transparency itself in making documents and negotiations with the Commission can only be driven, can only lead to non-transparency in the subsequent distribution of spending. They also say in their view that the Committee on Finance and Budget itself should be given an insight into the overall financial structure of the document, not only the rough financial framework by individual components, because other than the potential direct impact on the budget through the use of grants instead of budgets for certain purposes, the recovery and resilience mechanism also carries the future tax burdens for the Commission to lend funds to recover from the coronary crisis in the end. They also say in their review what I have been saying, so we must stop with the mantra as we have negotiated most of all the countries in the EU. We did, it's good that we did, but the main reason why we got the most funding is our general economic lag and the depth of the fall caused by the coronary crisis. The employers' association is like, the HUP as a social partner should be involved in the process of making from the very beginning. Under Parliament and EU Council regulation, the recovery and resilience plan must be properly explained and supported. In particular, the following elements will be identified, a summary of the consultation process carried out in accordance with the national legal framework of local and regional authorities, social partners, civil society organisations, youth organisations and other relevant stakeholders for preparation and, where available, the implementation of the plan and how the inputs of stakeholders are maintained in the plan. This approach also points out strongly the Annual Sustainable Growth Strategy 2021, indicating that a strong dialogue with the social partners is necessary to ensure the ownership of each individual country over the recovery and resilience plan. As I said earlier, there was an excuse whether the presentations were held, we heard the answer, there were 2-3 presentations with the employers' association, but these presentations were actually one-sided, one-way, they couldn't possibly be understood as consultations and co-operation on making this document. The Croatian Employers' Association also sought to present the necessary structural reforms necessary for the transformation of the business environment and the investment climate in Croatia. This is indeed the only way to increase competitiveness and long-term resilience. The plan is therefore not aimed at them, therefore, towards recovery, but at financing current budgetary spending. So, public sector projects that have not been used are listed for years, tens of years in some other plans and strategies. The association has also prepared proposals for willing private investments that would be realised alongside the EU co-financed by the total value of 23 billion kuna, given that their realisation could trigger at least another 35 billion kuna. So that would be one contribution to this document. Finally, their positions are also presented to the representatives of the European Commission and the OECD and the largest European employers' association Businesseurope. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45381	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45382	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues. I will, of course, focus on the area of health care. We will all agree that our goal, our desire, our provision of an accessible, accessible, functional, financially sustainable and efficient public health system. However, health care is cramping in the problems that have existed for years, further deepened by the pandemic, but the necessary reforms are not being implemented and we do not see any indication of how they will be dealt with by government. And the prime minister himself said this recovery plan is a tool for reform and transformation. The nation's health and health is an over-the-counter issue, and the government and the resolute ministry can't do it alone, and obviously they don't know. The opposition constantly offers its assistance, we impose session topics and on the parent board, we have an important session tomorrow, we offer proposals and solutions, and we are welcomed by such an important document of the National Plan and Health Recovery on only six pages. I didn't get an answer to the question, Prime Minister, so maybe Minister Beros will explain later. So are calls to all health institutions in the Republic of Croatia, meaning in all units of local and regional self-government to respond to this recovery plan with their ideas, with their projects? I'm also interested in what criteria have these projects been selected, how many of these interested people actually came back? Why are these projects concentrated on several KBCs, KB Dubrava, KB Mercury, Sisters of Mercy, Split, and let's say from general hospitals only the General Hospital of Varazdin in the 3rd election unit nothing? Of course, I'm not jealous of the Varazdins, they're all ours, my neighbors, but a little bit of it smells like a political criterion. I checked the health care facilities in my constituency in Međimurje, Krapina-Zagorje County have more projects, they are interested, but they have not received any calls to report on this plan, let alone that they have accepted projects. A few sentences in this summary sound nice, will continue to modernise the hospital system, plan human resources development, equipment for medical-technology equipment, comprehensive digitisation, strengthening of daily hospitals and reducing waiting lists. However, no dynamics are mentioned, ways to implement the objectives of measures, i.e. these implementation programmes, or a detailed allocation plan of these 2.5 billion kunas. With regard to primary health care, she is burdened with unequal distribution by regions and by the number of patients, her colleagues are stifled with administration, in the hospitals of family medicine are practically not able to deal with their patients, let alone by prevention, they say so themselves, while at the same time burdening the expensive hospital health system, especially on weekends, when an appropriate arrangement with primary health care would send out the hospital system. Why aren't family colleagues stimulated to join in group practices, after several hospitals with a common sister or administrator? Has anyone from the ministry sat down with them and motivated them and seen where the problems were, why is there no more group practice? I also didn't see in the distribution of funds to improve palitative care, and that's also necessary. Health care professionals are unhappy at all levels, are burdened with work on several workshops, are underrated, without value of their work, hospital service prices are too low. The fact that medical staff is missing and it is unclear how and during which period the state will stop or stimulate the remaining health care professionals in the Republic of Croatia or allow for a more balanced distribution across the Republic of Croatia. It's a good thing this recovery plan included a centrally funded specialization, 11% of children don't have primary pediatrician, but even on the board we've only gotten the information that it's 500 million kuna, and how much specialization, where it's going to be, in which period, that we haven't got anything. The central preparation of all... preparations planned in seven hospitals or clinics, however large savings would be to make central preparations at all hospitals, let's say that more hospitals merge, Čakovec-Varaždin and central preparation, such as chemotherapy, there would be considerable funds invested since still part of these particularly expensive medicines would not be spent and thrown away. Health debts are rising at gun speed. In this document, the biggest blame is on hospitals owned by the county, and money swallowers are clinics. Unfortunately, we still have a nacaradium system where hospital founders are in the county, and on the other hand, the ministry and the HZZO determine the limits on how much money an institution will receive, who knows what the limits are, and there is still no order on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45383	We have several replicas, the first respected representative Eric Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45384	Dear colleagues. Therefore, the document itself discusses the transformation of the hospital system in a way that cites both functional integration and specialisation of institutions, but with the preservation of the availability of healthcare. I mean, joining integration in the rule of institutions means safe and I suppose and shutting down some departments, which is essentially contrary to the principle of availability of health care. So, I, who am from Rijeka, need to operate on laparoscopic gallstones whether I can do it in Rijeka or have to travel to Pula, Rovinj or Osijek, so that even that or something will definitely come up. However, the question is whether the parent board of HS can consider this before the final proposal for a decision is made, at least that the criteria which will not be only distance from the hospital or, for example, are discussed. The population number?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45385	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45386	Thank you very much. Here's about the masterplan of hospitals, functional integration, integration of mergers, etc. It has been said for years, the fact is that what you said is, so in principle, it is proportionally proportionate to the availability of health care, if you remove a department or hospital somewhere, of course, that the resident in that area will be more difficult to get some kind of service in a remote area. I hope that we on the parent board will discuss all these important issues. We are indeed imposing a pace and looking for thematic sessions, and in any case it must not be the only criterion for abolishing or individual hospitals or individual departments just how far away one hospital is from the other, so as far as I don't know, there are residents of one county or another, but it is seen how many people are gravitating which hospital, how much of the patients are turning, how educated people are, how many services are provided, whether there are accreditations of the institution, which is the existing fit, existing equipment, etc. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] It'll have to be taken care of.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45387	Next replica, the esteemed representative of Martina Grman Kizivat.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45388	Thank you, Vice President. Well, my colleague Maric, although I don't come from the health sector, you mentioned a term I have to admit interested in, it's a group practice in primary health care. Can you explain to me what is, how is being implemented, what are their advantages? A little bit on that, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45389	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45390	Thank you very much. So, group practice or group work, the concept that meets is that when you type it into a computer, which has actually been real for several years, however, I don't think it's present enough. What's this about? So, for example, Health care, you can have group work or group practice several nurses, such as dental medicine or several medical family medicine where teams, so I don't know, five doctors or there were examples and three doctors team up in this group practice, usually have one additional, so let's say the sixth, nurse. It'd be good, I talked to my colleagues from Varazdin County, from our county, to have an administrator. So, that sister can do education, the administrator can do this great work of administration, which is a huge problem, preventive programs, joint doing some jobs, replacing, for example, sick leave, for an annual, one fantastic thing but not used enough, I'm afraid.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45391	Next replica, distinguished representative Ivan Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45392	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Representative Maric, you come to the health system where you work daily, I'm sure you'll agree that the health administration is very much involved in the renewal of diagnostic equipment, but as they said, the greatest wealth of the Croatian healthcare system is its healthcare professionals. What is definitely a problem, it is this geographical distribution where we have major problems, so in a relatively small space more health institutions and, for example, in the southern part of Croatia, it is not such a situation and these functional mergers are definitely needed to be more experts in one place. In Finland, three times the government fell when it came to reforming the health system, it's a very sensitive issue, but I'd say, I'll tell you that the current salary of the doctor is under supervision and that's over, 130 to 14 000 kn in KB Dubrava So, given the overall situation in Croatia, I would say that the salaries are within the health system. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] when it comes to good health care professionals. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45393	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45394	Thank you very much. Didn't I hear the last word, that they were good? ... So listen, now go outside and tell your colleagues that they're very good, I think, when you compare some interests with others in Croatia, then we could argue, but when you compare with your colleagues only in the surrounding countries, I don't think our colleagues would really agree. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] As far as this functional integration is concerned, one is functional integration and one is integration, integration, separation of departments, the abolition of hospitals that are also spoken of, so I'm stressing again, so more criteria should be taken into account. One is the equipment of hospitals, the construction of individual buildings, the knowledge that employees of a particular hospital have, so that's all things, so it doesn't matter if now they're Chakovec-Varaždin 15 km, it's important that we, the Chakovec Hospital, are over 80% of the population gravitatingly taken care of, and then we stop right now? I don't think so. And I agree that, let's say, in the south, there's too little dispersion in hospitals and maybe, Well, at the end of the line, you have a few hills in Zagreb, no, does it take so many? [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Maybe, maybe not. Thank you. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45395	Thank you. The next debate, on behalf of the promoter, is Prime Minister Willy Beros.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45396	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Parliamentary MPs, the Parliamentarians. So, the health resort is we have to admit it, among the most exposed in the midst of this pandemic that is global and it is quite clear that we have to do everything to speed up recovery and in some way ensure the resilience of this system, both at these times and even more significantly in the future. What I would like to do now is answer some of the questions so far that have been made from this pay phone, which refers to the criteria that we have chosen in this recovery and resilience plan and I must say that this is an extremely complicated process where we have sent to all health institutions queries to report their projects and over 500 have come to the Ministry of Health, and therefore one commission has been formed that evaluated all these projects. Just because these projects would not be a wish list, we had certain criteria that were present in the selection of these projects and these criteria were a focus on certain reform steps as well as the degree of preparedness of the project documentation itself. We wanted to avoid reporting some projects that might not be justified or would require a long period of time, so their realization would be questionable. We have defined about 23 projects from this point on, with the fact that I have to admit that the list was longer, but during numerous discussions with the European Commission, some things have been changed, some things have been added, among other things the idea was at the beginning and the revitalisation of the Immunological Institute in Zagreb, however, just given the time period that requires resolving the legal doubt about the immune one, it was said by the European Commission that this might not be the best way of funding, so we have decided today to mention the methods of financing, and we have proposed and included only those projects that are in some way real. When we talk about the same thing, I will say that we have stuck to five sub-components or reform steps and these are improving the efficiency, quality and availability of the health system in all three segments and primary health care and secondary and tertiary. As we have already established in the Health Protection Act the possibility of establishing mobile hospitals and mobile pharmacies, especially given the recent experience with the earthquake in Sisak-Moslavina County and the need for such mobile and mobile pharmacies to operate, these have been projects that are among the ines involved in this plan that is aimed at strengthening the resilience of the health system. We also included the construction and equipment of clinical isolation units at the Infectious Diseases Clinic, digital imaging in KBC Split and Dubrava, the building and equipment of the central operating block in Varazdin, where the commission sought us with regard to the intensity of the same project, certain details relating to the time period of implementation of the same and the preparation of documentation. Fortunately, they were ready in Varazdin, so this project was included in the programme itself of recovery and resilience. Furthermore, according to the National Strategic Framework against Cancer and the second most important challenge after the covid epidemic at the moment, which is oncological diseases, I think is of great importance precisely in the context of continuing the activities of this national strategic framework, the acquisition of equipment for prevention, diagnostics and treatment of cancer patients, so that we finally resolve the situation of lack of radiation devices, selective surgery, radiosurgery that exists at the moment in the Republic. The funds for this purpose amounted to HRK 640 million. Furthermore, in this context, we have proposed the acquisition of equipment for the establishment of the National Oncology Network and the National Oncology Database, which is of paramount importance in the planning and monitoring of treatment of cancer patients. When it comes to the introduction of a system of strategic human resources management, you mentioned specializations, of course the funding base is our five-year specialisation plan and given the importance of the elements in the framework of the profession will be assessed which specialization will have priorities. Here are just some of the projects that there are 23, the criteria were more than clear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45397	We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Maja Grba Bujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45398	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, honourable ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to get out of this topic a little bit, but I'm very interested in it since there's been a lot of talk in the last few days about big drug debts. Today, the prime minister here for this speaker announced that you have organised a meeting today between Minister Maric and you, so since we could hear it will be left without medication, there will be none of this, every time you have warned or said there will be no shortage of drugs, that this will all be resolved together so that our citizens can be safe, these are the words that the prime minister has repeated, so please give us if you can and if you can tell us what you agreed with the majors today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45399	Well, Madam Parliamentarian, thank you for asking. Yeah, the big drug talks were extremely complex, and like I said, we've been talking for the past few weeks, and today another step has been taken to solve this problem. And I will say that this government has been determined to address these problems for decades, but the covid crisis has of course highlighted them at this point and they have escalated the costs. We have done everything within the framework of the financial opportunities of the general budget to find the funds that we have offered today at a meeting of representatives of the wholesalerry. They agree with the above-mentioned repayment plan by the end of the year and agree to regular further supply of medicines to all Croatian hospitals. However, it is clear that this is only the first step in resolving this complex issue. Without the necessary reform of the health system, financial stability of the health system will not be necessary. Therefore, as minister, I say we will start reforming as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45400	Next replica, the esteemed representative Ivan Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45401	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. The covida-19 pandemic has shaken the economy at global level as never before, the Republic of Croatia health system has adequately acted in this very challenging situation and since the pandemic has been going on to open certain issues, but at no point has there been a problem with protective equipment, when tests were to be validated at no time missing tests, now the vaccine despite the problems at European level is an increasing fissure of the Croatian population. When the National Cancer Plan was adopted, some laughed when I said it was a big day for Croatia and if we look at the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, then we see all these numerous investments. I'm just going to mention linear accelerators that are essential to the treatment of cancer patients.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45402	Time. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45403	Thank you, Mr. Parliamentary Representative. As I said earlier, the National Strategy Plan against Cancer itself, I think even in this respected House, would have been just a wish list without the possibility of finding financial resources for its realization. It is therefore a real happiness that at this time we have this opportunity to plan and use resources within the overall scope of the oncology plan over 800 million kuna, which I believe is only the beginning of the meal we have other funding options that will base Croatia's fight against cancer because, with the particularly expensive medicines that we are also funding and whose scope has grown in the last few years by 250% in the account of the quality and efficiency of the same. Therefore, this radiotherapy equipment will certainly improve the availability and quality of healthcare in this very specific segment of cancer patients.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45404	Next replica, distinguished representative Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45405	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, here I trust you with all these criteria you mentioned, that it was all transparent. I'm a little surprised that so many projects were because I really checked in, the Krapina-Zagorska obviously didn't get any calls at all, the health code also didn't, let's say our hospital checked in with five projects, but it didn't go through one, 28.5 million kuna and then it looks a little bit like these colleagues eating from the neighbouring county 530, and we got some type of promotion of the type of intervention cardiology where we really did regional eating, we didn't get anything. So as far as that goes, as far as I'm concerned, I think that little should have been arranged more evenly. I'd just like to point out the problem that I mentioned in the debate, the palitative concern. Here's a little bit of the same thing to turn on and a little bit of this one to work on palitative care and also the issue of hospital accreditation or centres of excellence because many hospitals haven't actually started at all yet. on the way to accreditation. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45406	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45407	I thank you, Madam Assembly MPs, you know that I have supported the development of intervention cardiology in your region, even though we have discussed special funding which I think is the right way. However, you also know that we insist that, in terms of functional integration of certain activities, they must be combined between hospitals that are mostly as close to each other as barbaric and perennial. Our criteria were not that I must admit too regionally to worry about the distribution of these projects, but our sole goal was the possibility of realisation, which means the stage of project preparation. However, I am personally available to you, given that this morning it is said that the planning for the multiannual financial framework is ahead of us, that we also have 3.6 billion kuna available for different loans for all quality and sustainable projects that are in line with the proposed reform measures I am at your disposal. And yes, there's nothing more I can tell you about group practice, even though I wanted to make a point.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45408	The next replica is the distinguished representative of Rada Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45409	Dear Mr. Minister, recovery and resistance certainly won't be unless we take care of mental health as well. In fact, we have a summary here, so we can't talk about 25 projects, but what I saw from the summary and the projects that you mentioned were certainly commendable, such as concern about cancer or cancer patients, but the World Health Organization itself said that by 2030, therefore we have these non-infectious chronic diseases that mental health will be at the first place precisely chronic diseases. And what I'm interested in is, and this fifth component has started as well as the labour market, and as it's all really about recovery, what kind of resistance we're going to have, especially postcovid, all start with the pandemic, of course. what's going to happen and what you're planning on doing about mental health because it worries that in the headquarters itself [[Intruder: Time.]] We don't have a person, for example. A psychiatrist or a mental health expert. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45410	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45411	I thank you, Madam Parliamentarian, for that matter. You're right. This pandemic has also highlighted the issue of mental health. Although we don't have anyone at headquarters in the Health Ministry expert group right now we have representatives of both psychiatric and psychological professions that are our consummates on certain elements. However, as we did not have a national strategy and a strategic framework to fight cancer, so in some ways we recently adopted it in the Croatian Parliament, I can also tell you that the national development strategy is mental health in the Republic of Croatia in the final phase of our production and that we will believe in the soon to witness the acceptance of the same in this home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45412	The last replica, the esteemed representative of Ante Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45413	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers in the National Recovery and Resistance Plan through this component of health care has just been placed on the prevention and early detection and early detection of the disease, but here at this time of the pandemic we still need to think a little bit about the future itself, but also about the postcovid period that will be ahead of us and I believe that it will further and burden and exhaust our health system, so I am interested in how you and the Ministry plan itself are actually being prepared for the post-covid period, whether we are still providing certain resources and resources that we will need after this pandemic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45414	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45415	Dear Mr. Parliamentary Representative, of course we're thinking about a postcovid situation, but not just that. We are obliged and responsible and in the course of the epidemic itself to combat financial problems in the health system, with organisational and believe and hope that we do so well. It is also necessary to base certain reforms, not only in organisational but also in financial and humane terms, in order to provide equal quality and access to health care in the post-covid situation. That is why a specific reform plan has also been developed that we will present very quickly, I believe and the general public, which would establish a quality and adequate health system and in the future in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45416	Thank you, Minister. The next individual debate is the distinguished representative Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45417	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected ministers. There's already a lot to be said about this NPOO. I would just point out that all those who wanted to prepare themselves in quality and discuss this document were likely or should, and perhaps not, read the EU Regulation of February 2021, 241 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the establishment of the Mechanism for Recovery and Resistance. In fact, this document is the basis which obliges us as a member of the EU to respect what they agreed through the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU through the proposal of the European Commission, through the agreements of the Economic Social Committee and also certain acts they have in national parliaments. So this NPOO and the mechanism is really much more than €6.3 billion, and of that, it is 12% of GDP, which is actually the largest amount that we are withdrawing as an EU Member State. If we look at the European average, it's only 3.7%. And what's very significant is that this very national plan contains 26.2 billion kuna for the economy, which is even 54% alllocation,... Administration and the judiciary 10% and 4.76, respectively, education science and research 7.5 billion or 15%, labour market and social protection 2 billion or 4%, health 2.56 billion or 5% and reconstruction of buildings 5, nearly 6 billion kuna. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] When we know how much the economy of our 8.4% of GDP has fallen, then it is certain that these grants that the government will know how to use and with this plan, in fact, as it proposes, will certainly channel through all these criteria and guidelines through the regulations and will certainly be well channelled into those measures and those programmes and projects that are of great importance to recover and strengthen for the future period. I'm actually surprised that then they didn't see that even 37% of the funds go for the green transition, and 20% for the digital transition. It is also amazing that all the time here many colleagues want to say that the government does not know or do anything, and when we look at what happened in this period, how much the funds have withdrawn from the EU, from those symbolic 6% that were recovered from the former SDP government up to 9% and 3%, the 3% points that were withdrawn at the time of Oreshkovic's government, up to now 115% of the funds contracted and paid 50%, and there were only 1% by 2015, then we can say that this government with this programme and these measures knows exactly what to do. And also when we hear colleagues say that nothing was done in agriculture like that, then I don't know where they went to three billion support just last year for that same agriculture? It's something that's actually very strange that nothing really is, but there's 3 billion gone, and we don't know where.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45418	We have a replica of the distinguished representative Dalia Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45419	Thank you. Dear MPs, when you say the government would know something, the government didn't know how to start or draw up this plan, she could only prescribe some of the measures that were listed in earlier strategic documents that had never been implemented. But you're right, I agree that the government will know how to spend this money if the government makes HDZ, and HDZ spends very well public resources in its private pockets. I'll give you one specific or slightly more specific example. You mentioned agriculture and large amounts invested in agriculture without knowing what they were spent on. Well, yeah, that's the main problem. Billions have been broken into agricultural production on parcels where nothing has ever grown. That's how Croatia likes HDZ Mrs. It's a feather.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45420	Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45421	No, HDZ loves Croatia in order to raise the level and quality of life, HDZ is the one who saved and shipbuilding, HDZ is the one who saved Agrokor, so all of this has been achieved by the past government, this government in the past term, and also this government has been found by earthquakes and pandemics and we are successfully solving and solving these problems together, so HDZ is the one that solves problems and creates better conditions for life and work, as it has done before.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45422	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a distinguished representative of Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45423	Thank you, Chairman. He's been injured. In 238, in your replica, you have deeply offended me because you insult common sense. Among other things, you said the government saved Agrokor, no government saved Agrokor, the government kidnapped Agrokor regardless of the financial problems Agrokor was in. In a situation that is a deep undermining of the rule of law and of all the institutions of a modern democratic rule of law. It can't be called saving, but by kidnapping, corruption, robbery it does.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45424	So it wasn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure, it was your replica and your insult and you get a warning for it. The next violation of the Rules of Procedure is the distinguished representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45425	... A colleague of Oreshkovic has been injured by an article. 238, he disrespects other MPs. [[Specially enabled.]] I find it strange for me that a lawyer can say what she has now said about status and problem solving at Agrokor company. counterpart Oreskovic did not solve anything, the government proposed law in parliament, the parliament passed law, and the status of Agrokor was resolved by his creditors and the Trade Court That's what you should know, and that's how you perform in the Parliament. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45426	Time. And with you, it was a replica, you have a warning. Replica, the esteemed representative of Ante Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45427	Thank you, dear vice president of HS. My colleagues Perić I had a replica of something related to the European Green Plan and all the opportunities that we will have through these eu funds and opportunities for both reform and development, and for changes in the way of business in the Republic, but here I allow you not to answer me but because you cannot respond to the injury of your colleague Oreshković, here I am giving you the opportunity to take this minute, you do not need to answer me, but you can answer me, all the successes that the Government has made and all the ambiguities and lies that colleague Oreskovic is saying you can freely answer her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45428	You can't give the right to respond to others in a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45429	The procedure isn't exactly like that, but here I can Achieving that through a green plan, the goal is to ensure that the more quality production in agriculture is ensured, in addition to covering renewable energy sources, then in the economy we have in one of the guidelines and the possibility of investment in water supply, in water treatment, so all this is the goal of developing certain systems, to enable better production, but also to protect the environment that will create the preconditions that we have as much quality life as our citizens and those who come to Croatia. [[Sandader: Here you go.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45430	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Branko Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45431	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. As it comes from Vodice from Sibenik-Knin County, I paid special attention to this National Recovery and Resistance Plan of 2021-2026. I am pleased that as much as 2.2 billion kuna is reserved for projects to develop sustainable, innovative and sustainable tourism. However, one of the basic preconditions is certainly clear seas for us, and therefore the improvement of the water economy and the 6.5 billion kuna foreseen for these projects, among other things for the construction of a wastewater treatment system, I would say that I am looking forward to even more. In the area of Sibenik-Knin County, Vodice has almost prepared a project and is eager to build a system of agglomeration Vodice-Srima-Tribunj, it is also prepared by Rogoznica, Pirovac-Tisno- Lakes, Betina-Murter and these are projects that are extremely important and expensive projects. We do not expect all of this to be financed from these funds, but there are high expectations from the next multi-annual financial envelope that envisions investments from 2021 to 2027, and right now it is negotiating and discussing how and which projects will be financed. We also see in these documents that when it comes to systems like this and these projects, they are a major problem for economic development, especially tourism, in places where seasonality is expressed. In fact, the City of Vodice, which has about 8,000 inhabitants in the summer months, may also record visitors for about 15, 20 days and up to 40,50,000, and it is really difficult to build a complete municipal infrastructure in order for it to function in those summer months of these few weeks, and that it can be maintained throughout the year and of course there is no excessive financial burden on our citizens. The quality of sea quality prevails in Sibenik-Knin County, however, the trend in the amount of harmful substances released into the water suggests a dramatic increase, especially from the tourism sector and from catering accommodation facilities. Even the release of harmful substances into the water is released into the sea which is our main economic resource. The associated population varies from municipality and city to public disposal system, and therefore we are very high expectations in the coming period of how much funds will be allocated to finance these systems. When we talk about tourism, we see that this programme also says that marked seasonality is related to the most common motive for the arrival of tourists sun and sea. We must strive for this season to be as wide as possible, the bigger, more competitive and what would mean for us to grow income. We're proud to say that the figures are larger every year, we have more arrivals, we have more nights. However, it is certain that our catering and tourist workers are particularly interested in how much their income is and with constant, I do not know the cost or even the reduction of expenditure to make them especially happy. The recovery of tourism means not only the recovery of this activity, but also a number of other activities such as transport, trade, construction, agriculture, cultural, sports activities and, of course, increasing employment, new jobs are being created, which means a lot of demographic revitalisation. It is also found that we have excessive tourism in the most developed tourist destinations, that's what I was saying is it's extremely difficult to build infrastructure for those few weeks when we have up to three, four times as much as we have in winter months. And that is why exactly the allocation of these grants in tourism that will apply to both the private and public sectors we are looking forward to. I was still planning on telling a few cartoons about the criticisms the opposition says privates won't be able to run. In Germany, private people can't run at all On these means, unlike us, where they'll be able to do 12%. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45432	The first replica of the distinguished representative Ante Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45433	Thank you, Vice President. At the beginning of your presentation, you mentioned and touched just the investments related to environmental protection, the result of water protection and through your example of Sibenik-Knin County and the town of Vodice and through this plan, and through certain laws that we have passed in the last months in the Croatian Parliament, we have imposed exactly high goals regarding environmental protection and the use of renewable energy sources. And all that we have committed to through the European Green Plan, I am interested in your opinion and through the very green public procurement that I think is an opportunity for our municipalities and cities but in general for the Republic of Croatia but also for these funds that are ahead of us. However, this is also an opportunity for our municipalities and cities and to implement certain reforms and development, but also to turn towards this sustainable and tourism but also sustainable and renewable energy sources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45434	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45435	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague Bacic. It is this component of the one that refers to the economy for it that is projected over 54% of the resources, and most of all within that component for improving the water economy and waste management. I heard a few days ago from some of our colleagues who, with a smile, say that everything is green, that everything is sustainable for us. However, we do seek and allocate significant resources especially when it comes to the Environmental Protection Fund. We know how many projects and how many competitions we have in different segments. We also have here when we talked about tourism, it is envisaged for the development of sustainable, innovative and resistant tourism. We have the promotion, use of natural resources and strengthening food supply chains, the development of a competitive energy sustainable and efficient transport system, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45436	The next replica is the esteemed representative Danica Baricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45437	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues, I welcome your debate. You have just pointed out that grants will improve public tourist infrastructure that is important for the precondition, for development and special forms of tourism. We also expect this national recovery plan and resistance to transform tourism, to experience sustainable tourism. If you think our tourist offer will have added value then, that will increase and consumption, will increase consumption per guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45438	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45439	Thank you very much, dear colleague Baricevic. So all of us who come from the island, we from the coast, Dalmatia where almost every man lives I happily say from tourism and for tourism we know what it means to us. With this recovery plan and these means, it is also planned to provide and develop different forms of selective tourism from sports, cultural, religious and similar to that of planning just to increase income, not only to say that we have more arrivals, more overnight stays than it is important for us to increase these revenues as well. The revenues can be increased if we offer a bigger and better offer to our guests, then of course we can also increase the price. All of this leads to each other from what I used to say to build municipal infrastructure to those nicer investments precisely in different forms of selective tourism.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45440	Thank you. Next individual debate, distinguished representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45441	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. The document we are discussing today stems from the European Recovery and Resistance Mechanism document, which is a document adopted by the European Council, part of Europe's comprehensive next generation document. We seem to forget when we are discussing this document that it was actually created as a result of the European Commission's proposal to the European Council at a time when Europe and the whole world were affected by the pandemic and we forget that Croatia as the chairman of the European Council was also one of the initiators and that our role in the adoption of this whole project and the recovery and resilience mechanism programme was extremely high. At that time, at the end of May of last year, while we were still chairing the EU, another more important document was being prepared, which is the VFO with which two documents, Croatia is in the next 7 years, and if we add those 3 years which can be used by VFO, Croatia has been secured 24.5 billion or 184 million euros, or 184 billion kuna. Now, the transfer in the way the opposition does, that's why we are GDP among the more underdeveloped EU Member States are not standing, but I can do it later if I succeed, we've already talked about it today, so maybe there's no need anymore. When I read this summary of this UFO a few days ago, I remembered that last year we were at the same time bringing to the Assembly a proposal from the Government for measures that we had during an epidemic that had already been declared in Croatia for a month, we brought a series of programmes of measures that we sought to help on the one hand the Croatian health system but on the other hand help and the Croatian economy. And then we adopted measures that are still being implemented, including the measures that went towards the rescue of the Croatian economy, and the preservation of jobs and the liquidity of entrepreneurs and the preservation of their business activities. There is Minister Aladrovic, perhaps later on, he will say something more about it, but with those nearly 11 billion kunas, which are based on the measures we brought in in April, we have also preserved jobs, we have preserved the liquidity of entrepreneurs and preserved their business activities. This approach by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, then a year ago, a year before we are discussing this document now, is my best reason to convince me that this plan, the NPO, will fully fulfil its purpose, not only because we have experience in these 64 measures of a year ago, but that the 3 main objectives discussed by this European recovery and resilience mechanism, we have fullyincorporated this national plan, and this is the first thing, that it is a green transition of the Croatian economy that you can do if you read a little more carefully all of the goals set out there, recognise in almost every other, third objective. Another very important thing, it is a digital transition in the public administration, and in health care, there is the minister, and in education, in the reform of the judiciary, in the reform of public administration, in the management of state property, so each of them, almost every measure that goes towards reforms, relys on the new digital age that is read in this document, hence, and this is exactly one of those objectives that national governments must recognise, to put into their national plan to get the green light later on the European Commission and the third goal that we have already been talking about through a series of discussions, the third objective is to protect the environment through better and better quality management, so through reforms in the water economic system, we have already passed certain laws, so we rely on these laws, etc., etc. So from the experience we have from earlier measures, and from this NPO which is in line with this European document, I am convinced of the success of this project and this plan. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45442	Replications Dear representative of Ljubica Maksimchuk. [[Intruder Bačić: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45443	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear counterpart Bačić, there are 6.3 billion euros in grants available to Croatia, an ambitious investment plan as well as reforms. I will look back on one sector which, with tourism, is certainly the most affected by this COVID crisis, which is a sector that is both a prerequisite for economic growth and investment, which is a transport sector. Our quality of life depends on our transport connection, the conditions of survival in rural areas as well. 5.5 billion kuna goes through the NPO into the transport sector. Do you agree that only by investing and modernising in transport infrastructure can we not even have a real economic recovery?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45444	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45445	Thank you, colleague Maximchuk. Yes, you are right, the component or sub-components better say the transport-related economy is extremely represented and it is read through realization or is planned better said, the realization of several objectives. You see that this is about big investment in the rail system, in rail infrastructure, we're saying what I believe you're particularly interested in as a Brodjanka, it's raising the quality of infrastructure on internal navigation, it's particularly prominent if you could see it. It is also now that perhaps a little more of us who are from the sea are interested, and this is investing in line-board maritime transport, raising the eco-fleet, getting new ships, editing ports in the system of ports open for public transport, so all that's important is to do that green transition if you want and in traffic, it's internal navigation, it's maritime traffic and it's a railway. And there is a lot of reading through this way and through this plan in all these objectives that are proposed.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45446	Time. Next replica, distinguished representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45447	Thank you very much. Comrade Bačić, we have been talking all day about this document and we have all agreed here and our colleagues from the opposition that this document is the future and one of the most important. I don't know if you noticed what I noticed, which is that the three presidents of the largest clubs in the Parliament were in session, Mr. Peja Grbin zero minutes, zero seconds of speech, Mr. Bozo Petrov also, zero minutes, zero seconds of speech, Mr. Škoro, it's probably a joke to him but zero minutes and zero seconds. We're talking about the future. The question arises whether they are even interested in this, the time of the future when I speak of them as those who should say something about this document, no matter what it is. It's simple, not a word. They're probably just as interested in snow as they were last week. Which is why this relationship that I say all of us need to be interested in, which is billions of kuna, of the most important people who are in opposition, zero, zero.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45448	Answer. And I'm sorry, I'm in breach of the Rules of Procedure. Dear Representative Mirela Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45449	Thank you very much. The Rules of Procedure, Art. 238. Comrade Boric, you have injured the Rules of Procedure with rude insult and counting who has sat here and who has not sat. For your information here is the Club of Representatives of the SDP, equivalent members such as the president of that same SDP club, Mr. Peja Grbin, who is now absent due to a death in the family, may be a shame to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45450	Well, it wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, it was your replica, so you get a warning. Next replica honours representative Danica Baričević [[No, the reply to the replica.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45451	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45452	Excuse me, reply to the replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45453	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45454	No, first answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45455	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45456	I thank my colleague, Boric, for this replica. I agree with you, therefore, that this is an extremely important document. According to the financial scale of a third of the RH budget, 40 billion is about 1/3 of the RH budget, which is practically donated to us, practically donated. Therefore, this recovery plan cannot address all the challenges in Croatian society, but the vast majority of the projects contained in this plan can strengthen the Croatian economy so that it can deal with the challenges of the epidemic. In that sense, I agree with you that this document would have something to say and an opposition other than what they say is short, that it's only a summary, a draft of a summary. He is much more than that and we expected that today the opposition will indeed try to raise the value and quality of this document with its proposals.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45457	Here's a distinguished representative of Danica Baričević's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45458	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow Members, under very demanding circumstances of the deterioration of the overall economic situation in Europe, Croatia can be satisfied with the resources it will have in this 7-year period. In your debate, you have just pointed out three very important goals, and the fact is that all the components contained in this NPOO education, public administration, justice, state property, labour market, social protection, rebuilding buildings, science, economy and health care, will contribute to the necessary reforms and what is most important to GDP growth.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45459	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45460	Thank you, colleagues Baričević. Yes, all of these components that we listed here and which the government, the government proposed, I would specifically single out that sub-component relating to the rebuilding of the buildings because this is the answer to the two major earthquakes that hit Zagreb and Banovina last year. And I remember when we passed the Law on the Reconstruction of the City of Zagreb that at the time I had no idea at all that we would discuss this, I said that it would be good if the Government of the Republic of Croatia found a way to implement the model of all those buildings that would be covered by the construction of the reconstruction, which means the establishment of the basic elements of the building and its loadability, to find a model to enter into the energy and energy restoration of those buildings, or better said in the restoration of the facades. Here, this model, this NPOO is just going in this direction, which is that all of these buildings, even in the City of Zagreb, will also allow the tenants who enter the construction reconstruction to rebuild this energy building and thus edit these facades. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45461	The next debate is on behalf of the promoter, distinguished Minister Josip Aladrovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45462	Honorable Vice President HS, respected MPs, respected MPs. So here's the whole day's debate about NPOO. One part of you has also expressed his opinions and his perspective on the labour market itself and social protection as one of the NPOO sub-components, which as its own views on these topics. As regards this sub-component regarding what we have stated in the plan, I must therefore start with this second part of social policy or social protection, and note that this document has its full complementarity with the multiannual financial framework in the next period, and that we have tied it from the perspective and from these sub-components and other parts to the European Social Fund and also to other EU funds. What we can see is one complementarity and interdependence between reforms and investments, and in this direction the whole, whole document is formed as such. The most powerful part and the most important part that is related to social protection is definitely directed towards capacity building and equipment for older people's centres towards deinstitutionalisation and strength and the introduction of social mentorship. It is actually one link between work and social policies and we believe that in this context we will also implement necessary reforms, but also necessary changes in the very perspective of social policy and in the very perspective of working in the Republic of Croatia. What I would like to mention, and the very title of the sub-component tells us, there are certain reforms that will include the pension system in the Republic of Croatia, not so much through investments, but through the reform capacity that will certainly make our entire economy and society more resilient in the future. The biggest perspective on the other hand is the strongest perspective in the whole plan. We can only see that in the first component is over 50% more accurate about 54% is directed towards the economy. The part that is also oriented towards the economy, but indirectly, this is the part that is related to work, to active employment policy measures, to the voucher system. So we want to continue to strongly encourage active employment policy measures, we want to transfer them through this national plan to green and digital, many times mentioned today, but it is not burning again and what the whole document must have exactly those components of green and digital, and through the labour market we have just directed in that direction. What we want to achieve is a higher employment rate in the past few years, so in the term of the government of Andrej Plenkovic, and now other governments can see a strong boost, strong messages that we can go in this direction, an increased number of employees, good trends in the labour market. And when we put this in context and the National Recovery Plan and the resistance to transfer to green and digital, when we put it in context of the next multiannual financial framework, primarily through the ISF and through the leveraged priority axes that are focused on employment, we are confident that with this plan, but also with other financial instruments and financial frameworks, we will achieve all of the assumptions that we have drawn out, or all of the goals that we have outlined, through the government programme, which through the HDZ programme, so that, in that one medium time, we can expect that right through this complementarity of more documents, through the promotion of active employment policy measures, through strong investment in skills acquisition, in reskilling and upskilling can expect a strong impact on both the economy and social policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45463	Ministers, you have several, first pardons of the rules of procedure, distinguished representative Romana Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45464	Thank you, Vice President. Well, here's what I'm gonna do. I'm gonna risk a heads-up 'cause I can't stay away from the minister. This way, according to the article. 17. The national pedagogical standard, kindergartens, primary school for the implementation of the programme provides space and equipment for the implementation of the programme. Preschool educators implement the programme exclusively with their materials, without plans and programmes of the educational institution already with their own knowledge and money. Children use the crayons from the educational group and parents themselves contribute to bringing Notebook and paper, I do it myself. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] And now you tell me if it's your system. quality and do you feel that this should not be changed and improved? [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45465	Since you said so yourself, here's a warning to you because this was a pure replica. Replica, distinguished representative Maria Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45466	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, Your Honor. The planned reforms will also implement the digitisation and information of labour market management systems in such a way as to carry out comprehensive analysis and systematic reengineering of existing processes in order to increase the quality of HZZ services, and according to end-users, unemployed persons, employees and employers. In the area of pension system management, the modernisation of the information system and basic business processes is also planned to increase the level of quality service for HZMO users and efficiency, with the digitisation of archives. I'm interested in what projects will affect this, and I'm also interested in how you intend to increase the overall employment rate by 2024. what is also one of the objectives of the current rate? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45467	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45468	Dear MPs, I thank you for asking. So these three projects that you mentioned are part of digitisation and are not part of this component, but as a resolute ministry, as a sectoral body that will deal with this part of it, I must mention that these are three projects that will definitely change the whole perception of work and perception of relationships with users, but also internal business processes and in HZZ and HZMO. On the other hand, we meet those criteria digitally in the National Recovery and Resistance Plan itself. Regarding the second part of your question, therefore very consciously investing in the economy in the segment of the economy, but also in the segment of work, all these investments will have a positive effect, a positive impact on the labour market itself. We could see that over the past four years we've raised the number of insurance companies by 110, I'm sure we'll continue with that trend. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45469	The next replica is the esteemed representative Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45470	Thank you very much. Dear Minister. And in this document, it says, and you mentioned something that we all agree that deinstitutionalization is necessary, but we do know that we have a lot of our fellow citizens of old age who need long-term care, a long-term care that cannot live outside the institutional one, especially I can't live in their homes, so the accommodation capacity is missing. How are you going to do this, whether existing homes will be restored, whether they will build new ones, whether it will be at the state level or have to be included in the county? It also mentions the employment of new experts to work in the area of deinstitutionalisation, also the issue of hospice, palitative care, therefore links and with the Ministry of Health. So, what is the way in which all of this you're going to put it and what kind of means are you going to do it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45471	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45472	I thank you for asking. As regards the deinstitutionalisation process itself or the deinstitutionalisation process, it is one process that we cannot avoid regardless of whether we are discussing the National Recovery and Resistance Plan or any other documents relating to social care. What may be the biggest investment, or certainly the biggest economic impact or financial impact through this sub-component, is the part that relates to building and equipping centres for older people, so this is one concept by which one part of the elderly will be deinstitutionalized and given a higher standard and higher quality of life through it, but of course, we will also empower professional workers, or we will empower experts in procedures and in the area of deinstitutionalisation and I must mention once more, what we have predicted through the NPO will be only one part of that strength, the rest will be financed and directed to the VFO, to... Social inclusions and of course other resources and state budget [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Excuse me, thank you. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45473	Next replica, distinguished representative Ljubica Lukačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45474	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, here I would say that this plan envisions a major reform of the social care system. And we've waited a long time and thank you for that, so from the continuation of deinstitutionalization, but I'd say a little faster steps than it's ever been, to hiring new people, etc., not to count. I wonder if any of these will already be visible in the new Social Care Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45475	The Honorable Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45476	Thank you, Your Honor, I thank you for asking. Yes, this document also contains one part of the reform in the social care system itself, that does not mean that only the reforms that we have highlighted here will be fulfilled, we have already begun with legal changes leading to the improvement of the status of all those persons covered, all users of the social care system and this will be just one additional source of funds and additional source and reforms and investments in the social care system itself. The Social Care Act, which is now in the final stage of production within the working group, is expected to be the first step and of course it will relate to everything that will follow through the NPO to other regulatory or legislative changes and to everything we will do in the system of social care itself and there will certainly be more words about it in the coming weeks and months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45477	Next replica, distinguished representative Martina Vlasic Iljkic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45478	Thank you. Dear Ministers, you said that you participated in the creation of the document and that you were in the context of the need, meaning in the context of how the EU imposes and determines certain directives. I believe that you have not well defined priorities and needs since social mentoring is now the most important thing for you, and in the context of this, in the context of social care reform. I really don't understand, social mentoring in the context of improving the social care system because it's through the labour market or something, since it refers to long-term unemployed and other sensitive groups, who should do it? Do social workers in the CZSS perform social mentoring or in what way? Why is this even in the context of improving the social care system? And please tell me, what about Family Law? The prime minister didn't answer me today, does the Family Law go into change, does it bring new ones, and what's left of it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45479	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45480	Your Honor, I thank you for asking. The service of social mentorship as such, deeply integrates and works, as well as the social care system, so we talk about long-term unemployed persons, we talk about those on the labour market and they may be located in the social care system, or they may be users of the system and may be working, they are able to work and can become an integral part of the labour market. We are aware that such individuals, that such a set of populations exist, and what we think of as the best perspective is that we just activate them. This is one responsible policy, not a responsible policy to prevent or reduce expenditure in the social care system itself, but to activate those people in the labour market through a multi-annual process, which is certainly best for them. And about your second question, it's not part of the NPO. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45481	Next replica, the esteemed representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45482	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Ministers, COVID support for job conservation are modelling how the government responsible in times of crisis should be exposed in a way that preserves business activity, liquidity and jobs, and I think that this is one of the government's best decisions in these times of crisis, or an epidemic of COVID 19. What I would like to rephrase to you is from this programme, so for the labour market and social protection, 4% and about 2 billion respectively, which would say that it is not much of what is important, I would ask you, and how and in what way will we continue with the policy that you have started when it comes to social policy in Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45483	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45484	I thank you for asking. So these 2 billion kn represent a little less than 300 million euros and that is one part of what we will invest in not only preserving jobs, or not preserving jobs, but creating better, better and more sustainable jobs in the next period. I have to refer to COVID support, we found ourselves in a pandemic time in which we had to react quickly, quality, up-to-date, and we had to hand in support to both employers and workers. That's what we're seeing now from the data, official HZZ data, that's what we did, 17 000 more employees we have this year, that's 31. 3rd of this year than it was 31. Last year's 3rd and we kept the labour market safe. Now is the time to further improve this labour market and through VFO between 500 and 600 million euros will be provided for the priority axis itself, and you mentioned the social part of the system Social care through social inclusion in the multiannual financial framework will also further improve the system. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45485	Thank you, Minister. You're done. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. You may leave the Ministers. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, the distinguished representative Martina Vlasic Iljkić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45486	Thank you. I believe that Article 238 is injured, you are really insulting my common sense because you cannot say that the Family Law is not part of this document future family legal protection and the improvement of family legal protection is really part of the whole of this document and indeed an interest and a certain transformation as well as the Social Care Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45487	You're not being.../incomprehensible... this was a pure replica. You're getting a warning. Next individual debate, distinguished representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45488	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, this information on a summary of the National Recovery and Resistance Plan 2021-2026, I think that regardless of the debate that wanted to bring the document down to a third-rate i.e. The third level of some good document was my fault because today we are discussing here almost 10 hours about this document, and sometimes we also know in one article of the law to discuss for a few hours, so the number of pages I don't think is something that should be the basis for an attempt to debate the document in the wrong way. And regardless of all our differences and disagreements, I said and in my replicas it's about a document that determines our future for the next five years, and we all agreed that that's the case. And that there should be through the proposals, through some discussions, we may address these shortcomings if they exist from those who notice them because I think that to the number of goals, we can really answer everyone in our own way, but we can't argue that someone wants to help us like we can't humiliate ourselves in our discussions and say that we got the most money because we're weak or the worst. Because if we got 10 billion, then 26 other members or 27 got the rest of 60, 600 and 40 or 600 and 50 million of this billion. So there's something wrong with that. So we have to say what it is because if someone really wants to give us 47 billion kuna, of course we'll try to use it for the next five years. Why would they say that we don't need it or you don't know how to schedule it well when we know that it needs to help us with everything we still have at our disposal when we talk about the multiannual financial framework but also our national resources that we have in our own budgets. And I think that in this direction to debate obviously was missed by me because we really need to create a specific plan because it's the basis for use and there shouldn't be too much dilemma whether we need it or not. Now is the best way if we said it was based on already adopted documents, on a government programme or I don't know about the national reform programme or on a national development strategy to link it together and to further discuss it I think we have all the grounds to talk about it in a way that it still contributes to us for the next 5 years, not to us. For me, the most important part of this whole document is the part of the traffic itself. This is part of the 1 4 objectives of the competitive energy sustainable and efficient transport system. The moment in the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure's portfolio weighs 5 billion and 512 million kuna. Those aren't small funds. With all that will be available through other means. So one upgrade of 5 billion to achieve some goals. If we want to solve I don't know the electronic billing system on our highways, I think so. That's 500 million kuna. If someone can give it to us that it's irreversible why don't we solve it and solve it. Do we not want to know the reconstruction of the existing construction of the second track on Long Village – Novska i.e. Subdivision of Kutina – Novska billion and 60 million kuna of grants that can be used to solve or not know the modernisation of shares from Ostari, Knin to Split 300 million kuna or part that passes through Zagreb itself means almost 220 million kuna from Kustosija to the Main Station. It's good projects. And if we can't cover them from national funds, from a multi-annual financial framework why don't you come from this instrument that's at our disposal. Of course, the most important part is the purchase of passenger ships, there we have 307 million kuna, of course not only Jadrolini all shipmen will have the right to try to get their share or internal navigation and its fleet, 40 million kuna. We certainly have a number of projects that concern, for example, research and development of vehicle production, new mobility, over a billion and 400 million kuna. If we want to develop that segment, we see some stories these days, I think so. Why not use it to help both yourself and the economies in the way that we are available. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45489	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Karolina Vidovic Kristo.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45490	Ladies and gentlemen, 19 states that were covered by the famous marshal's plan, as we know, were not all equal stories of success. Greece has been successful or has not been as successful as France as Yugoslavia has not been as successful as Germany. In order for most of the ruling powers in Croatia to be understandable, I will paraphrasise communist dictator Stalin who had a big red five-point head that many media in Croatia are celebrating today. It doesn't matter how the vote is voted, it matters who's counting the votes. Following that statement, we can conclude in connection with this plan that it is not crucial how much money we will get but who will spend it, and who will eventually get it. We in Croatia have seen different phenomena. Let us remember how the price of kilometers of highways per year grew by 100 percent, so we have roads like the famous access road in Zadar that cost so much that the money could be built two roads. The children of the communists who rule Croatia do not have the measures in their grampility, so it should be said that for the recovery from Europe we can get not 49 billion kuna but 149 billion but the ordinary Croatian man will not feel it on his skin because there is no control in Croatia of the spending of Croatian citizens' money. This control of the ruling structure by blocking the judiciary prevents proven corruption from being able to perform uninterruptedly. Thus, the 99 billion will be spent by HDZ, SDP, SDSS and other known officials, and the way that the structure works is known. It's called breaking the law, getting rich at the expense of taxpayers and social injustice. Namely, the tenders through which the funding from the National Plan will be spent will be well-known to the competitions that citizens call image contests. Because in Croatia no one believes in the Institute of Public Competition anymore. The vast majority of Croatian citizens with a mockery look at the fairness of the competition whether it's a job, whether it's a job assignment or something. Public tenders have completely lost credibility in Croatia. The other day I received mail from Osijek with evidence documenting the results of a major competition. And imagine a business worth 150 million kuna only reported one company, and this company offered a price higher by 40% than the estimated value. It's just saying that other bidders who have references and conditions for doing this job didn't dare contact, because they were signaled if you answer, you won't get another job. It's quite clear. A law that doesn't apply isn't worth the paper it's printed on. There is no partial application of the law. The laws are either implemented or not, there's no third. For reasons that laws do not implement the safety of entrepreneurs has been violated, investors bypass Croatia, and can successfully operate exclusively similar to those under the auspices of the authorities. Here are the exceptions of those companies that are oriented to the external markets, and the state has no expectations other than to pay taxes. How will money from the National Recovery and Resistance Fund be spent? In view of the basic things that every man in Croatia can see with the slightest dioptria, which is an intolerable proportion of the corruption of the abuses that happen in Croatia, this money will be spent to suit a small number of powerful people and not to develop Croatian and Croatian citizens. Take this Borg and the person Martina Daliæ proven and irrefutable corruption because the law was written to make someone rich. A person who exclusively engaged in state affairs where there was nowhere to prove her knowledge, and when she worked in a private bank, she was fired after two years. And such a compromised person is appointed by the government as Director of Podravka. The money will be spent by the compromised Ćorići, Marići and will be monitored by courts who sing tea with Kerum in lockdown and with Janaf Kovacevic count the money. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday I spoke to a sociology doctor, a Croatian returnee from Germany, his husband mastered in Graz, and they have four children. In today's Croatia, there are no jobs for them, while from Germany and Austria they are making offers. Yes, in today's Croatia, capable and brave have no place, but there are deserters from the Homeland War who are forever in office because Moms and Dads put them there. We don't have an alternative. We in Croatia must fight for the rule of law and the state of equal opportunities for all. And then Croatia will be the European tiger, not some subdued cat like it is today. If you have replicas here I am, but as I see most of you here in the assembly agree with everything spoken.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45491	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Romana Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45492	Thank you, Vice President. In today's debate, we have pointed out several times that the document presented to us is incomplete and illogical and contains nothing fatal for recovery and resilience, and this in the segment of our economy's recovery because it will not distribute enough funds to small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, which will adversely affect our entire economy. If we look at the recovery measures of other world economies, most of them have just given their aid packages to the economy, i.e. the most affected companies and citizens. Several times in the assembly, I spoke of them being the most affected in this corona crisis and few others standing on their feet while they stayed or failed, or it is only a matter of time if they are soon not helped to turn off the light in their businesses. The National Recovery Plan provides for the distribution of funds so that 54% of funds target the economy and 46% for public sector reform. But within 54% of support for the economy are wastewater projects, waste management, road construction and transport infrastructure, i.e. investment in public companies that have so far shown low efficiency. And we can therefore conclude that the National Plan is not aimed at aid and rapid recovery, as well as at encouraging the Croatian economy. With a plan like this, we can't expect a strong economic recovery. According to what is shown in the document, it can be concluded that most of the funds will be targeted at projects that were to be co-financed by the WFO funding from 2014 to 2020 but as our Croatian story goes, our Croatian reality due to problems with land and the problem of public procurement, most of these projects did not move from a dead end. They're stuck making project documentation. The question arises whether the agreed projects will be implemented in the first place, given that they have to be completed by 2026 because they have failed in the previous seven years. From all above, it is clear that there is no economic vision. We now have the opportunity through means to strengthen the competitiveness of Croatian companies and help the economy. The government does not know or want to channel the funds where it is necessary to save our economy, it plans to distribute funds into the patching of budget gaps that have been stored for years.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45493	We have a replica, the esteemed representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45494	Thank you very much. My colleague, I think you said it right. So we have one big problem, and that's a lack of vision of the ruling. And not only the lack of vision and not only the lack of the way we will spend these funds, but one very large deficit, which is that we will focus most of the money on public investment, which is not a bad necessity, but most of the competitions in public investment will not be won by Croatian entrepreneurs, which is more so than most Croatian entrepreneurs who make up the spine of our economy are large entrepreneurs, not those who can compete in such competitions but are small and medium entrepreneurs. Small and medium-sized entrepreneurs will again be excluded from this cycle, will again be excluded from competition, effective competition in these competitions and eventually the added value will not remain in Croatia, it will remain somewhere else. Does this actually enable Croatia to develop further and leave the team with added value to the Croatian economy?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45495	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45496	Thank you, Agent Hajdukovic. So in the segment, the segment of the document relating to the economy is literally a water line, stripes and similar things, leaving the impression that the Brussels homework is misunderstood by the ruling ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45497	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45498	I thank the esteemed Vice President HS, respected ministers and esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Here I am also a little bit in the spirit of what we talked about today who loves what, so I will talk about social protection because I love it, and you know it myself, especially from the system, my colleague Martina climate-headed, it is not easy to love it because it is a broad, complicated and complex system, very sensitive, where different users and user groups have different problems that solve help, advice, financial benefits, services by employees and partners in the social care system. Of course, very often the focus of the public is when some problems occur and happen, I will not potential this last scary event now, but at that time very often is spoken in a negative context about a system that is actually noble, about a profession that is actually noble and helpful and that itself cannot be functional and accomplish its tasks that the state has given and has given if there is no partnership in this business of all other resources, or all of us. Of course, it is difficult to listen to that the system is abandoned and devastated, but we have institutions and institutions that we were proud of and I think we still have reason to be, homes for different age and user groups, centres for social care, centres for providing services in the community, and those partners that we like to mention, and they help us to provide outside of institutional services. Of course, what happened to the system was that there was not enough follow-up to the changes in society, terrible changes and difficulties in transition that left the most economic consequences that left the most to our family and all together with the unemployed, along with the poor, along with family legal problems, fell to a purely social care system or social care centres. Of course, it is not true that reforms have not been carried out, they have gone, perhaps not systematically, perhaps little and awkward, but these reforms are not completed, it is a long-term process, and there they would stress maybe the deinstitutionalisation has gone badly, has not completed decentralisation because, of course, the units of local and self-government are in no way capable, nor are they capable of taking on new commitments, as have many other problems. All of this I have noted safely in these components of this programme will be supported in some way and easier to achieve, in particular one digitisation or information in terms of collecting different data from different administrations, whether at national level or at local level, with a view to better transparency and better information related to social benefits, which is certainly one of the most important reform processes, and where it insists here is the European Commission. Of course, this should also take into account the increase in the basics of guaranteed minimum remuneration and employment often called for recently by new staff and new experts so that all these reform and programming objectives can be achieved. I would take the opportunity to stress that the centres of cry for help that these 150, as they say the powers that social care centres have, should be relieved at all costs, and if we experience this document as a document that is not completed, which may change and respect the recommendations from these discussions, it would be good to keep an eye on it because social workers and centres have become a service, but for writing any certificates and certificates that are simply I may be ugly to express myself, but other resolutions cleaning up their own jobs that they didn't exactly consider to be included in their portfolio pushed under social care centres, and in that sense, I think that this mentorship would be better to be under the employment office, but also many other jobs. I think it's up to the frames. Overloading with different non-essential small [[Intruder: Time.]] Jobs from other resistors is also one of the reasons that... [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45499	We have one replica. Dear representative Martina Vlasic Iljkić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45500	Dear MPs, I am pleased that we agree in this area of social mentorship that this really is not the place to improve the social care system, but it really belongs to the employment office and I agree with the minister that long-term unemployed people really need assistance in activation or in active preparation for the workplace, but it really does not work, it does not go to the welfare centre. What I would certainly like to explain to the Minister is that to improve the social care system, Table C4.3. Indeed, point 2 states that the lack of experts and unstandardised professional practices in the protection of children, young people and families is at risk and persons with disabilities. They're part of the family code. So part of this document is about the conduct of the Family Law, and in the financial effects here, it's not why I'm interested in what's going on with the Family Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45501	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45502	So I think that this, these protections come naturally from the Family Law or family legal protection, they are implemented and in the budget at the posts of the Ministry of Such Activities there is money. Normally, not all reform processes in this, in these components, can be expressed because this is only one part of what will be financed by this document for the needs of social care reform. Whether or not the Family Law should be amended, there has been a lot of debate about it during my term of office, but family legal protection can be implemented under this, under this existing law, and I don't know whether these changes are necessary enough to not work.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45503	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Mario Kapulica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45504	... esteemed colleagues and respected colleagues, this is another moment when all political parties in these local elections should be invited to run as many women as possible because according to those present in this Chamber at this late hour, they are very engaged and very committed to what they do. [[Specially enabled.]] Croatia has around EUR 24.5 billion in the next 10 years from European sources and funds, EUR 9 billion for the development of regional policies, nearly 5 billion for agriculture. It has a great position within the EU's seven-year budget period, and in this part there are 6.3 billion grants for the resistance and handling programme. This is due to negotiations with negotiated accounting formulas that are not such an accident. Last year, the Finns lost almost half a billion euros due to a change in the formula for the calculation of grants. These are the facts to which part of the opposition corresponds before and after all these funds will remain the same, and some go further and say recovery funds will devastate Croatia. Such statements, if part of the opposition should already be turned into official views and sent to the European Commission and perhaps she listens to them, deny us these 6.3 billion grants and thus save Croatia from the devastation. I'm sure the citizens of Croatia would approve. Now, what to say on the subject is that we only got all this funding because we're miserable, miserable, and worst at all. That our GDP is miserable, so the data on the share of these funds in GDP is actually a reflection of our misery and whatnot. That there are few of us, so that's why the data on how high the population's assets are. If these were our arguments in the negotiations on this plan we wouldn't have provided half of these funds because logic says if you need less, if you're moving into you and your economy isn't worth investing, you're the last person to be patient, wait your turn we have our priorities. So, I don't think at that level of argument we can insist on and that she doesn't belong here. We got a chance, we fought for her, let's discuss how best to use her. What motive, unlike the opposition that does not divide those motives, can we conclude from these discussions that we have entered into the design of this plan? With the motive that some call, which some call Brussels listeners, use their influence to recover Croatia from this crisis as soon as possible, that this recovery does not last as the last time behind the crisis when it took us to recover and return to a level from before the crisis for a decade and that will not happen because something happened in the meantime. And what happened? It happened that those who, according to the instructions they sent and the media messages called chatholics, chaired the EU Council and took advantage of this circumstance as well as their commitment to the European path and development of Croatia and all that they did in the past term for the stability of the Croatian economy, so that today we would come into a situation to discuss this plan that will no doubt help us to return to the growth trends we had before this crisis as soon as possible and within the shortest time. Some of us here may be on the line of claims that a 6.3 billion-euro grant would probably help the city of 4 million people, even if you were throwing them at random, but they cannot help Croatia out of 4 million people because there is only a state and para-state sector in which some opposition representatives can nevertheless achieve An envious career and 25 million kuna property. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45505	Individual discussion by the next distinguished representative Martina Vlasic Iljkic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45506	Thank you. As in other areas, this summary of the National Recovery and Resistance Plan for the period from 2021-2026. in the area of improving the social care system is a set of general objectives called reforms, and that is one part of how we have now had opportunities to feel. If it is to compare this document with earlier strategies that we had the opportunity to adopt, from earlier times we can conclude that it is actually a set of prescribed goals, and it is also backward compared to other documents. Everything we can now read in the field of system reform and social care can be read in four sentences, which is transparency, the adequateness of social benefits in the social protection system, the development of social mentoring services, the development of services in the community in order to prevent institutionalisation and the creation of a strategic framework for the overall and accessible care of older people. How inert and trom this system can be that when alarms occur to you from the field and this is not controversial cases but really a breakdown of social care as regards child protection, older people, mental health of citizens, isn't that enough for you to really see what problems are priorities and what is happening to you in the welfare system? And now you have a chance to do something and you're still not offering solutions. As investments for these reforms, as I have said in these four sentences, you are offering out of seven investments four investments are related to the digitisation of the social care system, web applications, the integration of the social care system, the institution with the local level, the price calculation methodologies because is this really the most important thing for the welfare system at this point? Do you think this is a priority while we have fatal outcomes in the homes of social care, while we have 4.439 children at the accommodation, and 2015. Was that number 2,895? Documents in earlier periods have recognised the investment of foster care, strengthening family-law protection, here is a controversial indication of prevention in the field of family and children, strengthening inter-resorship cooperation. These were indeed the priorities of all documents, not digitisation, not social mentorship in the welfare system. The home transformation process is something that is not new, since 2013. We've been through this for the kids. All children's homes are now services centres in the community. How do you respond to an increased requirement for child accommodation? You respond in a way that reduces the number of foster parents continuously, and instead of strengthening foster care, you place these children back in social care institutions that we have transformed into community service centres. So we moved outside the institution and gave children more adequate care in foster families. At the end of 2019. The number of foster parents for children and adults was 2,794, and at the end of 2015. There were 3,048 foster parents. So within five years, the number of foster parents was reduced by 254 people or foster families. So now you say, you've passed the Household Act 2018. Now you're changing it because you think there are certain illogicalities in that law. So you've reversed both the law and foster care as such. The Social Care Act is now suddenly ready and is about to come out and will be in the government, I don't know 24.4. If this hadn't all happened, it would have been because you are adequately and continuously taking care of the welfare system, and you have not brought any documents about the reorganization of the welfare system. Therefore, this document is also not in line with the National Development Strategy, where it says the system will be strengthened and the role of the social care centre will be strengthened and public powers will be removed. We do not see from this which public authority will be singled out or we do not have a decision that is in the future welfare centres, whether these are administrative centres for cash compensation or whether it is a headquarters for working with the family.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45507	We have a replica, distinguished representative Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45508	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues. I closely followed your exposure, of course that you are from the social care system and you have a lot of information, but it is difficult to answer these questions in which you address the minister what he did to reduce the number of foster parents. The number of foster parents is reduced, it is normally one process, the Household Act has been adopted to stimulate fostering and every law is valorised in practice and every law is changed, if something has not proved well, it is definitely changing and it is positive, not to remain on it. As for deinstitutionalisation, I have always advocated we should have a strong institution and develop outside the institution, when we develop outside the institution then shut down the institution. But we put it, banned it from the facilities, didn't do any prevention because it's impossible to do it because we decided to do it. And we don't put children in institutions, and our families are falling apart. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] It's not the minister's work, it's the whole social order. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45509	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45510	Thank you. Well, here I disagree, it certainly is not the minister's fault, but the minister is responsible for finding a solution and he needs to lead and organise the entire welfare system. As for deinstitutionalisation, so they made certain steps of the service centres in the community they formed in doing so a step in the development of foster care, that's where you stopped. So for five years you've done nothing, it's obvious that the number of foster parents has decreased for nearly 300 foster families, that's the responsibility of the minister or the entire ministry and system, you can't say that it isn't. As for outside institutions that stand for adults, which is now here in the plan, means the plan is to set up seven service centres, and neither have we got an answer on who will do it and where it will be built and how these centres will be organised in general.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45511	Next individual debate, distinguished Rada Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45512	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. The most important are reforms and investments, without reforms there is no investment. This isn't a helicopter money said by representing the government of the NPO, and today the prime minister said this wasn't the money from the helicopter or the money from the water heater, he probably meant the flow water heater so that it wouldn't leak. He told us that this plan must allow for the transition to a circular economy, so it must not be a flow water heater. But it's interesting that component 4 speaks of an economy in the future this incredibly poetic, so maybe it's better to talk in the future economy. As I'm a linguist, I'd like to say something about the language itself, because here we've heard that the most important reforms and the most important investments, and we ourselves know that all systems of justice, education, health care, pension care, social welfare have not experienced so far, but only cosmetic reforms, and we think again that we're going to do upgrades to digitization on something, here is one of the ministers who said that his system is ugly. So if the system is ugly, I don't know how we're going to fix it by digitizing it? I'd say the system isn't just ugly, but it looks like Swiss cheese like a lot of others. But here I'll keep it on one component only to show which language, what language we use in this document, and all those who wrote different European projects know that this whole program is actually written on one side, a language that we already know 20 years ago and a new bureaucratic eu. Namely, this is where you speak, for example. Right at the beginning of the opening, the labour market is just described as the result of pandemic cases, again we are not told what kind of labour market it was for which we know that for decades it has been exposed to both poor policies and poor labour legislation as if only because of the pandemic, we are at risk of jobs and the social security of citizens. So the document is filled with phrases, often very traditional syntagms, e.g. talk about continuing investment, preserving jobs, creating a modern labour market without us defining what would be modern, creating new quality jobs, which are new quality jobs, reducing the unemployment rate, promoting lifelong learning, improving workers through investments in adapting labour market needs, etc., etc. As the project seems, I believe that strict evaluators in the EU that the project has been written by some associations and would not accept it because very often someone does not distinguish the implementation from the objectives without saying the goals of the results without saying that it would not have passed because there are no time limits here, and there is no indicator, for example. implementation. Here are some examples, unfortunately, our time is leaking, let's say, under the reform of the investment in component 4 stands "the improvement of employment measures and the legal framework for the modern labour market and the economy in the future", so whether that is how the overall employment rate is predicted and of course we have reduced some HDZ has reduced some ambitions from 200,000 to new jobs that we have recently had to 100,000 jobs and, of course, for the needs of the green and digital transition of the labour market. So please look at the language in which it is written. When a clear and modern legislative framework is mentioned, so say what is clear and what is a modern framework that will promote fair working conditions, encourage transitional forms of employment indefinitely. So how are we going to encourage employment at an indefinite time when at this point all the newly concluded labour contracts are at a certain 90, I think, and 2%. So the language used here is two seconds left, so here we can just talk about administration and about the administrative language. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45513	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Marina Opačak Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45514	Dear Vice-President HS, respected representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. So all day we are discussing the grants Croatia will receive, which is the amount of €6.3 billion and an additional €3.6 billion for more favourable loans and guarantees. Our topic today is the Information on the Summary of the Recovery Plan, but obviously from previous discussions of colleagues that we are more like parliamentary representatives here as passive observers, and by reading the reforms in the plan for the distribution of this money we find most of the words "we should", "we will cut", "we will increase," but nothing concrete says how, why and how. So I guess for most of the reform sectors, there's still no plan or programme for the same. In the document we read about a huge number of actions, projects, strategies, but without clearly defined focus and true direction what we want and where we want, and especially how we want to achieve it. The covida pandemic hit the Croatian economy, which recorded a decline in activity of nearly 8.5% last year. And of course we also need reforms and investments to recover this same economy, and to strengthen competitiveness. The length of the covid recession will depend, among other things, on the success in withdrawing funds and we need a significant growth in absorption capacity to get out of the current economic situation. That is why it is important to join the recovery plan from the foundation. It would be logical to use the funds for what they are intended for, primarily for economic recovery, and for resilience and economy, and then for some possible future crises. But from the recovery plan, I will isolate something that is unclear to me in the Sector for improving the use of natural resources and strengthening the food supply chain. It has been stated that this reform is being launched to increase food security and the competitiveness of the Croatian agricultural sector. However, this component of the plan does not foresee activities in all agricultural sectors, nor fully address the issue of the use of agricultural or forestry resources or rural development issues, which ultimately means that these reforms do not relate to the development of rural areas, nor to the resolution of agricultural land which remains unworked and abandoned. My question to the promoters is how do you plan to strengthen the food supply chain if agricultural land remains unprocessed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45515	You don't have a replica. Let's move on, the individual debate next, the distinguished representative Mirela Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45516	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we had a moment ago the opportunity to listen to colleague Josip Boric in his individual debate where he listed the projects or measures that are intended to be taken, and on the basis of this document, the basis of the NPOO summary, asking all of us here, is this not a good procedure, is it not a good project, should this not be built, should this not be done? And I think you'll agree with the opposition both of you and ruling when I say that no one here present in this, in this assembly, not just now this moment, but this morning when we were all here, I would not say to any of the above projects, any of the above-mentioned procedures. However, what cannot be denied cannot be denied that the document that has been given to us parliamentary representatives is, in fact, exactly what is called just information not about NPOO, but information about its summary. And the document is not a way of making his summary first, so then the whole document, but exactly the opposite, at least when we talk about the documents that are being discussed. In order for us to discuss something properly, we must have insight into it. Based on what we've got at our disposal to discuss, we don't. And I have to ask myself why we had him or why the government even put him under discussion, what should we discuss? That we need to increase energy efficiency, is that what someone needs to discuss? Well, it's one of your measures, to increase energy efficiency. Is that what our debate requires? No, we're just spending taxpayers' money, the employees here are getting their salary, and at this time there's a much higher cost on the burden of the state budget, and on the burden of our citizens than it would have been if we hadn't entertained under quotes with this document. However, what would interest all of us, including the public, primarily the citizens who are paying us, is how will the objectives set out in the information on the summary of the NPOO document be achieved? What I've taken in more detail is two things, energy and corruption. In each segment and in the second segment, the information is not specified enough to allow the document to be accepted or evaluated effectively or quality. Words and objectives such as fostering energy efficiency are mentioned, such as increasing the use of renewable energy sources, etc., etc. and then only two concrete projects are listed in that segment, one of them is the Biorefinery in Sisak, but nowhere is it said how this biorefinery will be brought into line with agricultural policies. What am I talking about? I'm talking about that the plant material that should be used for the development of this Biorefinery in Sisak and the subsequent training of the production of the product that will be there should be placed on a very large agricultural surface. Artificial fertilisers will also be used on that agricultural surface. If artificial fertilisers are used, we have not achieved one of the objectives that you are declaring, which is the green economy, or the reduction of CO2 emissions, in this biorefinery. If this biorefinery project is so cost-effective, why didn't INA or MOL take it, if this project is profitable? Why is he now planning to finance himself from these funds for recovery and resilience, and it has been announced in the media that it will be financed from the EU Innovation Fund or the Innovation Fund? What, since I have very little time, I would like to point out, I would like to point out that on the fundamental problem that is affecting our society and which has just brought our economy into a position of insufferability and in the position that corruption must be recovered is corruption, and corruption is not the letter in this document. What eats up our society will not be solved by this way, I suggested it was rejected, of course it was refused to introduce transparency of spending of public funds, public money on All levels, state-owned, at the level of public enterprises, however, make a natural and ruling HDZ turn its head. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45517	Replica, Dalia Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45518	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I think that since the whole day's debate, you've actually scored the most and guessed the very essence of the problem. In this way where we all hold monologues ourselves in honor, Croatia is absolutely no use, and it really is not fair to employees, regardless of what it is and it is only an increased cost. I agree with you on concrete solutions, there are few concrete solutions. The way we debate also concerns the provisions of the Rules of Procedure that I myself have advocated that we should change them, and I hope that the opposition will begin to strike at a pace and ask that when we discuss Croatia's future to discuss how we're going to solve something, rather than quote a list of beautiful desires that I believe most HDZs would not be able to read properly, and let God not quote on their own.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45519	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45520	Dear Representative Oreshkovic, that is, you have given me room to answer or to complete my presentation, which is what is nowhere in the document is neither recognized nor the solution offered. Of course, not all of these segments that are listed are offered any concrete solution or at least we have no right to see it, and here we should praise it and say that it is a great document. We just don't know what to say it's great. What's the key problem, the key problem is corruption, corruption, concrete and constructive proposals, solutions that can be introduced tomorrow for very little money, we don't even need these funds from this fund. Of course, Prime Minister Plenkovic also took his head off this morning and here, the present minister, they didn't answer my question, I'm talking about Minister Malenica. Why? Because they simply do not want to implement the fight against corruption because, in that case, neither could these funds be effectively dimmed as all other public funds, the funds of the taxpayers of the Republic of Croatia, are effectively blacked out.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45521	Next individual debate, Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45522	My colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to have to talk about a document that's phantom, as well as a lot of documents we've unfortunately discussed so far, which is the National Recovery and Resistance Plan. We haven't seen him, we're talking about a summary, we're talking about some document that's being summarised on, you're not going to believe 80 pages or 60 doesn't even matter. We also heard arguments that, let's say, Hungarian friends, our Hungarian friends summed up that document on the 10 pages you understand, but they didn't send it to Parliament. Our prime minister is talking about respecting parliamentary deputies, respecting Parliament, but at the same time he's sending us what? Graduation papers, not even graduation papers, this is a little better reference. And he sends it to us when? 5th to 12th, he sends it to us 15 days before the tentative deadline ok, but still the deadline when we need to hand it over to the EU and then expects as here, give me the suggestions. So isn't that offensive colleagues and colleagues? That's not offensive, I don't want to use the terms for what it is. As we could hear about this speaker about the National Development Strategy, this is a summary I hold in my hand, and then the prime minister waved "here we have it". Well, of course, apparently not, of course, we're supposed to have a NPOO that nobody's seen, and what are you afraid of, Prime Minister? What are you afraid of ruling? Why did you leave two ministers who were probably least responsible for this, the health minister who should take care of other matters or the minister of pension system among other achievements that should also be taken care of other things, not of what we are talking about today? This should be the focus of the prime minister and the focus of the Deputy Prime Minister, not these two ministers you left here. I think Minister Beros has a lot of other problems and other jobs than to listen to what we have to say about this, we have to say, very much. Al-Prime Minister was supposed to sit here and listen to what we had to say about it if he wanted to be so much of a Democrats. Because I'm going to write to my colleagues and colleagues the same Brussels you're swearing to and tell him that we've been here discussing a summary, a summary of a colleague and a colleague. Next time we're gonna talk about what, the draft, the napkin, what are we gonna talk about here, what are we gonna talk about here? Are we a serious, serious state, a serious home, a serious parliament? I think it's very difficult for me to be serious here because one Barnier held the talks on the brexith open, he's open-minded, and we can't keep the document open that we said was 80% agreed with the EU, so if 80% agreed, so give us what's agreed, so at least we can agree on that. No, I don't. We need to do what HDZ calls consensus, and what HDZ calls consensus is that you will agree to what we say because it is a consensus. But he won't ask us sooner, he won't ask us later, but he'll say, "You'll say yes now or you'll say no." If you say no, then you don't like Croatia. Well, colleagues and colleagues can only conclude that Croatia does not like those who think the way HDZ does. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45523	We have a replica. Dear representative Marina Opačak Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45524	Col. Hajduković, in the context of economic recovery, can be a key problem of absorption and our ability to withdraw as much funds as possible. There is no recovery plan, nor does the document attach importance to this particular issue. Furthermore, an uncritical approach to the collection of projects to be financed by the NPOO opens another potential risk of realising the plan with the problem of realising the funds, which we do not want to do. In your debate, I just want to add that I hope that the question of our power to realise the sufficient amount of projects in the planned period will not be the topic we will discuss in a few years.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45525	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45526	Thank you very much. My colleague, that's going to be a sad topic, and not only that, I'm afraid there's going to be a lot of other issues, it's going to be a topic of whether we succeeded in pulling those money back, how much money we're going to pay back, and why. And yet 100 questions why did we know where we wanted to pull them, how, through whom and for what purpose? No, as we do not know now what projects are, what is the added value that remains in Croatia through these projects? We don't know today, we won't know tomorrow, we won't know the day after tomorrow. Here's your best example: Project Slavonia. Who's gonna pull those projects? Ha, I'm afraid of some with IDs, some with last names, etc. and what added value will remain in the area, not just Slavonia, in Croatia in general? Weak to none. And what have we done with that? At least for Croatia, at least for Slavonia, at least for our region, at least for our city. And that's the sad truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45527	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Danica Baricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45528	I thank the chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, respected ministers. Here is the NPOO plan that covers all areas of importance for the Croatian economy and society. It defines reform routes and investment areas that will achieve the country's economic and social recovery, but also strengthen the resilience of our economy and state to crisis. This plan recognized all the challenges Croatia faces and, with the programme of planned activities for recovery and resilience, is a real tool for reform and transformation. From this point on, it is evident that its realisation will contribute to a more favourable structure and efficiency of the economy, a better public administration and justice, better services for citizens and entrepreneurs, as well as the development of a quality system of education and science. The national plan also includes the necessary innovative employment policies, the improvement of the pension system, the quality of social protection, the modernisation of the health system and energy and the counter-quake reconstruction of buildings. The plan also shows that the economic and social development of all parts of Croatia is stimulated and special focus is given on demographic revitalisation, which in times of pandemic poses an additional challenge. For the area of the economy, the largest share of the budget allocation is foreseen is 54%, and in this exhibition I would particularly like to touch precisely on the strengthening of the competitiveness of the green transition of the economy and the development of sustainable, innovative and resilient tourism. The recovery and resilience of the economy are extremely important conditions in which business operators operate, the business environment in Croatia characterises the number and complexity of administrative requirements and therefore it is necessary to implement measures that will simplify business and make it easier and faster. The activities envisaged by the national plan are aimed precisely at facilitating the launch of operations, digitisation of procedures, excerpts and authorisations for work, unifying the payment of compulsory fees and digitising the submission of applications and administrative procedures relevant to entrepreneurs. Despite all the activities and support programmes undertaken, the economy is having a hard time recovering from the pandemic crisis. It will be crucial here to support the economic recovery led by the private sector, which requires access to adequate funding. It is extremely important and planned here to encourage investment in new investment projects and special emphasis on green technologies. In this way, new competences will be developed, production and exports increased, existing and encouraged to create new jobs, including through loans and interest rates subsidies. Complication is a matter of activities that will improve the Croatian business environment, the state services to entrepreneurs will be significantly improved, primarily through digitalisation, market liberalisation, services, improvement of regulation impact assessment systems and the creation of a strategic investment framework for promotion and investment attraction. In this way, business in Croatia will be simpler, cheaper, more stimulating for investment, and the resilience and competitiveness of Croatian companies will be greatly strengthened. In part of the National Recovery and Resistance Plan relating to tourism, we heard a lot about it today, and the minister here, given his share and the importance of tourism for Croatia's economy, the necessity of those investments that allow for the acceleration of transition towards sustainable tourism and tourism recovery will have a positive impact on important activities such as trade, agriculture, buildings, processing, cultural, sports, recreational activities, transport and many others, and consequently on increasing employment and demographic revitalisation. Finally, the National Recovery and Resistance Plan will strongly raise our readiness for rapid, sustainable, inclusive recovery and stability of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45529	Thank you. We have one replica of the distinguished representative Branko Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45530	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague Baričević, you spoke about the economy, tourism, entrepreneurs, privates, tell me how important on your island had the support to preserve the jobs that the government has granted since March last year? In total, more than 100,000 employers withdrew funds for more than 600,000 workers, amounting to around 10 billion kuna, when we add and contribute, and all those funds that have withdrawn to settle fixed costs. I believe that this is the great amount and great importance that he had on your island as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45531	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45532	I'd like to thank the honourable MPs. Yes, as we have heard today from this National Recovery and Resistance Plan 6.3 billion euros for economic recovery awaits us, after the Government of the Republic of Croatia has already covered salaries as you have said for 680,000 Croatian workers and my islanders, 120,000 employers, so the total contributions of 14 million kuna have been written off. So, we expect much, much further from this tourist season and look forward to European citizens having a green passport by summer which will facilitate access and tourist flow, and this will be very important for our islanders and for our success in the tourist season. And also from this recovery plan, at least 30% goes to the private sector right now, and here is a very important measure for us, and everything the government does for our islanders and the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45533	Next individual debate, Davor Find. He's gone. Next is an individual debate by Goran Ivanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45534	Thank you very much. The Honorable Vice-President of HS, distinguished ministers, distinguished MPs and MPs. Here we are slowly approaching the end of this debate which is very, very important. But it seems to me that this is about the debate that we must return the EU 50 billion euros or kuna, not as if we are going to withdraw those funds. When we are best at something or when we will withdraw most in percentage, then it is because we are the worst in the EU, when we will get the most then we are beggars. Well, I'd be begging for my country, so whatever I ask will be used well. I come from Slavonia. Slavonia needs recovery and this NPOO is certainly something that will bring Slavonia good. We heard today from the presentation of certain ministers and ministers, which means it. Agriculture as an important segment of the Croatian economy is something that Slavonia absolutely needs. We heard from Minister Vukkovic, building regional fruit distribution centres, vegetables is something that is reality and something that will happen through this plan. Osijek-Baranja County has set out to build such a regional distribution centre and will certainly demonstrate this resistance and that recovery we are looking for. The improvement of the water economy is also for Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem one important segment without which we simply cannot create conditions and preconditions for that agriculture that we want to talk about here. Tourism. Tourism is something that has become everyday on the continent, and without investment in this continental tourism, we will not strengthen the Croatian or Slavonian villages that I have heard here in the debate of individuals remain empty. The Slavonian villages are not empty, Slavonian villages, I visit them, in which I am practically daily, they may have suffered as well as urban areas in the entire Republic of Croatia. Transitions are something that's happened before, it's happening now and it's just that I don't think that's what should be focus right now. Construction of KBC in Osijek for a region with 800,000 inhabitants is also a strategic project in which we must invest, invest money. Through this money that will come from the NPOO is certainly money we won't have to spend from our own budget. This way I want to invite all the mayors, mayors and mayors to start preparing and start preparing projects, because this money, as the prime minister said, won't fall out of the helicopter, we'll have to fight for this money. Therefore, the sooner we start preparing more likely funds and withdrawing, and I would like a good portion of those funds to end up, of course, in our Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem. It's the end I come from, and it's certainly something that would mean a lot to me. What's good about this all that's been discussed here is that Croatia has potential in all the segments discussed today and that's what gives us a chance and an opportunity to create a framework for a better tomorrow. But I have to say one thing, it's often mentioned here and often it wants to get muddled on, on HDZ and HDZ is the worst political option in the history of the Croatian people, these are all criminals and thieves who simply put everything that comes into their pockets. It's a lie, it's an unfair, unfair relationship with all the hardworking chiefs, mayors and mayors who work for the good of their end. Domagoj Hajdukovic is giving a lecture to the HDZ. Who runs the city of Osijek in the last 8 years.? HDZ? No, I don't. The management of the SDP, but Osijek has become a Palanka, which is the problem of Domagoj Hajdukovic that you want to transfer everything to this side, wash your hands and tell us we are not guilty of anything. You're guilty of a lot of things, but it doesn't matter, it's important that this national plan brings good to Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45535	You have two replicas, the first one is Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45536	Thank you very much. Well, it's not HDZ's fault. No, I don't. HDZ is to blame for the development of Slavonia. HDZ is to blame for Slavonia being one of the most advanced regions in Croatia, HDZ is to blame for people returning to Slavonia, HDZ is to blame. And you know why? Because he's been in power in that same Slavonia for so long a dear colleague. The distribution center is a great thing. That's what I told your colleague, Radic, but he's late 30. KBC is also a great thing, but how many people will return to Slavonia, my dear fellow? How much? You invite these mayors and the mayors to pick up, so they're all HDZ, so who are you calling, dear colleague? Who are you calling? Answer what? To make HDZ do what? Well, you're in power there for 30 years. And what did you do? Nothing, mate. Nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45537	Answer, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45538	Thank you very much. I will speak with one lower intonation than my colleague Domagoj Hajdukovic. HDZ's done a lot. Now let's just take the Osijek-Baranja County. He's in power of HDZ. At 4 a.m. about 5 billion kuna projects. So Osijek-Baranja County 35, 35 JLS or 35 municipalities and 7 cities, 5 billion kuna. It's nothing to you. Of course, 5 billion SDP is absolutely nothing. The SDP and Croatia represent nothing, but I have a message for you. The opposition is angry and eat, but Croatia's recovery follows. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45539	The next replica is distinguished representative Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45540	Thank you very much, Vice President. Here's my friend. You made me laugh. I was actually going to say that you're reading the same document, both you and your colleague Hajdukovic, and one and the other are coming from Slavonia. However, you see in this document many more opportunities, additional opportunities besides what was invested in Slavonia through various projects and programmes, you see even more opportunities fellow Highdukovic does not see them. And it really fascinates me now how to interpret that from his debate, and even now from this replica he can read, so where everyone, it's been done for someone else to use, it's been done to get money out of someone else's, it's been done for someone else to take advantage of. It's gonna benefit you from someone's ID, someone's people, someone's people. I don't know who doesn't. I don't know if you guys can't read. Well, you're HDZ's guy just like your colleague Oreshkovic said we're illiterate, HDZ can't read. Then did someone convince you of this document? [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45541	Answer. And the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45542	Thank you very much. Article 238 has been injured. I don't know if I can read but I don't know you co-workers can't listen. For I have not said this in one word, in any word in my debate, nor in my replica, and you shall prove to me that it is wrong. Because I'll forgive the president now to ask the board for an opinion, then, because what my colleague said absolutely does not stand and I ask you to give a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45543	This was a pure replica. You have a warning. This wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. ... You have a warning. [[Intruder Hajdukovic, not understood.]] Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45544	Thank you very much. Here is my dear colleague Murganić, I think that the task of our parliamentary representatives here in the Croatian Parliament is to see the opportunity in everything. We need to see the opportunity in this, it's our task, it's something that can just lead us to that dimension of the more we're all talking about and that we're defending. I'm a man who doesn't have to, as Mrs. Dalia Oreshkovic said, even though I respect her very much for staying for the rest of the debate. Many left, said several parolees here, then fled from the Croatian Parliament and they are stars. She stayed until the end. I didn't read, here's everything I said, I said from my own experience, I said from what I experienced in those units of local self-government that I went to and after all, and I was almost four years deputy mayor in Osijek-Baranja County. And everything I said, I said for the sake of Croatia really becoming a better state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45545	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45546	Dear President, fellow MPs and fellow MPs. My colleague Ivanovic thank you for thanking me for staying up until the small hours of the night, not for the first time or for the last time, I will remain more or less always if I am not prevented by a serious disease and the reason why I did not come here to collect populist points, nor to object to the injuries of the Rules of Procedure when all cameras are recording. I entered the Croatian Parliament because I have a certain knowledge and experience of working on objects, working on the ground. I came here to write out my vision of Croatia this year as it should be. It is clear to me that even this summary of anti-corruption thesis, let alone a complete new draft of the anti-corruption strategy, will neither be accepted nor allowed to be discussed, let alone be implemented, and unfortunately not a good part of the opposition will stand behind my proposals and solutions. But I will leave this behind as well as numerous other suggestions. One day when Croatia remains in ruins to know that someone was fighting for what Croatia should one day be. And now to get back to the topic itself. How does the first sentence of this National Recovery Plan go? The pandemic of the Corona virus suddenly hit the world, causing the chain of closure of states and economies, thus creating the biggest crisis since World War II, so one would think that that recovery plan designed by the EU was primarily adopted in order to recover from a virus that suddenly hit the world. And then when we read what our government has agreed with the Commission, what we should implement from the reform of administration, justice, etc. etc. We see that Croatia does not really need to recover from the coronary virus, we will easily do so. Croatia needs to recover from HDZ, I'm sorry to say. And of all the occupations that Croatia has had through its tumultuous, difficult turbulence history is the worst of yours. The most you've robbed, the most you've stolen, the most you've alienated, the most you've poored, and the most you've created by holding your heart on patriotic fingers. That Croatia will not forgive you. If you were to talk about each segment of this list of beautiful desires, I will only say the level to which the absurdities of digitalization and digital transformations are going. Whatever you gentlemen are going to digitize. This is the application form with which we report for individual debates, debates on behalf of clubs, closing words and the like. For the injuries of the Rules of Procedure and replicas, we report to these plates. This morning, fifty of them raised one stick there at the same time. It's about the eye skills of an officer depending on which order someone's going to sign up, to say the word. You are unable to come up with a simple application that would be able to develop a little better student at our colleges. You would have digitized Croatia since Tomislav Karamark. There is no ‘d’ from digitisation. And then where are all the other structural reforms, the judiciary. So we were unable to agree not on the election of the President of the Supreme Court, no one in this Chamber could explain why we had even changed the law requiring the establishment of a public call and delivery of a résumé, but we were arguing whether the law was constitutional or not, and no one thought to trouble the constitutionality of that law from 2018 to today. Well, I'm actually ashamed to admit that I'm an SS rep, because people expect things to change around here. I can't change. And you know why? Because we designed the Rules of Procedure that formed the debate so that everyone takes them into their own beards. I'm saying something that's important to me, my colleague has become a songwriter, you're doing well, rhymes are getting better, you're making progress in this term, they like to provoke that same Rulesman who's bad so they might jump through, so they can get media attention in the morning and be invited to some evening show. That's what HS was all about. There's no discussion here about ideas, and here we're not at this famous thesis on digitisation of what companies we're going to give it to, by which criteria, why don't we do what I advocate, a single programme for transparent payments and payments from all public budgets, not that every unit spends its own. Any concrete proposal does not have a framework for quality discussion at all in this house called Parliament [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Because they should be in it, and they should argue. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45547	Replica, the esteemed representative of Mario Kapulica. ... Please don't argue with each other, allow the MP. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go, Mr. Capula.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45548	Here I go for a while, I don't want.../Speakers speak at the same time./... I just wanted to.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45549	I'm sorry, I'm just laughing, I'm trying, and I want to hear from you, and I want to answer you, but I can't hear you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45550	So I don't know how, so I'm sorry that you came to HS with the ambition to be just a chronicler of Croatian doom, I believe you have more ambition for both Croatia and your mandate. And yet Croatian voters decide on whom Croatia should recover, and they decided in both this and the previous parliamentary elections that Croatia should recover from the SDP and their coalition partners. I think it is relevant when it comes to Croatia being recovered from. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45551	Yes, you were obviously sitting on your ears when I said that I would leave my vision of better Croatia in writing through this mandate. And since Mrs. Murganic said that you HDZ people can read, I'll give you... So you'll see what I stand for, and then we'll... [[A speaker away from the microphone, you don't understand.]] discuss at the end of this term. [[A speaker away from the microphone, you don't understand.]] I was loud enough so you heard me without a microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45552	You've finished distinguished MPs no more replicas. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, Ms. Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45553	I thank the esteemed vice president of HS. He's been injured. In 238, of course, because it is a representative there is really no measure to when, how, with which words and with which bitterness it directs insults to HDZ representatives. Of course she's too perfect, she doesn't lift up the lines, she doesn't lift the injuries of the Rules of Procedure, she knows who's stealing, she knows how much anyone can read, so I think this Croatia is really overjoyed by what really turned out to be a miracle like this. I don't want to say anything worse. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] All duties will pass, but surely this What you left with your performance is... [[Santer Invader: Time.]] [[A speaker away from the microphone, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45554	Your time is up, please. Time, warning, second warning. So you've received two warnings. Next individual debate, distinguished representative Maja Grba Bujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45555	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, ministers and dear colleagues. The health of citizens is among the key objectives of each country, as a public good that is necessary to ensure through the available financial efficient public health system. This is particularly highlighted during the pandemic period, which has led to significant increases in budget allocations for the health system, including the purchase of medical equipment, medicines and vaccines, which is a challenging challenge for public finances that have reduced revenues due to limited economic activity. In addition, as a result of its geographical specificity, the Republic is faced with the challenges of providing equally accessible quality healthcare in rural, deprived, hard-to-reach and remote areas. We also recognise the challenges of improving health outcomes and achieving a balance between financial opportunities and rising costs associated with new and advanced treatment methods due to technological and scientific progress, but also increased demand for health care due to aging. Therefore, in order to build a long-term resilient society and to preserve citizens' health as a public good in the field of health care, reforms and investments are necessary to enable the strengthening and achievement of a financially sustainable public health system. The National Recovery and Resistance Plan therefore provides projects that are at a high stage of preparation that can quickly gain a positive impact on the health system as a whole and which can strengthen the resilience and preparedness of the health system for the challenges ahead. In order to get where we want, and this is a longer life expectancy, a better quality of life and a reduction of health inequalities in the context of improving the efficiency of the quality and availability of the healthcare system through the NPOO will strengthen primary health care, filling the network of public health services to ensure the conditions for carrying out 80% of primary cases. In the context of introducing a new model of care for key health challenges, with the aim of timely diagnosis of treatment and rehabilitation of cancer patients, diabetes, cardiovascular and rare diseases, a hospital system will be restructured to establish regional centres of excellence in which patients are undergoing the most complex operations, but also to establish accredited multidisciplinary psychological oncology teams with an increase and publication of patient health outcomes. Portal for patients of psychological, social and health rehabilitation measures and introduction of clinical and e-routines. The total investment in this reform measure alone is 900 million kuna. In the context of the introduction of a system of strategic human resources management in health care, special training of doctors at primary level of medical care will be possible, as well as additional nurses and technicians in emergency medical activities, thus ensuring, in the absence of hospital emergency medicine, the raising of the competences necessary for the independent work of teams without doctors. The total investment in this reform measure is 500 million kuna. In the context of the introduction of financial sustainability of the healthcare system, the implementation of the combined public procurement of medicinal products, orthopaedic aids and financial goods and services will continue. The total investment in this reform measure will amount to 212 million kuna. In the context of eHealth, management capacity will be improved through more efficient data use and innovative health solutions for quality management of the health system, the national health information management system will also be established, without which we cannot continue, build national data analysis capacities, and without analysis, we cannot make decisions, develop national capacity for the use of artificial intelligence, and allow the development of new and expansion of existing telemedical services. The total investment in this reform measure is 194 million. A total of 23 projects from the health component of 2 billion and 563,703 and 700 kuna will be financed through the Recovery and Resistance Mechanism, based on the NPOO. I think it is very clear how much we need this mechanism, and also the reform measures in general in the health system from what is foreseen are not questionable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45556	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Eric Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45557	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. This document that's a draft, a summary, we can read in different ways. We can read it through the prism glass ball of code we see, but we stick to the text of the document and try to be serious about this at this time of night. When we talk about the document itself, I will stick to what we discussed on the Committee on European Affairs, about what I may know, so in the part that is related to improving the pension system, it says C4.2. improving the pension system through increasing the adequateness of pensions. Art. The 45th Constitution speaks of pensions, salaries and incomes worthy of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. There is no question of compliance with the constitution here either, but the implementation reads "refining the pension model is planned to amend the Pension Insurance Act". Okay. But I have a glass ball and you have a glass ball. What does that mean? Are we going to make these family pensions compatible with our personal pension, by what criteria, by what standards? Are we going to make them compatible with working relationships because a deceased family member, especially when it comes to family retirement, after the death of an insurance company, has contributed to the maintenance of a family who, because of an accident at work or because of a car accident, simply has a certain drama and is not enough family pension for a minor child only, but also for a woman who works and receives a miserable salary in the Republic. That's probably what it says in those 700-800-2000 pages that I don't have a chance to see, so it's hard for me to grade. What does that mean? What does it mean to redefine family pensions? Then we still have the part that is related to redefining, or the adequateness of pensions from II would increase. Retirement pillar. Please explain to me the term “adequateness II. Retirement pillar’. I'll get more than II. Retirement pole? I am a supporter of those who consider that II. The pension pillar should be strengthened, very simple, because the system of generation solidarity is in crisis because it certainly works and works and it is great the moment we have employment growth, but in the long term how long it must be planned it is a question and demographic growth, etc. So we have to have one defense, so that doesn't go through the generational solidarity system then it happens through the system of capitalizing personal savings, so through II. Retirement system. Now, an increase in the contribution of compulsory pension funds. Okay, okay. But be careful, the expected results on page 42, I would like to ask the translation into Croatian to improve the culture of corporate governance as an incentive to the investment potential of mandatory pension funds, thus creating potential for higher yield rates, and thus higher pensions for future generations of pensioners, the second pension column. So that's what I said, so we have to improve culture to have a higher rate of yield. Would you please translate it to me in English? Is that the culture, so yes, the fact is, you need to improve culture. Because if we look at how many pension funds have lost good investment and management in Agrokor, the Agrokor system or, for example, in Ulanik. So, the Oil Keeper and even at the port of Rijeka, that they really need a culture of governance. But I don't think it's called culture, I think it's called a little different. But we called it culture. Great! And there's one more thing, and that's me thinking on page 59. Therefore, the main and responsible for the resolution objectives within that component. So, that phrase I really mean don't get me wrong, but it's confusing to me, but I'll read it to you. He says: “Further improvement of the pension system by increasing the adequateness of pensions from the first and second pension pillars through redefine the model of family pensions and increasing pensions from the second pension pillar.” What do the first and second pension pillars have to do with family pensions? You have to explain it to me. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] It's a good thing you don't have to defend it. It's the Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45558	With this, we've exhausted an individual discussion and now we're going to take five minutes off for the bathroom. That's 23 and 35. We'll continue the meeting at 22.30 p.m. We're moving on with our work. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 11:36 A.M.]] SDP representative club final Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45560	Thank you very much. So, we spent the whole day discussing one document, nice colleagues, which is funny to you, but we spent the whole day discussing one document that should have been discussed long ago, at least according to the Prime Minister's announcements, more than eight months ago. Eight months, at least, according to the Prime Minister's announcement. The only thing worse than the intransparentity of a colleague and a colleague like I said at the beginning of the day is hypocritical transparency, and that's this. Because what do we have? We don't even have a complete document, we have a draft, sketches, a summary of however you want the documents that are right in front of us, and you should think that we should be grateful because here is HDZ and Prime Minister Plenkovic in their great generosity, openness, transparency and democracy, and here is a draft of a sketch or a summary of a document. Well done, co-workers and co-workers, bravo. What more can I tell you? Well done, yes. Draft document. You can make fun of a colleague if your range is to compose lyrics, not to talk about serious EU documents. Your colleague Murganic would say that I'm bad enough to say that you should still be a minister if you were good. And why didn't you? I'd ask your prime minister if he were here, if I were bad, but I'm not. I love you guys, and I appreciate it, and that's why I'm not going to ask you because I'm nice. I did. He would also ask his colleague Ivanovic, but not because I am dear to him, but I will ask him, so the HDZ in that Slavonia is in power for 30 years, except for Osijek-Baranja County, thank God, and 30 years, and Slavonia is the most backward region in Croatia. So I ask you why? And it was proclaimed the goal of the project Slavonia is to make Slavonia developed as the five most developed counties in Croatia. And you know what the only common names of the five most developed counties in Croatia are, that the HDZ is not in power. So I'm asking you, is that an accident? It's safe, it's safe. Because here we are now talking about a draft document, something that we should have talked about as a complete document or a draft document that can of course be changed because, as the Deputy Prime Minister knows, it is a document that still needs to be negotiated with the Union, but we could give our consent as Parliament to continue negotiations on this draft, especially if 80% even more so as the Government assures us, already agreed with the Commission. So what are we afraid of? Are we afraid of some projects that will involve families again? If we're talking about families, we know who he is. What are we afraid of? What is the issue, what must the Croatian public not see? We could get a draft after the document was negotiated, we could tell if we were satisfied or not, but that's less important, but only worse than non-transparency is hypocritical transparency and I'll tell you that again, as much as it hurts. What pains me is my colleagues and colleagues here too, which could also say I'm bad, but I won't, because I respect him enough, unlike him, that our chairman is a fascist and a chauvinist because he puts in my mouth the same words that I didn't say and interprets things that I said or didn't say and approves of a colleague who can call me anything he wants, and I can't say that she said something that's out of every book. So then I say to you colleagues and colleagues, democracy is a process, democracy is a process, if we don't have it, and I'm afraid we don't have it, and we have it less and less in this House, then I wonder where we are and where Croatia is with this process, with this House, with this HDZ and with this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45561	Injury of the Rules of Procedure Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45562	Your Honor, Vice President. Art. In 238, the representative insulted his colleague Murganić and his colleague Ivanovic and finally you, and I don't know what he got him out of, but apparently something strange is happening to him. And all that Slavonia didn't do, it's thanks to him who sits in this House all the time and does nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45563	Okay. We have another violation of the Rules of Procedure, Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45564	That's not a warning?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45565	It was a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45566	Oh, yeah, great. Art. 238, a colleague does not like Croatia by virtue of Article 238. 238, that she dared say something and didn't like Croatia, did you see what she was talking about? He does not like Croatia because he speaks against people who have been trying to do something in that Croatia for about 10 years, while she, what, raises her hand to thieves. Oh, my God, you're a great fellow.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45567	And a reminder to you. My colleague Ahmetovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45568	The chairman has injured the Rules of Procedure, Article 238, because you insult our common sense where, for the same abuse of the Rules of Procedure, it is a violation of the Rules of Procedure of people who are in opposition, you give a warning to people who are in the ruling majority who do not give notice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45569	A reminder to you, too. The club of representatives of the Centre and Vosa, the final representative of Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45570	Thank you, Chairman. So I didn't know that this evening's debate was this fun, because my colleagues Peric did it when you said that Mr. Hajdukovic was not doing anything in the Croatian Parliament at the time when 15 to 12 discussed with you I was wondering what you wanted to say? What do you tie the goblets under the table? Are you trading in currency crypts? What are you doing in the Croatian Parliament without a colleague Hajdukovic doing at the same time? But if you don’t waste my time, I want to say something important because there is really little time left for specific things. So let's go to C2 point 4. Improving the management of state assets and how we can link it to those of yours on digital as well as that of transformation, better governance, etc. Do you know how long Croatia has some kind of state property management strategy? It's been a long time. Look, you may have adopted her even during your term of office, and in any case, you should have spent it and you didn't. You can look on the website of the city of Zagreb, now there are local elections and it is interesting. And there's a property management strategy, especially real estate, and we're going to find it interesting about earthquakes. The state audit is still out there in 2012, 2015. Among 15 of its recommendations, she issued an order to build a public register of city property. The wonders of such a public registry are not to this day. No for the city of Zagreb, no for the Republic of Croatia, no for units of local and regional self-government. I guess I'd be embarrassed if we were to form one on the information side looking at a simple register where it would say what the state has, which the city has. What's his condition? Who's using it? How was he assigned? Who pays or doesn't pay rent or rent? And why don't we have that? Well, because then you would see different Žunići, Žinići, as they are already called, all yours, who you have placed in public property or other property without paying for anything there. And then you wonder when someone says it to your face, you say it's an insult. No, insulting is the fact that our citizens live every day. That's what's painful. It is also painful that, in this plan, if we can call it by any plan at all, we can repeat the same measures that are already mentioned in a whole series of strategic documents. It's not just about copying, the problem is that it's supposed to be done long ago and it's not. And the problem is that if we look at the title, I guess you can come up with the title, the title says the plan from 2021 to 2026, which means it goes beyond the period of your term of office. So if this is Croatia's recovery plan, I say Croatia should also recover from HDZ. If this is something about and someone who will inherit your authority, then we should all discuss our future together and compete on who has the best ideas not in our political interest, but in the interests of our citizens. And the fact is that all these millions and billions of European funds that will come to Croatia will not achieve their goal because Croatia is a dysfunctional state. Not a single sector, not a single system, which makes the state as a form at all not working properly, because from the very beginning of the 1990s, since we've created the state on a wrong footing. It's designed to please corruption, clienteleism, nepotism, and now that we've gnawed our tissues, when we've deprived and impoverished our citizens of Europe, recognizes that we are the poorest and need to be given the most. And it was tragic indeed today to listen either here from the assembly or where we are all because of the crown scattered around the Croatian Assembly, that you parrots repeat the amounts from the envelope that our minister successfully negotiated as if it were some happy circumstance. No, it is not a happy environment, the happy environment would be that Croatia has used its development potential, so that we need less because of the corona crisis. This would mean that we had people who really love the state, because loving the state means managing so that everyone in it lives well and not those who have a HDZ party card and most often in somebody else's account. That's what bothers me. And to end, if we want to do something good, then we should start to clean up all these wrong waters, change the system of electoral laws, reduce the number of counties, cities and municipalities, strengthen judicial independence, establish full fiscal transparency and strengthen preventive control bodies, especially the Commission for conflict of interest. And many of you might not be sitting here today if the body remained as strong and strong as it was. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45571	The next final debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, the distinguished representative Goran Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45572	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, distinguished ministers. Many today have taken advantage of accepting this national recovery and resilience plan, being here in the assembly maybe 15 minutes, 20 minutes, and talking about something that has nothing to do with the whole draft that we saw here today. 6.3 billion euros is certainly something that will not welcome Croatia, it will be a good wind in the back of Croatia as we wish, as the government of the Republic of Croatia wants, as these ministers who sit here want. We are all talking about how some things in Croatia are not good and certainly there are such things and precisely this national recovery plan and resistance focus is placed on these things. We're saying that our judiciary is bad, a lot of money will end up right in the judiciary, we're talking about green economies, we're talking about everything that Europe is promoting today as a value that will sooner or later wait for us in 10 or 15 years. We now have the opportunity to create conditions and preconditions for this better Croatia. But here the bile is still crumbling about who's going to rock the HDZ more, and that doesn't make sense. Why do you think HDZ is the worst political option there is? HDZ has shown in these five or six years that Croatia can be managed in a way that brings good to all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Corona has caused a disturbance, not in Croatia, it has been made throughout the EU, Croatia is only part of the segment. Do we need better health care? Well, we certainly need him, and that is why we want to strengthen this very health care plan. According to what they say in our neighborhood, everyone is evil for someone's own good. Each of us here in HS has a name and name, so if it's someone, and you want to point your finger at this side and say they're all the same. We're not all the same. If someone has used or tried to use money that doesn't belong to him, so there are institutions in the Republic that deal with it, so let them investigate him, capture him, arrest his wife, children, everyone else, we have absolutely nothing against it. So leave out of something that's an empty story, which is the beating of an empty straw. Croatia needs initiative, Croatia needs action. With this National Recovery and Resistance Plan we get exactly that, we get conditions or create conditions and preconditions for this better Croatia. Therefore, I would like to point out, of course, all the will, wishes and the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Andrej Plenkovic, of all ministers, that with his own conspiracy, the most money comes from the European leaders in Croatia, so we called it that we are the worst in the EU. Let's be the worst every time, but let's get the most every time. I'll be happy and I'll be overjoyed. But we're just people sitting here in HS, what needs to happen with this recovery plan is that all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia feel the benefits of what we've been talking about tonight or all day. Therefore, I do not think the time has come, but this time has been going on for a long time only we do not know how to use it perhaps to put all our energy, every single person sitting here in HS, regardless of whether it is on the left or right of the assembly into this better and more beautiful Croatia. I believe in it, and I believe that all these people who remain here believe in this better, better-looking Croatia, and surely through these measures and other measures that the Government is preparing and which it has achieved in these four years of its mandate, we will reach that goal. So once again, I want to create conditions and preconditions for a better, nicer and more successful Croatia with this National Recovery and Resistance Plan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45573	All right, we've got a breach of our rules of procedure, Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45574	Thank you very much. A colleague, Ivanovic, was injured by an article. 238. because it offends common sense because it speaks of the fact that a transparent and fair Croatia should be cared for by institutions such as the Municipal Court in Osijek or the County Court in Osijek which proved to be a very, very competent institution to judge who was in corrupt activities and who was not. Well, thank God, colleague Ivanovic, here's the thing. the institution's measurement of the judgment. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Here's some institutions doing their job.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45575	You are aware that this was not a violation of the Rules of Procedure but of your replica, this is your third warning taking away your word until the end of the debate... The next violation of the Rules of Procedure, Maja Grba Bujevic. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45576	Dear Vice President of the Parliament. Dear Ministers. In 238, counterpart Hajdukovic unfortunately does not stop. On everything he's been told on this side, he hasn't stopped talking about things that would be best to keep his mouth shut. I'll just remind this gathering that their mayor Lovrić Merzel doesn't know where the process came from, but they have enough of their own, so they don't just have to move the ball to the other side. I am aware that this is not a breach of the Rules of Procedure and I accept your warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45577	Okay, so you're getting a warning because it wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here is the final debate on behalf of the promoter, the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Zdravko Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45578	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President of HS, ladies and gentlemen. Here at the end of a little over 13 hours as far as we've been counting on from the very beginning, I'd say a good part of a single debate with the Prime Minister's opening statement I think you've had the opportunity to hear more than half of the ministers in the government, representing separate parts and segments of this document, a document that you know very well how and in what way it is divided and how approximately the allocation of the projected funds of 6.3 billion is proposed. Everyone agreed more or less on how much I was able to monitor that we were talking about significant amounts, not small funds that could certainly and should be used in the right way. And that's why in this final part I'm not going to refer too much to what you've heard and the more you've discussed, I'm just going to say a few things on that subject, which is that first of all I thank all those colleagues and colleagues in the resolutions who participated and made a significant contribution to this document. This is not simple and, of course, it is not yet complete and yet it will be necessary to do this, and even when it is in some way almost and sent to Brussels it does not mean that the work on the document itself is finished, so it is possible to adapt as such. What was kind of adventurous to this debate even in that morning was something that I think is good to further explain, so we from the government are kind of sending messages all the time, we are appealing, and ultimately we are clearly showing that there would be no good sort of division of any additional in our society, so among other things, something that is mentioned in public between the private and public sectors. I will repeat once again, the purpose of the entire concept of the EU platform is a new generation in which the document or instrument of recovery and resilience is one of the key or perhaps most important rests on the reform potential and reform capacity of individual Member States, i.e. a stimulant for implementing reforms, transformation of the economy and society as a whole, which should be transportable, sub-supervised with a combination of public and private investments. And that's what it's like to taste this kind of platform that I'm going to say for myself this time, I think it's as good as it's designed because on the one hand it takes care of the short-term challenge that we're facing. We are all still very focused on the pandemic, but the short-term effect on the recovery of an economy which should mostly be driven by these very mentioned investments, but also the medium-term view of resilience, because not only us macro-economicists and economists, I would say the general public knows very well, unfortunately, generally we experience it all together on our own skin, and that is the fact that economic and economic cycles are such that they always stand when certain crises come that cannot be assumed when and in which segment or how deep it will go, as no one could foresee this pandemic. However, by comparing this crisis of the covid pandemic and the previous financial and economic crisis which was also global for Croatia exogenous, so outside as such, we see for ourselves by reactions, and also by some state of preparedness of Croatia to talk about different approaches. And that is why it is important to strengthen this concept of resilience that both European economies and individual countries are more resilient or more ready for any possible new crisis that can occur. As for the view in advance, so today we presented to HS as we did to social partners and the Croatian public both a summary of the 80-page summary. Everyone who read it, and I believe the vast majority of HS could actually see that it gives a truly comprehensive view. The whole document will go and enter into the smallest details of individual reforms, individual projects and it is very possible that the whole document will reach the level of a thousand pages. However, I would say that the less important amount, the number of pages, is much more important content and more important, and even more important implementation of this same document. So we plan it as it says in the act itself, that is, the rules adopted at the level of the leaders of the Member States, so the European Council, where it says as a rule that Member States should officially deliver their recovery and resilience plans by the end of April 30th of this year. We adopt this document at the meeting of the Government on 29 April, 29 April, I can tell you that even between today and that date, we will continue to have intensive communication, so, let's say, among other things and tomorrow, we will continue to communicate at a high level with our colleagues from the European Commission precisely because it is key in some way and an additional challenge, but also a key message, which is that, in these circumstances, the document is now drawn up in a way that will tomorrow get the green light and will be as fast and as possible implementation and absorption. Within two months of the official delivery of these plans, the Commission should assess the relevance, effectiveness and coherence of the plans on the basis of the list of criteria, followed by the European Council, which should also approve the assessment of recovery plans and resilience on the basis of the Commission proposal within four weeks. So we're already adding up for weeks and months and we're, of course, entering the other half of this year. What is important for Croatia as well as for other member states, that, after the adoption of this document itself, we will have at our disposal an advance of 13% of the total envelope, in translation it is about 800m euros something more than 6.1 billion kunas translated, which should be in the second half of this year in the state budget, as well as for the overall programme. It's not money to patch up any holes in the public sector, the private sector, what we like to call helicopter money or something rather than for a similar or the same purpose as the whole document. After that, the release of funds under the mechanism is provided for by a dynamic of twice a year, depending on whether Member States have sufficiently achieved relevant key stages and target values set out in recovery and resilience plans. This is what this instrument distinguishes from, I would say, well-known, well-known and well-known procedures and understanding of the Euro Funds system within the multi-annual financial framework. Just finished one and started a new one with which Croatia also, you heard today Minister Tramišak, not a small amount of funds exists and is available for the next seven years. We've adopted these rules more or less well, the bargaining rate of over 115%, the rate of payment and certification which has also grown significantly over the past years is actually the best indicator and proof. Here, in this particular example, we are actually talking from the perspective of individual member states, and so Croatia is even more of a quality way of withdrawing. However, a very clear reform, a project that supports it closely linked if it is not there, has no money absorption either. So I repeat once again, as important as the document is as big or small, it's more important that it gets the green light and most important than everything to be implemented, or that the absorption of the funds starts as soon as possible. The deadline for spending, the period of validity of this document is 2026, to assume that no European government in the meantime will have parliamentary elections, it is too long for six years or five and a half years. In any event, all target values for the implementation of reforms and investments must be completed by 31 August 2016 and the last payments from the mechanism shall be due by the end of 2026. And I think we need to be very clear here and clear with that framework. Personally, I think that the framework and the time horizon of Croatia are in favour because the additional emphasis is precisely on the withdrawal of funds greater in the first years of use. Here I thank everyone once again for the debate on behalf of the entire government, we are all colleagues here and Beroš and Aladrović have also lasted until these late hours, I am a little longer clear to pass midnight. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-04-14-0.u45579	Thank you, Minister and Vice-President and the ministers who are with us here, Aladrovic and Beros. With this, we've exhausted the debate, I'm closing the debate, we'll vote when the conditions are met. We continue at 9.30 in the morning with the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law implementing EU Regulation 2016/1011 on indices used as benchmarks, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 91. Good night, everybody. SESSION INTERNED AT 00:05 AM
