ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u57779	We're going to the 10th debate of Representatives' Club Most esteemed colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u57780	The State Statistics Office produced results, its estimates compared to 2011. – 2019 end of 2020 where 5% of Croatia, Croatian citizens are lower in the Republic of Croatia in those 10 years or 237,000 people, 237,000 people. The only increase is rapid and is very high in the City of Zagreb. What's he saying? That centralization and today's structure in the county is not acceptable because there is no larger centralisation than the county. I'm just looking at the comparison of my Dalmatian burn since the county was 100,000 people gone. Here I am looking at the property province of 29.739 was in 2011, now at the institution 25.936 slightly less than 4,000 or almost 15%. Almost 15% is less property in the last 10 years. I'm looking at the Cetina landscape, I'm looking at Knin, which is even more rapid, I'm looking at Drnish, I'm looking at all of Zagora, it doesn't exist. I'm looking at Slavonia, wiped out 23,000 inhabitants. More almost as much as Dubrovnik-Neretva County and Zadar County residents. There have been fewer Croats in the last 10 years. These are policies that are not decentralisation but centralization of power within the county system. And believe me, this kind of structure is the worst thing that could have happened. This is a demographic breakdown of the Republic of Croatia. This is a question of the survival of the people in this area. Many people fell for this country, they were as solid as oak, they gave their lives, and in the last 10 years it has moved more than under all the occupiers who have passed from the time of the Turks to the last Homeland War. I come from an empty part of Croatia, watch Vrlika 23% of the population less, watch Croatians 22% less, watch Trilj 10% less, watch Island 6% and Sinj 2%. From the pie valley of Cetina, from the Knin, the imothic end of our pie fields, our mountains are empty. For what? Because you give continued money in counties that are centralized, we don't have well-organised healthcare, we don't have education, we don't have the opportunity to have kindergartens and this centralization of power in the counties is exclusively to remain the political option of the authorities in Split-Dalmatia, Sibenik-Kninska, Dubrovnik and in all counties and SDP won't object because it manages certain counties. But believe me, there's no worse structure than this. From Krka to Neretva to 2011 100,000 people were less than '93. Ever since the county was founded. Now we're going to add another 30 grand here, only in Dalmatinska Zagora has evicted one county. Here, something like Dubrovnik-Neretva. It's the centralization of power. Decentralize the funds according to, financially towards the border areas otherwise if we don't break out, the people won't forget this moment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u57835	We're going to the sixth debate, and now it's time for the esteemed colleague of Urša Raukar-Gamulin on behalf of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u57836	I thank Mr. President of the Parliament. So, in early September of this year, Mr Rajko Grlic wrote to the minister of culture a public letter, an appeal for the salvation of Croatian film heritage. He didn't get an answer until I talked about it after two weeks here at HS. The Minister's reply arrived that afternoon, but not as a public response by avoiding public dialogue. This is what we learn from the second public letter Mr Grlic sent to the minister, obviously dissatisfied with her private response. It's been more than a month, and it's not answering that other public letter, and it's still missing. Grlic writes, with all the impressive figures prepared by the Croatian State Archives, the painful truth is, and that is why I wrote to you, that in the last 4 years of your term, when you put the preservation of audiovisual heritage as your priority only eight, I repeat, 8 feature films. It's a devastating fact and cultural shame that no figures can cover up. Indeed, it is a terrible fact that Croatian classical feature films are left to an incredible and irreparable decline because of factual negligentness and neglect. Can you imagine Marulic's Judith disappearing? The poetry of Tina Uevich? The plays of the Miroslav Krleža? Pictures of Bukovec, Stancic, Kraljevica? To disappear, to never, ever read or listen to or watch them again. It would be terrible and unbearable, it would be cultural, an unimaginable tragedy of the disappearance of Croatian cultural history. Then why does the Ministry of Culture condemn 200 Croatian feature films on the cellolide track to such decay and disappearance? Ante Babaja, Zvonimir Berković, Relja Basic, Ana Karić, Fabian Šovagović, Krešo Golik, Krsto Papić, many others are Ujević, Marulić, Krleža, Bukovac, Stančić, Kraljević. And we must, we simply must do everything to preserve their works for future generations. Cinematographic works are the guardians of images of our common memory. Their salvation and restoration is an important issue of culture, but much wider than culture itself. The Greek is repeating the appeal, so once again I ask you to ask the government to spare the necessary money. He, as you know, is not large and is given the Croatian State Archives the task of restoring these films as soon as possible, as all civilized countries that care about their culture do. I believe, and I know that the entire film community and the cultural public are joining this appeal and I pray that the budget for the following year will inevitably provide for the means to save Croatian film. I repeat, it's not a great deal of money, it's only 10% of the funds provided for the reconstruction of the Ban Courts. This is enough to save all Croatian feature classic films made by 2000. Once again, I stress that the restoration of their films has ended both Northern Macedonia and R. Albania, Serbia and Slovenia, too, and I do not have to talk about their cultural and film heritage, about European countries, of course. It's just that Croatia doesn't. The shame should be interrupted, the appeal of Rajko Grlic and the entire cultural public must be listened to and left to save Croatian feature classic films and the entire film heritage as a priority of the Ministry of Culture in the following year, if we want to consider ourselves a civilized European state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u57926	Let's move on, eighth in a row, the HDZ Representatives' Club, respected counterpart Zdravka Busic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u57927	... to refer to the achievement of the i.e. meeting one of the long-term foreign policy priorities of the Government of the Republic of Croatia which will contribute to improving business opportunities with one of the United States' world powers. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] By entering Croatia into a visa exemption programme i.e. So-called Visa Waver Program allows Croatian citizens to enter the United States without visas which brings US and Croatian citizens closer together. The entry into a circle of 39 countries in the world with a visa-free regime with the United States will create preconditions for strengthening co-operation, i.e. The business of Croatian companies that already have serious, serious activities and work in the country will be facilitated. It should certainly be borne in mind by a number of Croatian emigrants who will, in this way, be connected to the homeland, who will facilitate their family trips from Croatia to the United States and vice versa. In this way we will also intensify our care for our emigrants in joint projects and concrete activities. We are grateful to the US administration as well as representatives of the US Embassy in the Republic of Croatia who have worked for years on the programme and on visa waivers with the United States in cooperation with the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, the Ministry of Interior and other state administrations. In order for a state to participate in the Visa Waver Programme, it must meet the requirements concerning the fight against terrorism, law enforcement, document security and the management of its borders. A reminder of entering the visa-free regime was needed except for the above factors and an important prerequisite, which is to achieve the threshold of the denied visa requirements below 3% of what Croatia has achieved. Thus, with the remaining four EU members Bulgaria, Cyprus and Romania, the only one was able to achieve the goal. By entering that programme, it is a step forward in the relations between the Republic of Croatia and the United States, both politically and economically, more contacts, more travel, more investment and will lead to the growth of trade between the Republic of Croatia and the United States, and will certainly contribute to the increase of security and stronger cooperation by looking globally and bringing our scientific and business communities closer together. Croatia's Visa Weaver Programme was one of the foreign policy priorities because strengthening political and economic co-operation with the US is one of the strategic interests of the Republic of Croatia. For Croatia, this means that it is turning to the global market even stronger, so it creates preconditions for more serious economic progress, and politically that Croatia is no longer "the rest of the world" but is recognised as a serious and responsible partner in the heart of Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u57987	Second debate, respected counterpart Daniel Spajic, on behalf of the Association, representing the Homeland Movement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u57988	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues. During the crown we cut our free time off from various activities, and there is a huge increase in Internet traffic says that we enjoyed watching streaming services and numerous sports events from which I will single out UFC as one of the few sports organisations that organized successful evens despite the measures. MMA, i.e. a free fight in Croatia, has a great tradition from the late Branko Cikatic, who twice wore smaller gloves to an absolute legend, one of Croatia's most popular athletes and our former parliamentary counterpart Mirko Filipović CRO cop. There are also the most successful UFC champion in the difficult category of our Stipe Miocic and numerous champions in various celebrated organizations from Poland where we have Soldier, Račić, etc. I could list it like this indefinitely, but the point is clear, the free fight has a great tradition in Croats, and it's pretty much seen, so the recent FNC event in Sibenik looked at over half a million people live. So we also have tradition and global success and popularity and promotion of Croatia. But what we don't have is a free fight as a sport. .../incomprehensible/... introduced to the 33rd Olympic games of the ancient dog 648 years before Christ, while in our absence of categorization, these top-notch athletes during the crown were not only able to compete but could not even train. I remind you this is one of the few sports that attracts foreign investment in Croatia's American Top Team is just one example. Fighters train, fight in amateur and professional competitions, literally leave sweat and blood in the octagon in the fastest growing sport in the world, and we have no minimum sports opportunities. That is why I will support the initiative and sign a petition in which I hope a number of fellow Members from the assembly will participate as well as from the world of sports and public life because this is a matter beyond mere politics. It's time to remove the Stigm from one of our most popular sports and move it from the gray zone where it belongs, to the top sport. I thank you and I appeal to you when this petition comes to support this and to give these people normal training, to function as other athletes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u58034	We are now moving to the 7th debate on behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club esteemed colleague Dragana Jeckov, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u58035	Dear President of HS, colleagues and colleagues. Every year in the 10th month. The City Council of Vukovar is considering achieving a degree of understanding of solidarity, tolerance and dialogue among the citizens of Vukovar and deciding on the possibility or need to extend the rights of the Serbian community to new rights from the catalogue of legal rights, and for several years it has satisfied the form and practically from year to year, by copy-pass, the conclusion that the degree of mutual tolerance of the Croatian people and members of the Serb national minority has not progressed and that the conditions for extending the rights of members of the Serb community have not been created. This year's justification sounds pretty bad, and it says we should wait for the results of a census that will give precise information on how many Serbs in Vukovar live, and then we'll be smarter and decide again and here, such an explanation should satisfy the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. The allegations of waiting for new census results would not be disputed if at the same time it was not said that the 2011 results were faked by almost 20%, which, of course, you'll agree, is ridiculous. Anyone who follows political developments in Croatia is not really surprised by this conclusion because it is clear to everyone as long as this current government is running the city will not be met with the conditions for Serbs to be extended rights because collective guilt is attributed to those born in '97. and in 2007 and 2017, the fight against Serbs and the representation of Serbs as on-call culprits and everything bad is the basis of politics in Vukovar, despite the fact that these rights are guaranteed by the positive regulations of the Republic of Croatia, but the numerous international documents ratified by the Republic of Croatia which have made them an integral part of our legal system and are within the legal force above the law of the Republic of Croatia. These facts are not of interest to city leaders who continue to stigmatise my people and make a measure of their own patriotism out of relation to Serbs in order to be recognized as the only honest patriots because they are always and exclusively against everything that has omens of Serbian. Serbs are otherwise a threat and a threat to everything that happens in the town of Vukovar except when local elections come and good and similar Serbs are put on the list, elect the current council, and then these same Serbs imagine there are no preconditions to extend the rights of the Serb community to the Republic and Vukovar, respectively. At least tragic. And it's not just cyrillic plates that individuals try to show and banalize. The rights that the Serbian community fail to achieve are much broader and concern both proportionate representations and rights to education and the registration of minority schools and housing, but who cares. My colleagues and colleagues, I don't complain to you in this place because it would be pointless especially because the city government has enough hands to declare that the country is a flat plate, not one such conclusion. I'm much more concerned about one other thing, which is that more hope and a far better social climate was '97. The year President Tudjman came, so-called. A peace train waiting for him, imagine the representatives of the Serbs and imagine those of the SDSS. The fourth century has passed, and we haven't moved from the dead spot yet we've gone back a few steps. I point out that the Serb community in Vukovar expected this conclusion, but also that it is against it because it does not contribute to international relations, but these relations are not mended, and the city government is doing nothing to improve them because it makes it easier for them to maintain tensions and do nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u58036	We've got two injuries to the Rules of Procedure. He's his first colleague, Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u58037	Thank you very much, President. counterpart Jeckov injured Rules of Procedure Article 238, where in an unprecedented way he insulted people of the Serb national minority who do not think they are like Serbs. Well, the lady must know she's part of the parliamentary majority and she's making decisions, and the people of the Serb national minority where I come from are extremely honest, good, many have participated in the Homeland War. and therefore don't insult the people of the Serb national minority anymore. [[Intruder: Thank you, colleague Bulj.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u58038	Thank you very much. You know it wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. The breach of the Rules of Procedure is an instrument that points to a violation of the procedure of the Assembly, and we are not entering the content. So, if you disagree with that, that's understandable, but it's also not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so I have to give you a heads-up. Comrade Pavlich, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u58039	Dear President, colleague Dragana Jeckov has injured Article 238. The Rules of Procedure, where it has brought forth a series of lies to the current city authority and the work of the city government in the city of Vukovar. Namely, this very city government has given tens and tens of millions of kunas to all craftsmen, entrepreneurs no matter what nationality they are, and has the right to call on incorrect data of the censuses, for example, in primary schools you only have 19% of children by teaching in Serbian, and in kindergartens only 24%... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u58040	Thank you very much, dear colleague Pavlichek. Same explanation for the warning you're getting. We move on to the fourth debate, on behalf of the Center and GLAS Representatives Club, will speak to a respected colleague, Anka Mrak Taritas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u58111	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the agenda of the assembly is as each year a defence report for the previous year. The government sent the same report to the assembly on August 19th, now we're somewhere at the end of October and we haven't discussed it. But that report is structured like any government report. Everything's fine and it's doing the best possible. The army is modernized, ships, helicopters, armored vehicles and, of course, fighter planes. It's about education, skills development, working with others, adapting to NATO, participating in missions. It's all right, and I have no reason to doubt the accuracy of that data. But still, when I look outside towards our armed forces, there's something missing. We don't really know what the situation really is in the field, what reality it is when the carefully written reports with selected information and data, what the state of the spirit of the members of the armed forces are, does anyone really care about their conditions during this time of stress, psychosis and uncertainty, what state all this technique is in. We don't really know these answers, and lately, every little bit of news comes out that worries us and that's why we all have to ask ourselves a question together and ask exactly what we're talking about. One such news was suicides in the military. Official answers are always the same, there are psychologists and psychological services in the Armed Forces that are always available, psychological testing is required for admission to the service, medical examination is mandatory every 3 years. And that's all right. But what is beneath the surface of this official and statistical data? Let's be perfectly clear. Being a soldier is an extremely difficult job. It requires excellent physical and mental preparation, availability 24 hours a day, on the other hand, all these people are just people who have their own concerns, problems, family and obligations. At this time of increased stress we live in, it has its consequences. The question that is also asked, are we at all able, given the small interest in a military career, to fill the ranks of people who are indeed at the level of demand for such a life and whether they can deal with it? There is no answer to that question in any report, and the psychological and physical preparation is a key matter for the country's defence system. An interesting answer to the question of suicides given by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Defence Zdravko Jakop, who said suicides are related to a difficult situation or related to certain addictions, and with this statement of addiction, we come up with another story from the OSRH that has caught the public's attention. It's about drug incidents, not anywhere, but the most elite HV unit, the Special Forces Command. In 2.5 months, as many as five members of that unit were positive for drugs and the most expensive cocaine. It is a worrying figure since it is a unit with a total of 280 members. Consuming or even addiction to cocaine is a significant security risk for our army. It affects mental and physical equipment, but it also paves the way for the need to obtain larger amounts of drugs or money that significantly exceed the normal incomes of military members, and that is the way to possible criminal behavior and weakness that endangers the very security of the defence system. The latest press release is a USKOK investigation of a military helicopter remont. There's a suspicion of guessing, rewriting, overpaid work, so, in one word, of classical corruption. THE rash of this application should be investigated to the full, and then we will be able to bring the final judgment. But what remains is a bitter taste, we invest big money in the purchase of military planes, and the question we don't have an answer to is how things work in the base, in the field, in the military, and without it, without motivated by both spirit and body of healthy soldiers and soldiers, no planes will be of any use to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u58167	We are going to the 5th debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Sovereigns esteemed colleague Hrvoje Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u58168	The Honorable president of HS, respected colleagues and colleagues. Politicians, most politicians wear suits, men, women dress differently, but there is a time when politicians, at least according to us Croatian sovereigns, should replace themselves with different clothes. Now's the time. Now it's time to say that we are with our people, that we are not politicians, but we are activists. What I believe, you all know, these days on the streets of all major Croatian cities thousands and thousands of activists, volunteers, people who love their homeland extremely, collect signatures to protect the Croatian Kuna. To protect the official currency. But what is even more important than the protection of the Kuna itself is the will of the people. For those who did not understand or did not listen, this signing is to enable a referendum to allow a referendum on the official currency. So we don't prejudge anything, if tomorrow the people in the referendum say it's for the euro, there will be a euro, but I don't see what the problem is and those who are for the euro, to agree with the fact that the people on key issues must decide. Therefore, since the 1st stand for collecting signatures is far from HS, even in Ban Jelačić Square, 200 m away, we have decided today, we Croatian sovereigns, to allow our colleagues and colleagues in HS to vote with their signature in this booklet, their signature to take place a referendum on the change of official currency. I invite you all, no matter what part of the political spectrum you're in, whether you're a center, whether you're left, whether you're right, whether you're a worldview, to realize that you're chosen by the people here, too, and that's the will of the people that we must cherish, and I invite you to today, at 11 o'clock by the Garden Tablet in HS, by signing the referendum. I will repeat, dear colleagues and colleagues, today at 11 o'clock by the Baška plate, here in HS, I invite you by your signature to make the referendum possible. Whatever party uniform you're wearing, whatever part of the political spectrum you're in. This way I will already thank some colleagues and colleagues who have signed, specifically, counterparts Miletic, colleagues from Grmoj, here, Europarliamentary Mr Sincic, who have already supported this initiative with their own signature. I will repeat once again for those who have not heard, today at 11 o'clock by the Baška plate, here, I expect all of them, all of them, here, and my colleague Bulj, to tell me, shows me, I don't know, that, then thank him too, so today at 11 o'clock next to the Baška plate I call on colleagues and fellow Croatian representatives to allow democracy, allowing the will of the people to happen. Thank you very much. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u58291	We will now move to the 9th debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, respected colleague Sabina Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u58292	Thank you, Mr. President HS. In Croatia today, 4400 newly infected cases of covid are even 1,000 more than yesterday, as many as 2720 more than last week. Yesterday's so-called day. He took 30 lives on a black Monday. At vaccination points, there are endless rows, some of them waiting in line for two, three hours, each third tested positive, the split is below all expectations and plans of the government of the Republic of Croatia. We are on the list of countries that are identified as high-risk to travel, and the state, the government, is determined to announce that from now on, intensively and intensibly control the wearing of masks amongst the population in closed spaces. The village is burning, but the grandmother is combing. But not only would everything remain on that government's determination to deal with masks must this government cause as little chaos as so far and remain consistent in its inconsistency, inorganization, indifference and contradiction. In the creation of uncertainty and chaos are experts. Now schools have come in turn, so top statesman and chief epidemiologist Andrej Plenkovic decided to jump in with black numbers in a way to leave the children at home, close schools for two days and transfer all classes to the on-line model. This applies to decisions, orders within 48 hours without reason why, without consulting local headquarters, school principals and employees who know very well that the epidemiological situation is not the same and that it is insane to close those schools where there are no infected or only few infected, or in which there is simply a course that can be organised in this combined model for those classes where there are a number of infected on-line and for those where there is no regular live teaching. So, eventually, the directors have been working with epidemiologists until now. I will remind you, and in September, the epidemiologists warned that schools are the larger proportion of newly infected. He is also aware of this and Minister Fuchs, who had assured us by yesterday that there were no grounds for school closure, but High Epidemiologist Plenkovic decided and ordered his. But he did not answer the question of how long these measures would last, he did not answer the question on why such a decision was made, he did not answer the question why schools are closed, cafes, restaurants, malls, Masses... other public gatherings remain. He did not even answer the question of how he felt that parents were reorganizing themselves and that in fact those two days could stay with their children at home, some of them may not have a year. He did not say whether this measure would continue if this measure would follow some compensation measures to work from home next week. What will such a decision depend on? Will schools not work for just two days or will it continue? We still don't know what measures are being taken whether it's based on the number of newly infected, is that based on the number of newly hospitalized, is that based on the number of those who ended up on the respirator, is that based on the number of those who died? We don't have any answers to this question, except that we've decided in fact that he's teaching a line is the only measure to prevent the spread of the virus. I would like this Government of the Republic of Croatia to work on something that has not worked on in the past year, which is mental health of children, to help children learn. So a lot of research shows that children suffer from various diseases, as they suffer from anxiety, from depression, how they have large gaps in knowledge, how they have learning difficulties none of these problems has been brought to the attention of Prime Minister Plenkovic to deal with together with Minister Fuchs these crucial problems of the education system which will have much greater and much more far-reaching consequences, not only of the education system but also of the public health picture of Croatia in the coming period. But that's why when you have to fight the covid and you have to prevent infection or spread the virus, that's where the only solution is to control masks and close schools, which is too much of this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u58316	We are now going to the third debate, dear colleague Darko Klasic on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSLS and Reformists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u58317	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, good morning, everyone first. In the 1990s, the Croatian Parliament made a decision to introduce a semi-presidential system in order to facilitate the defence of the country in the war between the Republic of Croatia because of the simpler functioning of these times, which has contributed both to the easier and effective defence of the country. After Croatia was released, the system was abolished because there was no need for it anymore. And the government comes out of parliament and politically responds, which means that the government must trust the majority in parliament. Let us note that the formation of European states is also dominated by the parliamentary system while it is semi-presidentially less represented. By amending the Croatian Constitution since 9 November 2000, the Republic of Croatia has become a parliamentary republic since the half-presidential presidency, and one of the initiators of these changes, my party colleague Ivo Škrabalo, certainly could not have assumed that this significant step towards democracy in Croatia would become a stumbling block at the level of the state. It was seen during the last campaign that individual candidates for presidents wanted to return Croatia to the semi-presidential system since they were not satisfied with the powers that the president has in today's parliamentary system. In recent days, we have just witnessed this conflict at Pantovčak – Banski dvori, which after the President of the Supreme Court who somehow resolved last week, is even more bizarre in a series of unnecessarily created which we have witnessed for the past year. On the one hand, it is a bit incomprehensible to the defence minister's decision not to extend his mandate to the Honorable Protective Battle for 2.5 months, however, an even more incomprehensible reaction by the President of the Republic of Zoran Milanovic, which thus threatens to block any other staff decisions that require the co-signation of him and the diameter of Andrej Plenkovic. The government's blockade, the confusion in terms of who and when commanding the Croatian Army, by creating a crisis in creating foreign policies where the circus is even bigger and by putting the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia in an uninvited position of political commitment I find unacceptable. This drama has to stop. The appointment block must not be, the Croatian Army and the foreign policy of the Republic of Croatia are not political toys and the state must operate on the basis of the agreement and consent of the highest state bodies. Especially in areas where there is co-operation. If this is not possible, it is necessary to simplify the whole process urgently and move towards a change in the regulatory framework in order to prevent possible crises in the functioning of the state and blockade of institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u58338	And we're going to the last debate, it's a respected colleague, Silvano Hrelja, on behalf of the Club of HNS, HSU and independent representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u58339	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, I have been thinking for a long time about how I might explain to citizens the functioning of pension insurance, not to bother with so many tables, calculations and formulas. It's almost impossible to bypass them, but I'm going to try to expose the essence of retirement insurance with minimal use of statistics. I will talk about the first pillar of solidarity among generations because it is the source of many delusions, unrealistic desires to use for other purposes as well as attempts to set up an orderly. In pension insurance, the generations that work single out contributions that are immediately paid out of the budget for generations that are retired, which, while they were doing so themselves, did the same thing. Of course, pension insurance was, there was an institution of wealth when four workers worked for 1 pensioner. Contributors, gross salary workers do not harm, do not have their account as in the second pillar, but each month's contributions build their pension rights which will materialise in the form of payments at the time when they exercise the right to retire under the law. In this year, the Government of the Republic of Croatia paid among other things to my boost Covid supplement for all pensioners with total pension income from one or more sources with residence in Croatia under 4,000 kuna. This sent a clear message that 4,000 kuna pensions and more for the conditions of the Republic of Croatia are decent pensions. The minimum wage is 3,400 kuna. Now let's see how to get that pension through elementary mathematical operations. For this amount of pension, the insurance company had to pay a million kuna contributions in its working century, re-valorised dinars, Croatian dinars and kunas. The amount is then divided by the estimated time of life, 20 years and 11 months or 251 months of payment according to the actuarial tables and the amount of 3.984 kuna is obtained, i.e. approximately 4,000 kuna. This mathematics ensures the functioning of pension insurance regardless of what a person will leave this world sooner, which one will get sick and end up in a disability pension or experience a 100th birthday. If we transpose all of this into our everyday life, we come to the next conclusion. In order for a citizen to obtain a present pension right, he would have to have a gross salary of 10,500 kuna, i.e. every month to pay 2,100 kuna of contributions for the next 40 years increased for inflation. Now let's see how and if users of minimum wages could make 4,000 kuna pensions. They pay 850 kuna a month and should pay this amount exactly 98 years in order to achieve a total, total payment of one million kuna. Only this round amount of payment would ultimately result in a pension of 4,000 kuna. According to this simulation for 40 years of contributions they are paying, they would pay 408,000 kuna and that would only be enough for 1,625 kuna pensions. Under the Pension Insurance Act, they will be protected by a pension of 2.861 kuna, so by a pension that is almost 43% higher than the amount they would be entitled to incur. On the basis of all the premises set, I draw a key conclusion. The low pensions are not responsible for the harmonisation formula, in fact it is one of the best in Europe, nor the time periods of coordination. The answer to the problem of low pensions in Croatia is in low wages, small contributions and a large evaluation of contributions as well as in the incomes of workers without tax and contribution payments. As a result, we have the annual growth of the lowest pensions, and in the future, as many as 2/3 of the employees will end up in the lowest pensions and the current 232,000 lowest plus 40,000 that we pay abroad will continuously increase. Therefore, for the protection of pensioners, the institution of the lowest pension due to the uncovered contribution should ensure 2 billion kuna per year from other revenue budgets. I must finally state that a long-term payment of significant contributions gives a solid pension and no one has denied it. In this vital provider of income in old age, disease and infirmity something is possible change in the present, certainly in the future [[Intruder: Thank you.]] But we can't change the past, and a lot of people are looking for it. [[Intruder: Thank you colleague Hrelja.]] I apologize for the little overrun. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u58340	Please. Okay. So it's 10.23, let's give it a break by 10.35. So we start at 10.35. It's 10:00.23. Good morning, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. As every time at the beginning of the session, we will start with free speeches or presentations, and then at 10:30 we will start with the Annual Report of the Government of the Republic of Croatia unless there are so many clubs and we will be a few minutes after that, but the plan is at 10:30. I now invite my first colleague, Renato Sablar Dračevac, to address us on behalf of the Social Democrats Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u58362	Your Honor. My colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament. Can we trust the National Headquarters? Trust is a fundamental relationship between people and creates a reliable uniform relationship equal to all. I don't trust the National Command anymore if we don't trust that group of people we can't respect their decisions and recommendations. How did we lose trust? At the beginning of the pandemic it is said that masks do not help, and when none of us could move normally, go to school, the "After the Cross" Process is allowed on Hvar, and we know exactly who is from Hvar. In this past period since the outbreak was declared on 25 February 2012, unfortunately we can list a number of illogicalities and conveniences to individuals and groups. What decisions do people in whose hands our lives are made? One rule applies to our life within the country, so after getting over the covid immunity for coming to the hospital is 365 days, and the other rules apply on the EU covid certificate plan, or if you go to a concert or to a match confirmation will only be worth 180 days. There is no more self-insulation in other EU countries, if you are sick, if you have had contact with the sick then every other day you go to the test and you work normally. As long as the rules are not equal and even for all people they will not believe you, and at a time when we are seriously slapped by the fourth wave of the pandemic, unfortunately no official results have been released today for 24 hours, but we read from the newspaper that there are 4400 new cases infected by SARS covid the number of active cases in the Republic of Croatia was 17940, today we can expect 19,000. Yesterday, 1170 patients were hospitalized, including 139 patients on the respirator. In the last 48 hours 30 plus 30 covid patients have died. 14 days ago, counterpart Davorko Vidovic said at a meeting of the Health Committee, every week we lose one smaller bus of people, now we lose one bus of people on a two-day basis. Mortality in the Republic of Croatia is worrying, yesterday and the day before yesterday we lost 60 people. The total mortality in the Republic of Croatia from the start of the epidemic to 17.10 is 2176.2 per million population. An alarming 14-day cumulative mortality rate is 21.10.2010. The European average is 23.64, and Croatian 54.7 that was while we were dying 20 people and less daily. So our average is twice the European average. We have only four countries in Latvia, Lithuania, Bulgaria and Romania, and the cumulatively confirmed death of covids per million inhabitants in the period since the pandemic lasts because of this great wave of mortality raises us and on that scale, we are now eight by the death to 17.10. We urgently need to find the reasons for all this mortality. There is a serious gap between the number of tested, the number of positive, the number of hospitalized, the number of people on the respirator and the number of deaths. They're burning these last two categories. Is there a clear protocol that we care about the patients who are on home treatment? Are the patients coming to the hospital in due time? Due to this great mortality and extreme irresponsibility, we seek the resignation of the headquarters and the appointment of serious experts who, by their expertise and consistency, would create confidence through citizens, and thus, better separation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66600	[[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 10:37 A.M.]] It is: - Annual Report of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article. The 128th Rules of Procedure will be presented orally by the Prime Minister's annual report. I welcome the president of the government and the ministers who are accompanied by him and the vice presidents mostly. I would like to remind you that the government president's speech in the report may last for 60 minutes, no replicas to the Prime Minister's speech. Only representatives clubs can participate in the debate, the representative of the club can speak for a maximum of 20 minutes. Following the discussion, the Prime Minister submits a final statement that may last for a maximum period of 20 minutes and does not have any replicas in the debate. Before I give my word to the Prime Minister, I can see that we have requests for a break, the first is my colleague Pavlichek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66601	The Honorable President of HS. The Honorable President of the Croatian Government. Here we are looking for a 10 minute break on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club to further consult on this report, but to mention once again that Croatia has been a full member of the EU for eight years and unfortunately all economic indicators say that we are still on the ground. So, according to GDP, we are the last residents, so our share of the debt is more than 90% almost in GDP, so at the moment, some 65% of the EU's average development. All these indicators say Croatia is not ready to enter the Eurozone and that Croatia will have an even worse standard by entering the Eurozone. So here you are President of the Croatian Government, I invite you today to single out one minute at 11 o'clock or after your presentation and sign this initiative for the protection of the Croatian Kuna. I believe you disagree with us on when to introduce the Croatian Kuna but I am convinced, i.e. when the euro is to be introduced, but I am convinced that you agree that the Croatian people should decide on it. In fact, currencies have often changed in these areas from Austria-Hungarian, Kingdom of Yugoslavia, NDH, communist Yugoslavia and the modern Croatian state, never before has the people asked themselves anything about it. We live in a democratic state, you are the head of the Croatian government chosen by Croatian citizens, Croatian people and I believe you have no objection to Croatian people deciding whether to change national currency or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66602	The apartment is approved. Comrade Petrov, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66603	Your Honor. I would like to request a break on behalf of the Mosto Club in order to draw further attention to the gravity of the situation in Croatia with this report. I am aware that, at some point, the Prime Minister will come here for a pay phone and say that in Croatia most of it or almost everything is pink. It may seem that way from his point of view, but this viewer is pretty far from most people in Croatia. Most people in Croatia pay less than the minimum cost of living calculated 10 years ago, minimum 10 years ago. Most people in Croatia today pay less than the minimum consumer basket today. Most people in Croatia today need to be Professor Balthazar to survive the month and educate their children. And this is official data that the DZS, which unions and you can find them publicly. Most people in Croatia today feel injustice in society because they fought for the country their children need to leave because they don't have the same opportunities as others, and about the monster of corruption that I don't even talk about. And that's why I would ask the Prime Minister to talk about the truth today when he comes to the pay phone because it's the only thing that can make it possible for everyone in Croatia to have a future, not just some. I want to see from all of us, and also the Prime Minister to fight for the future of the people, not for his own future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66604	The apartment is approved. Now it's time for my colleague, Daus. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66605	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On behalf of the IDS Club, I am looking for a 10 minute break to further consult, but also to warn of one topic that has emerged in recent days in public, and these are the announced amendments and additions to the Health Protection Act that was brought here in the assembly three years ago with one of the basic objectives of decentralisation of the health system, and in this draft, the working group is going towards additional centralised. So perhaps only plastically on one example to show the difference between the centralized and decentralised health care system of the Institute of Emergency Medicine of the Istrian County. The emergency medicine until about ten years ago was on the margin of actually health care then there will be 1.11. Now 10 years that this institution was founded, then the state gave seven sanity, not medical, sanity vehicles never after any other vehicle or dedicated means of equipment, uniforms, money for the material rights of workers, goddesses, regressions, jubilee awards. For the past 10 years, when the Istria County Emergency has 28 ambulances of which eight of the best quality with a crash test that gives maximum safety to the patient and staff, all equipment is top-of-the-line, their patient gets everything they need, people have international educations. They paid for it themselves with the help of the Istrian County, Istrian municipalities and cities without the help of the state. Payment funds HZZO covers only 75%, all other costs of equipment and vehicles are exclusively in the local community and as many as 28.7% of workers have employees in so-called ". A standard without which I can't function because it's too small an emergency medical network. In the Institute of Emergency Medicine of the Istrian County, the patient today has a 25% chance of being revived, in the rest of the Republic of Croatia, the recovery rate is below 10%, and that you only have an example 10 years ago of resuscitation rate was 2.2%. So, taught by experience so far, we're afraid some of the government will be. Mother, and Istri again a stepmother. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66606	The apartment is approved. Here you go, fellow Mlinarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66607	Thank you, Mr. President. I am looking for a break and the name of the Homeland Movement for 10 minutes to consult, and Mr Plenkovic also has time and I hope that in his hourly presentation he will say about the topic that has been suffering mothers who are looking for their children for 30 years, that he will say what he talked to Mr. Vukic in Slovenia two weeks ago. Which he arranged to find the missing, missing. I think it's a theme for mothers looking for their number one children. I know he's going to be talking about the mycil billion that have been withdrawn from the EU, but believe me, for a mother who's been looking for her son for 30 years, that's her side topic. I would like to declare what is going on with campers, lawsuits against Serbia, especially after the verdict of Serbian intelligence officers Sinatrovic and this summer what has been decided, what Croatia will do for Croatian campers more than 30 people, 30,000 people and Croatian defenders who fought for this country today so that he can speak this report here. What he's done by what's for war damage, which is for cultural treasure. We see how far it has not yet been returned to the Vukovar Museum, which has been stolen, robbed by the Serbian Montenegrin aggressor from JNA to tell us in that report, in those 60 minutes to find at least 10 minutes for a 30-year-old topic, and to this day it is not solved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66608	The apartment is approved. We're going to request five, colleague Ursha Raukar Gamulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66609	Thank you, Mr. President. I am looking for a 10-minute break on behalf of the Green-Left bloc Club in order to strongly appeal to the government and to all the ruling structures because of two enormous problems in Croatia, which is a pandemic and a post-traumatic reconstruction. We all witness that for a year and a half since the earthquake in Zagreb and almost a year since the earthquake in Banja thanks to ineffectiveness, inorganization and slowness of the Government of the Republic of Croatia with a post-traumatic recovery, we have not moved from place. What's frightening is today's data are unofficially about the infected and the deaths of the pandemic Covid. That's 4.571 abandoned and 26 dead in the last 24 hours. We have repeatedly warned from this pay phone in the assembly of inefficiencies, inconclusiveness of the civil protection headquarters, and we have asked these people to simply withdraw and to come who are more convincing and more efficient, more organized and who would better lead this crisis. We all remember that this headquarters we have the same visibility, the same conviction at the very beginning of the pandemic. However, when politics got involved in the work of headquarters, this whole reputation and conviction fell into nothing, into nothing. The data is frightening as well that in Zagreb, we have 43% vaccinated in Croatia, 43%. So this whole vaccination campaign didn't work out either, and we all know very well that vaccination is the only possible, the only possible defense against that terrible pandemic. So we again appeal to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to do something urgently, but it is urgent that people in Croatia do not die and that there are not so many infected that we do not have a collapse of the entire health system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66610	The apartment is approved. My colleague Peovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66611	I'm looking for a break on behalf of the HSS Club and the Workers' Front, first of all, to say, for 10 minutes, first of all, that I'm glad some MPs like God Petrov are overcoming some of the basics that are being heard on this side, but fellow Petrov is not Balthazar, it's Alan Ford. Now in the next hour, we're going to listen to all sorts of nice promises and what's come true, but it's really in line with what I said yesterday about minimum wage, so we promise nothing and we keep it, it's from Alan Ford. What can help us to defend ourselves, to defend ourselves against false statistics and manipulation of statistics that we will hear in the next 60 minutes, is important to provide some information that can help us. We will hear that there has been an increase in employment, so both Prime Minister and Minister Aladrovic are constantly the number of insurance companies and bring about our loss of employment compared to the European countries where we are among the weakest. So we have the weakest, weakest employment rate in Europe. They'll tell us there's been an increase in wages. Croatian workers' salaries are 37% of the salary of a Western European worker. They will tell us that there has been a rise in minimum wage and, of course, it will be compared to the period before 2016 because it is most important for them to compare with the SDP. And they will say that the minimum wage compared to the average growth rate of 38 per cent to 46% of the average salary, and we have one of the lowest average salaries in Europe, and that growth was one of the smallest growth in Europe. So we are among the 10 countries that have the lowest minimum wage, and in the last 10 years that minimum wage compared to the average was the smallest growth. The prime minister will also tell us that in two years we will have an average salary of EUR 1,000, I would warn him that this is a minimum wage in Slovenia. That's it, there's still some data that we're going to grow, but listen carefully to the numbers you're going to hear for the next hour.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66612	Let's go to the seventh request, your break will also be approved, colleague Oreshkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66613	I thank the president. Dear fellow MPs and MPs, I request a break on behalf of the Party Club Center and GLAS for 10 minutes so that during that time MPs can recall all the words that Andrej Plenkovic spoke when reporting for the past year. He announced major reforms in the field of justice, increasing equality, justice, wage stability, safety and availability of health services, modernisation of railways, kindergartens and schools. He called himself at the time of responsibility, sacrifice and solidarity of the entire nation, so I call on him to show this opportunity that he has the responsibility, first of all, himself, and not once again listen to a 60-minute report that will show that the fight against covid pandemic serves us as a mask behind which he will hide the fact that in the Republic of Croatia there is no reform at any level. Last year, the prime minister boasted that Croatia has people capable of performing such large and difficult tasks, so Croatia may have them, but there are no Plenkovic governments. In the government of pale ministers without their own vision, ideas and courage, it is hard to expect any results. I only agree with the fact that we have a challenging period, a period that requires very concrete changes and measures. So I call on Andrej Plenkovic to say in the next 60 minutes at least a few things about how any of the list of good wishes will be spent that he listed last year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66614	The apartment is approved. Comrade Hajdukovic, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66615	Thank you very much, Mr. President HS. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Social Democrats Club to consult on the continuation of this debate. In Croatia, in a phenomenal country for life as claimed by some government members whose report today will be defended by the prime minister, 23.3% of people live at risk of poverty and social exclusion, 43% of people live in families that are difficult and very difficult to make ends meet, more than half a million people in Croatia live in households where no person works, and 51.7% of people live in households that can't settle unexpected financial expenditure, while 48.6% of people live in households that can't afford a week off the house. Croatia depends on various forms of social assistance, according to the cost of the 6th country's basic directorates in the world. If we add to this the devastating fact that from day to day the number of people who work for minimum wage is growing, that number is already more than 52,000 people, then I am more than clear one ironic joke that is orbiting the Internet, it's about ten years old, but it's very nice to describe the situation in this phenomenal country for life, and that's the sport that Croatians love most, Croatian triathlon, which is the rise of credit, the skip of war and swimming in debt. Unfortunately, this is the Croatian reality that we need to talk about and I hope that the prime minister will also refer to these 23% of our citizens living at risk of poverty, living below the limit of decent life. It is a Croatian reality that Croatian citizens feel strongly on their skin, rather than release numbers that will be presented by the prime minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66616	The apartment is approved. Comrade Bačić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66617	Thank you, Mr. President. Honorable Prime Minister, respected Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, I request a 10-minute break in order to reiterate how and how Croatia managed thanks to the Government of the Republic of Croatia in this crisis, which is the most challenging period since the Homeland War, and conditioned by the crown pandemic. I would like to point out that thanks to the measures taken by the Croatian Government and the Civil Protection Staff in the health sense of Croatia in the constitution, it has provided such circumstances that we could come to the tourist season and achieve the most successful tourist season of all countries in the Mediterranean, and this has enabled us then both economic and financial stability. I would remind you that the previous global crisis that began in 2008. which has also affected Croatia that it took us more than six years to get back from this crisis and come before the crisis. Thanks to such measures by the Croatian government, which stood strong behind the Croatian economy, behind the preservation of jobs where with 18 billion kuna... the type of support saved jobs in a way that today we have more than 50,000 insurance companies than in 2020. or 6000 more insurance than 2019. Croatia recorded almost the largest GDP growth in Croatia in the third quarter is 16%. With such measures, we will discuss the budget rebalance very quickly, which will realise that in Croatia GDP growth is in 2021. More than 8%, so these are all indicators that say that the government has fulfilled its obligation, and what the Prime Minister in these for Croatia will tell us later, I have said very challenging times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66618	Thank you, too. The apartment is approved. And a final request from a colleague of the coat of arms, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66619	Thank you, Mr. President. I am, of course, looking on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, and I am pleased to hear Mr. Bačić's statement of Mr. Bačić's position shows in which direction the address of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia will go, and this is in the direction of showing the situation that you of the HDZ would want to be, but far from the truth, that is, to a large extent, a lie. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Croatia today has 4,500 covid infected, and we from the government of the Republic of Croatia have not heard concrete measures to deal with this. For two days, we are witnessing a dispute at the level of headquarters, the Ministry of Science and Prime Ministers over how classes will be conducted next week. So we couldn't make a clear decision about it, but we changed our attitude four times in two days. It is the reality of the Croatian fight against the pandemic, it is the real respected Mr. Bačić, it is the reality of the respected Prime Minister. So I ask you, I appeal to you today to give us a concrete taste of the measures that we will introduce in the period ahead of us to stop this 4 wave. But I'm also asking you for concrete answers to what's going to happen with the health reform you've been keeping in your drawer for six months, and this week it's shyly starting to come out. Are we really going to run out of sick? Are we really going to run out of health care? And how we're going to deal with a growing debt in healthcare that has re-escalated after the government has paid billions, and has done nothing to stop the growth of that debt. Prime Minister whether Croatian hospitals will be in the pandemic You're gonna run out of drugs again? [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66620	Thank you, too. So, we've exhausted the request for a break. Is anyone else picking up? If not, I will refer to Article 293b. And then we'll keep working. So now I will invite the Honorable Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Andrej Plenkovic, to present to us the Annual Report of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So it's 60 minutes away. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66621	Good afternoon, everyone. Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs, I am pleased to present a report on the government's work in the first year of our second term. I am talking about the year in which we had 2 waves of pandemic, a devastating earthquake in Banovina after the one in Zagreb, which we started with the biggest GDP decline, and we are completing it with a record increase in energy prices, increasing climate change and a new wave of epidemics. This is also the year in which strong measures managed to preserve jobs, prevent a wave of bankruptcy and have the largest number of employees in the last 13 years. Also this is the year and strong economic recovery, the year in which we merged the Pelješki Bridge, completed the Istrian Ipsion, selected new Rafala fighter planes and ensured the visa waiver for the United States. In addition, we are in the final stage of preparing for entry into the Schengen area and the euro area. We strengthen Croatia's position in Europe, in the world, we develop relations with our neighbours, and at any time we protect Croatian national interests. Valuing work and excellence and building a tolerance society that respects its national minorities, as is the case with modern democracies, we are developing Croatia conscious of our potential. We are fully committed, encouraged by a stable and renewed support from the Croatian public, with the support of a responsible and strong parliamentary majority. A few words about the context in which we are located, and then about solutions that require the full engagement of society and state. First, it's a pandemic that's been going on for almost two years and has hit our lives and health a lot. Then it is the deepest economic crisis in almost 100 years, which of course caused by the pandemic and which has disrupted global trade flows. Then, it is a climate crisis due to the ever faster global warming that in the coming decades, with more extreme weather disasters is becoming increasingly difficult to hit our way of life. This is also a growing need for increasingly scarce energy, natural resources and raw materials that depend on our development and success in the global race in innovation and achieving technological sovereignty. Furthermore, there are increasing social changes due to the rapid technological change, digitalisation and roboticisation, changes in the labour market and the emergence of new forms that require faster adaptation of workers and their lifelong learning for new occupations. And in the end, these are unfavourable demographic trends. Rapid ageing of the population, the growing number of born and depopulations of rural areas in Europe, but of course in Croatia, which is a structural threat to economic development, agricultural potential and sustainability of the pension and health system. On top of these global challenges, we must also address the consequences of the devastating earthquakes that hit Zagreb and the surrounding area first, and then Banovina and other counties, and cause total damage estimated at 129 billion kuna. We need to use this not only to strengthen our resistance to earthquakes but to restore the economy and improve the quality of housing. We are aware of all the challenges that we are building a solid and just country, making sure that no one is excluded and left behind. With modern sovereignty, we are using Croatia's increasingly strong position in Europe and the world to achieve our national interests and raise the quality of life of our citizens. We included our goals in the National Development Strategy until 2030, which was adopted by the Croatian Parliament, which directs the country's development on the basis of a clear vision of our future. In achieving the rapid recovery, around EUR 25 billion of European funds will help us first from the multiannual financial framework and the National Recovery and Resistance Plan with which we have started, which contains 76 reforms and 146 investments. In this respect, in order to respond better to the global challenges mentioned, we will place a special emphasis on green transition, digital transformation and the country's demographic revitalisation. Under such circumstances, the great work ahead of us and the responsibility entrusted to us by Croatian citizens oblige us to continue to work more responsibly on reform steps. To succeed in our efforts, trust in Croatia, trust in institutions, trust in our own future, and in order to build mutual trust, we need to be responsible and serious, and this concerns politics, citizens, all actors in society, from economy to media, through academic community to civil society. Today I will present the Report through 5 pillars in accordance with the Government's programme, which is social security, perspective, economic sovereignty, strengthened statehood and global visibility. I note that since the start of the mandate, since July last year we have sent 200 bill proposals to HS, of which HS has already adopted 120. Dear MPs and MPs, at a time when we are still facing the greatest health threat in modern history, when the most vulnerable among us are the most exposed, our first priority is that everyone in need of social security and provide it in all its constituents. In this respect, the state, apart from its redistributive role towards the most needed, will need to further strengthen social solidarity mechanisms because in a world facing climate change disorders, the most sustainable will be the most solidarity of societies, and Croatian society at its core is a solidarity society. Social security primarily refers to the possibility for everyone to receive the necessary medical care, so in this response to the pandemic we continued to strengthen the health system, but also to ensure the availability and effectiveness of health care, despite the fact that the pandemic has already cost us 35 billion kuna, or 20% of the budget. In these more than 600 days of combating the virus, I would especially like to thank our healthcare professionals, doctors and medical staff on the sacrifice, as well as all stakeholders in the health and civil protection system who are trying to contain the spread of the infection. In addition to increasing the salaries of doctors and medical staff by 24% over the past 5 years, we have also provided Covid with an extra 10% hourly allowance for each hour in treatment with virus patients and have ensured that overtime is paid. We ensure the functionality of the health system, and we have paid an additional 8.5 billion kuna to cover debts to drug suppliers and consumer medical material, of which 6.3 billion have been in place since the start of the pandemic, which has enabled the smooth work of 165 health institutions. Unfortunately, more than 9,000 of our fellow citizens have lost battle with or from the virus, which has affected many families throughout Croatia and with whom we sincerely sympathise. These are painful numbers and much more than any campaign, this should be enough to warn everyone about the necessity of vaccination as the most effective protection from severe illnesses so far and the best we have. At least once a dose of 56% of adults and over 72% over 65 years of age has been vaccinated in Croatia, which is still not enough to contain the epidemic, and today's number of people infected is also talking about it. By cooling the number of confirmed cases in this 4th wave, the number of cases has increased rapidly, and this is the reason for more vaccination, but also for the vaccination of the 3rd dose, especially among the elderly. And in these circumstances, we have continued to invest in health care, especially with a major project to modernise health care and strengthen health infrastructure worth 2.4 billion kuna. We have brought a plan to revitalise the production of the Immunological Institute in order to become self-sufficient in the long term in the production of different vaccines and blood products. A National Strategic Framework Against Cancer has been adopted, for which we have provided 720 million kuna through the Recovery Plan. We are preparing a comprehensive health reform, to make the system more efficient and reduce costs into sustainable frameworks. Financial savings and rationalisation must be carried out within the system through transparent business, responsible management and pooling of public procurement and optimisation of purchase costs. When we know that the risk of poverty in Croatia is about 18.4%, another important aspect of social security is the fight against poverty, in order to continue to reduce inequalities in Croatian society, therefore we are keeping a special account of the effectiveness of the social care system that takes care of more than 600 thousand users. We have therefore prepared a reform of the social care system to better protect users and improve the organisation of the system. It is a special priority to give people with disabilities the same opportunities in education, in the labour market and in society. Of course, all through the policy of inclusiveness. Social security is also prevention and protection against violence. For the sake of more quality protection of victims of violence and stricter sanctioning of violent offenders, we have changed the law package which abolished the criminal act of sexual intercourse without consent and introduced the state of long-term suffering as a consequence of violence. In addition, there are no more statutes for the crimes of sexual abuse and exploitation of a child, which enables the perpetrator to be punished years after the crime. The term "responsible person" is extended to social workers, school employees and anyone who performs public-interest tasks, thus providing them with greater legal protection. In order to protect the most vulnerable citizens, we continued modernising the executive process and reduced its cost. Of course, we've now ruled out the extent of those amounts that were previously subject to the exercise. It is important to protect the dignity of workers, but also to maintain the balance between creditors and debtors and to ensure the rule of law. For human reasons, we banned the raids from November 1st to April 1st, and we increased the main activity on the property from 20 to 40,000 kuna. Social security is also adequate pensions and material assistance to those with the lowest pensions. We have made it possible to pay the Covid bonus for pensioners whose pension incomes are lower than 4,000 kuna. The Covid Supplement has so far received 710,000 pensioners, which has been set aside from around 460 million kuna. In addition to providing income to older people who could not otherwise be provided, we have introduced a national compensation for older people of 800 kuna since the beginning of this year. In 5 years, the average pension increased by 432 kuna and in August was 2,866 kuna. We promised 5 years ago an increase of 5% in 4 years, and it increased by 18% but of course it's not enough for the very difficult and demanding life of our pensioners either. In addition, we continue to improve the first pension pillar and plan to increase our pension by another 10% by 2024. The minimum pension will gradually increase by 3%. 1.5% in '23, 1.5% in '25. of which 300,000 pensioners will benefit. This year, we have extended a circle of pensioners who can work half the time to family pensioners. Also, by raising the income censorship to 2,000 kuna per household member and to 2,500 kuna per single man, 120,000 more people will mostly have free supplementary insurance. Through the Zaželi programme, 14,000 women have been employed who provide house assistance services for 79,000 older people, especially in rural areas. In order to prevent a social fracture or a social divide that would dramatically increase the number of unemployed inevitably cause strong measures with more than 17 billion kunas to stand behind workers and entrepreneurs in the private sector and thus save more than 700,000 jobs, each of us also stabilised the business of 120,000 employers. The number of employees is 51,000 over last year. It reached a million and 600,000 employees which so far is the largest number of employees in August, which was a few months ago, two months ago, behind the record in 2008 and the second largest of independence. The unemployment rate that was at 13.3% five years ago fell to 7.3%. The result is an active employment policy measure in which around €5.5 billion was invested within 5 years, covering 165,000 people. In addition, despite the circumstances, average and minimum wages continue to rise. The average net salary in August was 7-118 kuna, which at the annual level was the nominal increase of 5.9% and 1,445 kuna, respectively, more than 5 years ago, and for the first time in February of this year it exceeded 7,000 kuna. I would like to remind you that from 2017 to today, we have increased the base for the calculation of salaries for state and public servants by 17% and 936 kuna respectively, while from 2012 to '17. It didn't change. To financially support our most vulnerable citizens tomorrow, the government will make a decision we discussed Monday that will increase the minimum net wage by 350 kuna net from January. From 3,400 to 3,750 kuna or 500 EUR net after consultation with our social partners. This significant increase of as much as 10.3% for 51,000 employees is the first time we raise above 50% of the average salary and above 60% of the net media salary. In August, the media salary was 6.014 kuna. I remind you that 5 years ago, the minimum wage was 38% of the average, so in 5 years we will raise the minimum wage by 50%, or by 1.254 kuna or 4 times more than in the previous 3 governments. These are concrete measures for the benefit of the lowest-income employees. Under the recovery plan, we will invest 2 billion kuna for the labour market and social protection. We adapted the Law on the work of new occupations and made it possible to employ digital nomads among the first in the world. In order to adapt to new trends and ensure that no one is excluded in the dialogue with the social partners, we will continue to modernise labour legislation that will allow new forms of work such as remote work and ensure better working conditions for greater economic security of citizens. Strengthening civil society and protecting the rights of national minorities are among our priorities. We want a society that respects fundamental human rights, in which everyone feels equal and secure, and especially members of national minorities. In this spirit, in cooperation with representatives and parliamentary representatives of national minorities, we have adopted operational programmes for the period '20-'24. to continue to promote a culture of tolerance in accordance with the Constitution and the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. We continue to support civil society organisations that have also been partners in supporting individual groups in society during this crisis. We hold regular half-year meetings with the Permanent Council of the Croatian Bishop's Conference and quality relations with the Catholic Church and all religious communities in Croatia. We have advanced the Voluntary Law to facilitate and encourage this form of socially beneficial civic action. Ladies and gentlemen, during the period of the 4th Industrial Revolution, competitiveness of the economy, demographic vitality of the population and the equipment of people with knowledge and skills are crucial for the perspective of Croatian society. After the pandemic and global recession brought GDP down by 8% last year, this year we expect a return to pre-crisis level, although we expected a growth of 5.2%, after a successful tourist season that still lasts and grows from 16.1% in the second quarter, we believe that we could reach an annual GDP growth of over 8%. It's on the trail of the "under promiso over deliver" wing. In the first 8 months of this year, industrial production increased by 8.3%, retail trade by 13.5, construction works volume index by 11.2, goods exports by 25.5%, tourist nights by 55%. At all expectations this year, we will be among the fastest growing economies in the EU, despite the pandemic, we have maintained a credit rating at investment level and that is also one of the elements of trust and reputation that we have both towards agencies and domestic and international financial markets. Already this year, we expect a reduction in the share of public debt in GDP by more than 2 percentage points, while the next years will be reduced by over 3 points. If it hadn't been for the pandemic, the economic crisis, our public debt would have been below 60% of GDP in two years. In doing so, the budget deficit will already be at 2.6% of GDP, meeting other convergence criteria, which will ensure that we achieve our goal and join the euro area as early as 1 January 2023. Based on the positive economic developments achieved and expectations of growth this year, we will return to the pre-crisis of GDP levels. Since August last year, 1.4 billion kuna has been paid to boost business competitiveness and strengthen the economy by applying research and innovation. It paid EUR 820 million for projects to develop innovation and EUR 172 million to increase capacity and improve production. In the 5th round of tax reform we have been implementing since the beginning of the year, we have reduced the profit tax rate from 12 to 10%, by 93% of companies with annual income to 7.5 million kuna. At the same time, we reduced the income tax rate from 24, to 20, from 36 to 30, which increased the income for citizens. This summer, about 150 thousand young people received a refund on the income tax of around 700 million kuna. This results in measures to exempt young people's income tax. In the past five rounds of tax cuts, citizens and the economy, we have charged 10 billion kuna. In order to encourage employment in deficit and over-needed craft professions, we have increased the number of student scholarships in question and doubled their amount. Over 4.5 thousand of these scholarships have been awarded over the past year, which in 4 years has provided us with 15 thousand scholarships, which is incomparably more than in 2015, when only 350 were. In addition, with 41 million kuna, we continue to encourage teaching students in crafts. The competitiveness of the economy depends on knowledge and skills and on the dynamics of the labour market. It is important for us that the education system be modern, that teachers and teachers be motivated and secure in their work and that students acquire knowledge and skills for future affairs, but also to strengthen their national identity and values. Further improvement of the education and education system encourages education reform and its evaluation, improving the status of educational and educational workers. Since the beginning of the year, we have increased salaries by 4% to educational staff and have increased their salaries by more than 20% since 2017. Here I would like to thank our teachers and all school workers, who have since the beginning of the pandemic shown their commitment to the development of education and new generations that build their own more perspective through the education system. In addition, we have guaranteed the status of an official and protected them from anonymous applications. We have initiated the creation of a school course critical opinion in primary school, which aims to teach students critical thinking about the world around them and learning with understanding. Significant efforts have been made to organise a pedagogical, school and academic year under pandemic conditions. By preparing 3 teaching models, we were able to respond to specific epidemiological conditions and ensure that the students were as many in the classrooms as possible. More than 2.2 billion kunas have been allocated for the restoration of infrastructure in education and science that has been damaged by the earthquake and 45 contracts for the reconstruction of 27 higher education and scientific institutions have been signed. With regard to higher education, about 14,000 scholarships are awarded annually, including in the STEM area and on a socio-economic basis. We encourage student work and have raised the student captain from 25.39 to 26.56 kuna, and after increasing the minimum salary from next year will rise to 29.9 kuna, which is twice as much as 5 years ago when it was 15 kuna. In the last five years. We have also provided record investment in science from European funds, as many as 3 billion kunas in order to provide scientists with the conditions for staying and working in Croatia. In the field of science and education, we are preparing new bill proposals that will encourage the development of day-long education in schools, start a pilot project of national exams and trial graduates, and contribute to the development and competitiveness of science, and to higher education. Under the circumstances of demographic ageing throughout Europe and the fall of birth, which increases the pressure on the sustainability of the pension and health system, demographic sustainability and vitality of Croatia are the issues on which our people's future and new generations depend. Turning demographic trends is therefore one of the most important issues on which we need to build a social consensus. First, we have directed measures for young people towards their education, scholarship, community involvement, and economic self-restraint through promoting employment to undefined, raising salaries and strengthening their creditworthiness, tax exemption or reduction, and resolving the housing issue, we have abolished professional training without establishing a working relationship and replaced it with traineeships, and we have raised to 130,000 kuna a measure of self-employment for young people with a business idea. We have targeted measures to strengthen the family on population, tax, social, and housing policies that increase household income, improve the balance of private and business life, and provide long-term family safety. We helped over 23,000 young families who resolved the housing issue through the POS programme or subsidisation of housing loans, which will continue until 2023 because it gave a positive demographic effect, in these families more than 4,100 children were born or adopted. With unprecedented investments, we have continued to improve material conditions in kindergartens in the past 5 years. 500 kindergartens are built or improved, which will also be financed through the recovery plan. In the last five years. We doubled the parental fee that applies to the other 6 months after delivery, and raised from 2,660 to 5,654 kuna, which is almost at the media pay level. As a demographic measure, we will raise it to 7,500 kuna for employed and self-employed parents next year, while at the same time introducing a father's leave of 10 days for employed and self-employed fathers and at the height of full pay. Measures to create a positive social atmosphere for the establishment or expansion of families, children and older focus on the active contribution of social and economic actors to the country's demographic revitalisation, such as municipalities, cities and counties, civil society organisations, and scientific and academic communities. Here I also think of employers who can provide better quality jobs and higher incomes for workers, which we have made possible through tax relief and better working conditions tailored to parents. Two important strategic documents are drawn up, a strategy for the demographic revitalisation of Croatia by 2030, and a National Youth Programme that will set a framework for the empowerment of young people and demographic restoration of Croatia. As you know, the implementation of the census was conducted for the first time both digitally and as a starting point for new population and other measures. The depopulation of rural areas of our villages, mountain-mounted and assisted areas, and the island are an added challenge for us to develop Croatia evenly in order to reduce the emigration of young people, and to give each and every one of our own an equal chance of developing and achieving our potentials. Therefore, balanced regional development is one of the pillars of our policy and partnership with the counties, cities and municipalities. We are working on the implementation of investments under the project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem agreed on by 18 billion kuna, and we are also launching a development agreement for 5 northwestern counties worth 15 billion kuna, the adoption of a programme of social and economic revitalisation of assisted areas of Sisak-Moslavina County affected by the earthquake. In the development of assisted and mountain-mounted areas in 5g. A billion kuna has been invested, which is 8 times more than in the period '11-'16 and the adoption of a development programme for these areas is under way. The Island Act has been improved to exploit the island's large, natural, economic and tourist potential and improve the quality of life of the island's population. In the development of the island at 5. 11.5 billion kuna has been invested through various programmes from state and European funds. We have also introduced a new division of NUTS-2 regions into 4 regions, making the less developed parts of Croatia more positioned. We intend to launch and faster development of the Dalmatian Zagora, Gorski Kotar, Like and Banovina, and continue to strengthen cooperation. One of the most affected sectors in the pandemic was culture. We have ensured that culture is available throughout the pandemic, and institutions are open, and we have designed specific support programmes for the movement of cultural life, and production and distribution of cultural content. In the last year, we provided more than 400 million kuna of direct support and credit to help independent artists, art organisations and companies in the field of cultural and creative industries, including the media. The new Law on Electronic Media took special care of the Croatian cultural and creative industry by increasing quotas for Croatian music, as well as new sources of revenue for the production and recording of Croatian films and series. We have also reached a good consensus on the issue of regulation of comments and the contribution to curbing hate speech in the media and social networks. We have agreed 3.5 billion kuna for 150 reconstruction projects, through the Solidarity Fund a special programme has been developed for the restoration of the cultural historical whole of Petrinja, on which the government will restore the closest centre of Petrinja. In response to the pandemic to promote reading, 2021 was declared a year of reading. Also important segment of the activities of our citizens is the sport which, as we know, has contributed most to the affirmation of Croatia's recognizability in the world and nothing makes us more proud and happy than the grand success of our athletes. So this year we witnessed their brilliant successes with 8 Olympic and 7 Paralympic medals in Tokyo. That is why we are developing Croatia as a country of sports life and encourage our citizens in a healthier and more active way of life. For 5 years, we doubled the allocations for sports that reached 400 million kuna and allowed free sport for 150 000 citizens. We will also bring the Sport Act, improve the entire system and sports infrastructure, and encourage amateur, recreational, school and top-notch sports. Ladies and gentlemen, the pandemic that hit the whole world has pointed to the vulnerability of the global economy as well as to all states. It has disrupted global trade flows, which has contributed to a halt in agricultural, transport and logistics chains around the world. This reflected the increase in transport prices, products and materials in many sectors. It has inhabited the level of vulnerability of Europe due to its technological dependence on imports of products such as microchips that are key to car production, white techniques and other products containing electronic components. It is similar with medical protective equipment that at the beginning of the pandemic was also not enough in Europe. In addition to the long-standing issue of energy sovereignty, which has taken a new dimension with the latest rise in gas prices, the crisis has opened a debate on our technological sovereignty. This is a new challenge for the EU and Croatia to respond not only to remain competitive in the global competition, but also to avoid its developmental innovation capabilities being in other people's hands. We have therefore highlighted the importance of the country's economic sovereignty in the government's programme, which primarily includes achieving self-sufficiency in food and energy production, sustainable use of natural resources and sustainable tourism. In this regard, the natural beauty of our homeland at a time when the environment and biodiversity are more endangered than ever, we show our patriotism and our responsible behaviour towards our forests, water, air and sea. This is how we save Croatia for new generations. Conscious of this, we are developing a circular economy that seeks clean and low-carbon technologies and that better manages waste and transforms it into a resource. Therefore, we will continue to close waste disposals, introduce a waste disposal fee to reroute waste to the industry as raw materials. Oslonac is also a European green plan that promotes the green transformation process and with the assistance that the EU should become the first climate neutral continent by 2050. In the achievement of food self-sufficiency and food safety, the key role of the Croatian village, our agriculture and fisheries that form the strategic branch of our economy and are part of our traditions. In addition to the liquidity insurance in all repositories, only in agriculture, fisheries and forestry through various funds and national budgets over a billion kunas are available. After the first day of the earthquake, we stood behind our farmers, allowing for the continuation of the 120 million-dollar production to be ensured for the restoration of the destroyed agricultural potential. In the fishing sector last year, we reached a record value of 209m euros in exports, we continue to work on opening new markets for agricultural and fish products, as well as the availability of uninterrupted fish landing by investing in 13 fishing ports. We adopted at the Government of the Proposal for a Agriculture Strategy until 2030, which aims to increase Croatian agriculture to 30 billion kuna annually by 2030 and thus contribute to the country's food self-sufficiency. The recovery plan will also finance reforms that will improve the use of natural resources and contribute to strengthening the food supply chain. With food safety issues, it is also important to produce mainly based on fossil fuels, and we are increasingly seeing our exposure to energy market disturbances. It is therefore important to think strategically and develop a quality energy mix that will simultaneously ensure available, secure and clean energy for all of us. As you have seen, the government has reacted in a timely manner, stabilised the price of oil derivatives for 30 days, 11 and 11.10, respectively, and we will take other measures if necessary. Unlike many other European countries, gas prices in Croatia are stable and will remain stable until April 1st when we leave the heating zone. The price of electricity in Croatia is one of the lowest among 33 European countries, its stability is the fruit of precisely quality energy mix. In this context, we see the strategic importance of a natural gas terminal in Krk that we have opened at the beginning of the year and will contribute to the stability of the gas supply of our gas system and our energy independence in the long term. In the fight against climate change with renewable energy sources, nuclear energy also plays an important role, which also does not emit CO2 and has a significantly higher energy potential and can provide a stable supply that does not depend on weather conditions. Croatia co-owners 50% of the Krško nuclear power plant from which it receives 16% of its electricity. Therefore, recently, along with 9 other EU member states, it has pledged to recognise nuclear energy at Union level as low-carbon energy that is inevitable for an effective reduction in greenhouse gases. The pandemic has shown the vulnerability of the tourism sector, the need to strengthen its resilience to the future crisis and develop more sustainable forms of tourism. At the beginning of the year we established the national mark Safe staying Croatia and branded Croatia as a safe destination. We have secured a tourist season whose success was above all expectations. Since the beginning of the year, we have achieved 13.1 million arrivals, 82.3 million overnight stays, or 74% more arrivals and 54% more overnight stays than last year, and at the same time in 2019, which as we know was record, reached 67% of arrivals, 77% of overnight stays and 88% of the value of fiscalized accounts. That means we've hit with balanced measures. Preparation for the next tourist season we are already working and at the end of this week we will hear on the Days of Croatian Tourism how to develop the Sustainable Tourism Development Strategy by 2030. In the more sustainable development of Croatia, there is a special importance in quality space management and energy efficiency in construction because of good planning and smart investment, saving energy and money and reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Last year we co-financed the restoration of 3100 family houses worth 200 million kuna and for a new round of applications we secured 300 million kunas. In the construction phase, about 530 POS apartments are located at 15 locations. Construction plans are planned and 13 more locations. A draft programme to combat energy poverty has been developed using renewable energy sources in residential buildings in assisted areas. Given the reconstruction process, we expect a bigger investment cycle in the construction sector. Two devastating earthquakes have caused a really difficult blow to the housing fund. They damaged 53 796 buildings, of which 15 932 after the earthquake that struck Zagreb and 37 864 in Banovina. These earthquakes were an additional blow to many of our fellow citizens and a challenge for society that was to organise a complex financial set-up and a long-term reconstruction process in the middle of the pandemic. The most important thing was to organise a temporary accommodation in which 25 million kuna has been invested so far, covering 164 persons and will be financed until further notice. Emergency recoverys have been funded on the 1871 building. In order to establish a transparent process of reconstruction that includes not only construction works but also the preparation of project documentation, the Law on Reconstruction that we are now improving, which I believe the Parliament will vote on Friday to speed up the whole process in the return of those who have suffered by earthquake in their homes. The state will take over the financing of construction reconstruction, and we are also creating a framework for self-renovation for which the state will provide the necessary funds and for the owners of the apartment whose building has to be removed, the state will provide the replacement apartment at their request. We've secured $5.1 billion from the European Social Fund, $5.9 billion from the Recovery Plan and $200 million from the World Bank. I apologize, from the European Solidarity Fund. The crises we've been going through lately, so from the crisis in the biggest company of Agrokor 4.5 years ago, pandemics, earthquakes, the biggest economic crisis since II. The global war, the increase in energy prices and to all faster climate change, points to a key and irreparable role of the state. The strength of its institutions depends on the protection of citizens and the economy in an increasingly unstable and unsustainable world, which makes it an important priority for us to strengthen the state in response to all challenges and crises. This has been done before through raising the efficiency of public services and the resilience of public finances that we have achieved over the past year. In times of crisis as well as in the period of technological progress in which countries compete with innovation, it is important to overcome challenges that can be a threat to democratic institutions and systems such as false information, cyber threats, protection of personal data and privacy. To master these processes is important in order to preserve our values, rule of law and constitutional order. This must be a priority for all, including Croatia, to preserve constructive political dialogue with the fight against hate speech and false news so that citizens as key stakeholders of the democratic process can create their own court on the basis of verified, accurate and credible information. A terrorist attack on St. John's Square. Mark, a little over a year ago who performed a young and clearly radicalized person, showed consequences that could cause disinformation and the spread of hate speech. For this we still expect the answer from both the Croatian police and the State's Attorney's office. Our key objectives are to increase the efficiency of the judiciary. A reduction in the number of pending cases, the resolution of all cases older than 7 years in which the statute of limitations could take place in the next 3 years. We want to further reduce the number of pending cases by over 72,000 as well as the duration of proceedings in county and municipal courts from 283 to 200 days. We continued to digitise the judiciary, the E-script system was improved, a new E-communication module that allows electronic communication with courts. We are working on modernising, depoliticalising and professionalising a public administration that should be an effective service for citizens and the economy. Of course, we want to eradicate corruption which is one of the main obstacles to building a fairer and more developed society. The policy of this government is clear, if anything is proven, it has been proven to be untouchable. The DORH, USKOK and police are doing their job independently and no one is looking into secret reconnaissances, which is a key prerequisite to successfully fight corruption and crime. We want the punishments to be such that everyone realizes that corruption is not worth it. With the implementation of the Anti-Corruption Action Plan, which is at 90% of the implementation of all activities in our government's mandate, a new Anti-Corruption Strategy has been developed. It also prepares a package of laws aimed primarily at strengthening preventive anti-corruption mechanisms and bodies. One of the government's strategic goals is Croatia's entry into the euro area and adoption of the euro as a currency, thus achieving deeper integration into the EU, our economy further protects against external shocks and create assumptions for further growth in credit ratings. After 15 months ago, right after the parliamentary elections we entered the European Course Mechanism two days ago are in the final preparations for the transition to the euro. In order to avoid misunderstandings, Croatian citizens had already decided on this in the 2012 referendum when we decided to join the EU, it was part of our Accession Treaty, which was supported by citizens in the referendum, and then the assembly assembly seemed to me with only one abstention. I see that today there are certain political parties who have a second position, we respect that position, but we also point to facts and point to a huge difference between political parties that have actively contributed to Croatian membership in the EU in the past 30 years and those that are not. That optic isn't the same. What I'm trying to say is that in the euro area while this unprecedented crisis caused by the pandemic will welcome us with something stronger than we have now. The currency risk for the population and businesses would not exist, the exchange costs of exchange of kuna in euro would disappear, we would have a lasting benefit from the pressure to reduce interest rates, the incentive to international exchange and investment would be lasting and great. Joining the euro area is important for our businessmen about two-thirds of the loans to businesses are foreign loans to the euro or to the foreign exchange clause in the euro. Over half 52% of total trade exports are focused on the euro area, 70% of total revenues from tourism are generated by guests from the euro area, and as you know in this process we have been running since 2018, motives have been chosen for future Croatian euro coins, where citizens have had the opportunity to present their proposal, the motives that have been selected by the Croatian chess industry as the basis of all coins, the geographical map of Croatia, Kuna, Nikola Tesla and Glagolitics, and the competition for selecting art solutions is ongoing. A few words about the transport sector that is the country's blood flow where the state has an important role to play to encourage investment in transport infrastructure in the development of the economy. We want to invest really more in the next period than we've ever invested in HH. The year ahead will be the year when the Pelješki bridge will physically connect the south of Croatia with the rest of Croatia. There's no more sovereignist move than I've been thinking for decades, and three key projects are behind us. One particularly important for the Istrian County, which is the completion of the full profile of the Istrian Ipsilon, the beginning of the construction of the second tunnel of the Učka tunnel, which is important for the highway network in Istria to be integrated with the network of highways in the second part of Croatia. The Svilaj bridge was built across the Sava which is an integral part of the pan-European road corridor VC, which will be completed in Baranja next year. 450 million kunas are invested in the development of Luke Rijeka as well as almost 90 million kunas in the upgrade of infrastructure and development of the Slavonski Brod Riverport. By investing in ports, waterfronts, harbors, we continue to renaissance on the Croatian coast where we have invested more than two billion kunas so far. In July this year, we made a decision on the modernisation and restructuring of the railway sector in which three billion euros will be invested, as I said. A flat project of free public rail transport has also been launched. A few for children and primary and secondary school students, that's 780,000 children. In addition to transport infrastructure, we want to improve digital transformation, build digital infrastructure for fast internet availability, further improve quality electronic services, digitise business in the state administration, improve digital skills among citizens. We redesigned an e-Citizen portal that today has over 1.5 million users, which is 25% more than six months ago, now 95% of electronic services are on the portal. For the first time, we spent the census in part and digitally, as many as 1.6 million of our citizens took advantage of that possibility. We have launched a Digital Croatia Strategy, we want to develop an information and communication sector that has a strong potential to increase our GDP because it is one of the fastest growing industries with an average annual growth rate of 12%. We are, as we know, exposed to great competition in such a globalised world, and that is why it is crucial that we take advantage of all the opportunities we have at our disposal. Our global identity is based on our identity and values. Only by strengthening our own awareness of our specialities will we create assumptions that we have a strong position on the political, energy, economic, investment, tourism and cultural map of the world. And that is why it is our obligation to cultivate our national identity, our history and tradition as well as the dignity of the Homeland War and Croatian defenders who make us proud, but also motivate us to be a more developed and influential country in Europe and the world. And therefore, in order to strengthen the position of Croatian defenders who are responsible for what we have free Croatia today, we have further advanced the Law on Croatian defenders, passed the Law on Civil Victims from the Homeland War, established veteran centres worth nearly 340 million kuna, continued with a programme of preventive systematic examinations of Croatian defenders who joined 72,600 Croatian defenders in 5.g. Lived over 5,000 victims of the Homeland War and precisely because we hold to the stone foundation of our statehood. After we declared Vukovar the place of a special homeland pitet this year, we first marked the 30th anniversary of the Battle of Vukovar, the turning battle of the Homeland War, and we pay special attention to the search for 1858 missing persons in the Homeland War and for this purpose we have brought a new Missing Persons Act. Croatia is a safe country, and we can thank all stakeholders of the home security system, police, military, civil protection, firefighters, HGSS, red cross and others. So we continued to strengthen all components of this system, equip and modernise the police and raise the effectiveness of crisis management systems. Croatia has met all the technical preconditions for entering the Schengen area and therefore at the moment we are working on political and diplomatic lobbying to make the decision soon. The Croatian border is day and night controlled by 6500 police officers who perform an important duty to protect the state border and not only the border crossings but also the green border, and I would like to mention that here we were a few days ago and finally something that we were 30. waiting, and this is Croatia's entry into the visa exemption programme for the United States. Croatia will also be one of 11 countries of which are only 3 European, Germany, Switzerland and the UK, whose citizens will have easier entry into the United States through the Global Entry system. We strengthen HV in order to raise our own defence capabilities, strengthen Croatia's credibility as an ally in NATO, and raise standards and conditions of work of soldiers, officers and officers, and they also played a major role in helping citizens after the earthquake. We have made a historic decision on the acquisition of 12 multi-purpose fighter aircraft, French rafts, which will strengthen Croatian Air Force and practically in the geographical radius from Austria to Greece does not have as strong military aviation as it will be in Croatia in 2024. We are in the process of preparing strategic documents on the defence strategy of the long-term development plan of the armed forces, all in order to strengthen the capabilities of the HV, and we are also strengthening the Croatian military industry. I also thank our firepowers, which are this great fire summer, not so much in Croatia, but as much as they have helped Greece and Turkey elsewhere in the Mediterranean and, of course, almost daily BiH. In an external political sense, we have strengthened our position within the EU and NATO, we have joined the Mediterranean 9 EU members, we are helping BiH, we are protecting the position of Croats who must be a truly equal constitutional people and have their legitimate representatives in BiH institutions and therefore we want a fair, fair and timely amendment of the electoral law. We have invested a strong protest with Serbia on the position of Croatian language in textbooks in Serbia, and we expect this rough inaccuracy to be corrected. We are also working on further steps for OECD membership. In a month, Croatia will visit for the first time bilaterally a French president who comes to my call and we think we will continue a good positioning in all multilateral forums and build good bilateral relations. In conclusion, I would like to stress that despite the many problems and challenges we face, probably with the mistakes we are doing honestly as a government based on the trust of our citizens and the trust we have received in HS, we are trying to manage in this troubled time in the interest and economic recovery and development and quality of our fellow citizens' lives. We will continue to do so in the interest of Croatian citizens committed and engaged. We have what is most important, trust, and we have both knowledge and energy and will to bring together HS the best solutions for Croatia's development. And especially before us is the key challenge of this developmental 10th year of Croatia where we have more resources than ever to make up for what other Central and Eastern European countries have done in the '90s and the first 10th years of 2000, and in this 10th year behind us and to make Croatia more developed and powerful, and for the process of demographic revitalisation to be great, I would say, a roof project of society and the entire people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66622	I thank the Prime Minister, right in a second. Now we move to debate, we have 12 clubs reported, it's possible to speak up to 20 minutes, so if you all use these 20 minutes, the debate will last 240 minutes and 4 hours after which the Prime Minister is entitled to 20 minutes final. I'm opening the debate now. First up, it's SDP's Club of Representatives, my esteemed colleague, Grbin, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66623	I thank the Honorable President HS. Thank you, Your Honor, the President of the Croatian Government, but I thank you for something else. I thank you for allowing us to travel to Switzerland or Norway for an hour because this report you submitted does not reflect the reality of life in Croatia. Dear Mr. President, I expected you, we have invited you to give concrete answers to some burning problems in Croatia, and you have very skillfully avoided touching all those areas for which your government has no answers or have provided information that is most slightly incorrect. I will start with what I do today when there are more than 4500 cases of coronary infection with the virus, and in Zagreb each other tested positive, in my deep conviction perhaps even the most interesting interests of our citizens, which is the safety of health care. Dear Mr Plenkovic, you did not improve the quality of health care during your government, something happened that was almost and unrecorded in times of war, which is that hospitals were suspended delivery of medicines. And ask those patients who couldn't get chemotherapy how they were promoted health care. Dear Mr. Plenkovic, and after the intervention, the health debt is growing. Health reform is gone because what came out in the paper a few days ago is not a reform. This is just thinking about how to save healthcare from bankruptcy without a single word about how we will improve the quality of health care. What we haven't heard about, and I think this day, these days, it's very, very interesting what will happen to the pains. Will the sick stay as part of health insurance, will they switch to some other items in the budget or will there be none? It's something the government's annual report should at least mention. Because the government's annual report is not only the moment in which the account is under the last year but it is also an opportunity to point the direction for the next one and to tell the citizens of this country what to expect. And even after your speech, the citizens don't know if they'll have the right to be sick. What's going to happen to participation? What about the extra health insurance price? What about the waiting lists? There is not a single announcement of concrete programmes that should improve health care standards in Croatia. And I will mention only some who existed and who, by the time HDZ's authorities arrived, were immediately abolished. One was the Early Cancer Discovery Program, another programme plus which is active until the waiting list is reduced in Croatian hospitals. These are concrete measures we expect of you. When we talk about Covid, who is directly related to the crisis in health, the Prime Minister and Minister Beros point to the culprit for the current situation and say they are citizens who do not want to be vaccinated. But Plenkovic declared victory over the crown three times. And how do you think that affected people? If we won three times why would we still fight? At this point, we're short of what we've been missing since day one, and that's the system of fighting the coronary virus. And you can talk about some of the measures you have taken, such as the Covid supplement, but then be honest and say that most of these measures are funded by EU funds and that in Croatia when we talk about doctors some measures are lagging behind. With Covid's addition to health care staff, I think other measures such as psychological help, and especially vaccination education, have to be introduced, and this has lagging behind. Not just to health workers, to everyone. We in the crown have learned nothing and today we have a complete verse about making decisions. And you didn't talk about it. And this has happened not only in the last year but since the first moment we faced this challenge that you really are not responsible for and you can't be. None of us here have affected the appearance of the crown, but we define how we're going to fight it. And that is why I am taking this opportunity to repeat very concrete proposals on how to deal with the coronary crisis and how to ensure that measures have a greater impact and that they really contribute to reducing the number of infected and then the severely ill and unfortunately fatalities. Measures should be linked to objective criteria, as other countries do. It is necessary to keep people informed on time. We don't even know today how classes are going to take place in a week. We know what's gonna happen next Thursday and Friday, and we know what's behind it. People took advantage of their vacations, many employers don't give them any more work than home, and you don't talk about it today or yesterday. These are the questions you must answer in the government's annual report as well. How people will ensure that they stay in their jobs while teaching children online to continue from home. And maybe it's easy for some senior, and what about those kids of 7, 8, 9 or 10 years old. Without parents, not only are they not safe in their homes but they will certainly not show teaching in an adequate way that should bring them knowledge, and you are talking about education. A clear message is needed and a clear battle with the pandemic is needed because this contemplation leads to people's mistrust in the system. And that's why I'm asking you for one. If you have people in the government's scientific advice who don't want to be part of the team, and you obviously have them, if they keep sending a message that's coming across our efforts to improve our response to the pandemic, then it's your responsibility to thank these people for your cooperation. And as you have called on the secretary in your time to sign resolution decisions, it is time for you to do so now. And the same thing is in another fight, fighting corruption. Where do you get the right to talk about strengthening the system when you and your government are personally conducting the euthanasia of the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest that should be the first dam in the fight against corruption because we know that conflict is the lobby of corruption. Well, Mr. Plenkovic, your majority of HRT appoints a person who is in direct conflict of interest because he owns a company that does what HRT does. You don't fight corruption, you promote it. You are now talking about a reduction in the number of cases, I would support it, and every day I would raise my hand, but just during you, your government and your justice ministers, after almost a full decade, there has been an increase in the number of pending cases. The judiciary is partially digitized and the only useful consequence of this digitisation is that we now see clearly how many things are wrong. But don't do anything to change them, and that's the problem. You're talking about freedom of the media. Well, Croatian journalists understand clearly what kind of pressures they have from the editorship and how they should be setting up a program to your extent. So you provide questions before an interview for yourself so God doesn't give you a God wouldn't happen if someone asked you something groovy and then a journalist who dares to do something like that at a press conference gets the language of soup and the threats of editorship. And part of the press gets lawsuits that directly threaten their existence. It is the reality of the freedom of the media in Croatia that you do not talk about and how much you support, it also says that when we have proposed a concrete conclusion that should prevent such lawsuits against journalists, your majority vote against. It is the reality and corruption and censorship in Croatia. Reality is even worse when we touch poverty. Yes, you announced a minimum wage increase. And of course it is something to support but it also needs to be opened up to the question whether it is enough when Croatia faces a huge price increase. Is that enough? Because the minimum wage isn't there to be a number. The minimum wage should be there to ensure that people living from their work can ensure their incomes life rather than survival. And under the conditions that exist today in Croatia, the minimum wage that you propose is not. But it is also not a policy to work on Sundays where we base ourselves solely on bans and only in one sector, trade and we do not think about those who, even after this change of law, will work on Sundays, ensure that this work is adequately paid. Of the catering activities of many others, people who will continue to work on Sundays after the amendment of the Labour Act will not be paid for their work properly but you do not talk about it. Don't even talk about 800,000 pensioners living below the official poverty line. You're talking about the social program, but don't talk about closing up family homes, making 7,000 people out of housing, and we don't have a plan to take care of them, how to help them, how to make sure they live normally. That's what Mr. Plenkovic is talking about. The measures mentioned in your report are mainly based on EU money. But Croatia has its own budget. Croatia has obligations and money that comes from the taxes of Croatian citizens to use to raise the quality of life. But we return only for a moment to the money coming from the EU. In order for this money to actually be used in Croatia, we have to have something called operational programs and Croatia is currently very late with the adoption of such programmes. With this delay, we question how much money we will really withdraw. We lost 2021 and you don't talk about it in your report. Don't say anything or how we're going to improve our capacity that since we lost in 2021, we don't lose 2022. And it can be available to us and 40 billion euros from EU funds, and 60 and 100 if we are not able to do our part of the job, we will not get that money and it will end up somewhere else. I therefore appeal to you, take the necessary measures to bring these operational programmes in and so that Croatia can really use the funds available to it. And when we talk about recommendations coming from the EU, then inflation-related ones are particularly important. And inflation is the price of energy. The commission president said a few days ago about the package of measures proposed by the EU and it concerns tax discharge, state subsidies and relief for citizens and the economy. You haven't used any of these measures. When we talk directly about the price of fuel, yes, you blocked the price rise for a month, but it's a short-term measure. The price of oil in world markets has continued to rise. Now it's time because in 15 days this measure expires, now it's time to decide how to deal with the increase in energy prices when this measure stops. These decisions must be prepared and they must start to apply on the first day after the end of this moratorium that has been introduced because otherwise, we have an increase in fuel prices that will then be spilled into a number of other items of citizens' lives. And when you mention energy from nuclear sources, let's be totally honest and mention the problem of waste management. Because nuclear energy, respected colleagues and colleagues, is missing from nuclear waste, and if we're talking about going back to nuclear energy, then at least tell us what we're going to do with nuclear waste that's being taken care of at Krško power plant for a few dozen miles from the city center of Zagreb, that's reality, let's talk about what we're going to do with it. The proposed solutions we're talking about are really not good, but it's not even the current state and it's time that if we go back to nuclear energy then we say what we're going to do with nuclear waste. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Prime Minister spoke of a successful tourist season and of course we are all happy about it. But when we bury beneath the surface and return to fixed patterns of behaviour where our economy is, our economic security is turned solely towards tourism. Unlike other countries, we haven't used the last year and a half to make a systematic analysis of our economy and to ensure that we turn from renting to safer, more serious forms of economy. We're still completely focused on tourism. And that's bad. And it is not sustainable in the long term because the next crisis does not have to be pandemic but it will affect tourism and then the entire economy of Croatia and the standard of life. I'm going to open a few topics now that the Prime Minister hasn't even touched, and I think they're relevant at this point. Dear colleagues and colleagues, what are we going to do with INA? Five years ago, her ransom was announced, the day before yesterday a powerful verdict was reached saying that the contract which is based on the acquisition of management rights in the INI by MOL is a fruit of the criminal act and now is the time to hear the answer from the Government of the Republic of Croatia. What about the INE ransom? And will this verdict, the final verdict of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, be used to improve Croatia's position in relation to MOL and how? There are no answers. He wasn't here today. He hasn't been here in days. Next thing you know, what are we going to do with the leasing societies? We heard and there are certain decisions by supervisory agencies that confirm that 700 million kuna was stolen from Croatian citizens. What will the state, what will Andrej Plenkovic do to get that money back to the citizens? If we're listening to today's government report, nothing at all. Croatia will again bend its back in front of banks and will again become a state of large capital at the expense of citizens and their economic and other interests. And that, of course, is also connected to that fight against corruption and to the improvement of justice, which is actually just a dead letter on paper. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Croatia needs a serious turn. Croatia cannot move forward on such foundations. Just one example the government boasts about. Incentive housing loans. Yes, at first glance, some people are allowed to reach the apartment, but in fact, with these stimulating housing loans, the price of real estate was raised by those who had received the loans, and all others who did not have the right to incentive loans raised the price of housing and made it impossible for some to buy an apartment. Therefore, Croatia needs a serious housing policy that will not be aware of such ad hoc measures as incentive loans. Let's look at other countries that do it successfully, we don't have to copy their models, but we can find ways to implement them in Croatia. Among other things, the active involvement of a country that will help not to be among the last EU countries by people leaving their parents' home. Our fellow citizens and fellow citizens are waiting 30 years to leave their parents' house because they can't go before that. And I can't because there's an active state policy missing that should help them. And lastly, the Prime Minister spoke of green transition, he talked about green energy, while some HDZ counties are making spatial plans to prevent the construction of solar power plants. On the one hand, investments in green energy are blocked, and on the other hand, people who would want to, who could prevent access to funds from EU funds. And this thing that I'm ending up with just shows one thing. What we have listened to from Andrej Plenkovic for the last hour with Croatia and with life in Croatia It doesn't really matter. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66624	The next club of MPs will be that of the SDSS, and the respected representative Milorad Pupovac will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66625	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, it is not unusual for us all to start with the pandemic, nor for us to continue with earthquakes as well as other topics such as price increases and risks of increasing energy prices and energy shortages. These are direct circumstances affecting everything that we as a state could do in terms of health reform, in terms of economic reforms, in terms of social reforms, and that is unfortunately, these are limiting moments. No matter what perspective they look at it from. From the position of the government or from the position of the opposition. A few words about the pandemic. So, when it started two years ago, there was fear because we weren't almost ready for anything, or with masks that some people still refuse to do today, or with respirators that unfortunately people and right now are getting to, and some of our colleagues have been through this hell, and some unfortunately have ended badly, especially the vaccine. Today, when we have all these things, we have an increase in superstitions, and they contribute differently, from those who should spread faith in knowledge, with faith in God, and these two things only go against one another in unfortunate circumstances. Those who turn the fight against the globalism of the unjust into superstitions and bad political messages do great harm and yet still call on the people, do great harm to that people, to public health. And that's why I'm going to say this, as no one has the right to act illegally or illegally, or as no one has the right to any kind of disease either sexually or some others to endanger other people's health, so they have no right to do this and they have to take adequate measures. And I am sure that the appropriate measures will need to be taken in a very short time because the virus not only spreads in numbers because we are not vaccinated enough but also spreads to the younger and younger populations and endangers their health and not only the oldest and most vulnerable. And this is an indicator of how and in what direction it can be developed, and therefore it is necessary to take adequate measures and not make unhealthy compromises for economic reasons or for some other reasons, because this will eventually come back with the collapse of health and the collapse of the overall functioning of society. As far as the earthquake is concerned, we have been through the worst, we have learned what we need to fix, we have passed a law that will speed up the possibility of rebuilding family homes and others both in Zagreb and in Banija, but I think we should also thank the people who have worked on it, members of staff led by Vice President Medved and Vice President Milosevic. But it should also be said that there are at least two other things to be done in order for this to be done with the creation of a new legal framework and ensuring a 700m-euro financial framework for the City of Zagreb plus which we have already received largely, or not largely, but we have only been given the question of how long and how we will manage to realise and likely 300m euros with our resources planned for 2022. which amounts to nearly 300 million kuna plus for a year after I'm not talking about what's going to be the subject of our debate. It's a significant asset, but I'm not sure the fund is qualified for this job and it's run so it's doing this job right, I'm not sure that the ministry is teamed up in an adequate way and that the internal organization is set up so that it can do the job properly. I think it's in our interest to change it and do what it takes so that people don't wait in suspense and that the first houses are restored to what's already being restored before winter. As far as the third topic I want to talk about is the issue of regional development and balanced regional development. We are a country with extremely unbalanced regional development. Some of our colleagues, among whom I want to point out this club, whose name I speak rightly, rightly points out that inequality within the EU, between the narrow circle of members and the new members we are among, and we are something that is a problem for the Union itself, and we need to change that. And the negotiations that ended last year and this year for Croatia on the multi-annual financial framework and the New Generation, Europe's new generation ended well for Croatia thanks to the negotiating skills of both the government and the government president, and it didn't have to be that way. Therefore, but we need to work to change this for our own, our equality within the Union is increasing both in terms of technological development and in terms of industrial, especially new industries. But that's a subject for another occasion. What I want to say is that this inequality is present in Croatia. Since the average of development Zagreb is 5 times more developed than all other counties, and only two or three more counties are accompanied by Primorje-goranska, Dubrovačko-neretvaska and Zagreb ring, and others unfortunately stagnate not only those, but what we see in Croatia between Zagreb and most other counties, we also see in the counties between the county centres and the rest of the county. It burns still somehow, Pacrac lately, but many other small municipalities are almost forgotten, and we'd like to abolish them. Croatian roads and county administrations of Croatian roads have only additionally assigned them some extra roads they do not know to finance. So these days some small municipalities in the area of the carlova County got 25, 30 kilometers of roads, what are they going to do with them? It's just like you tied a rock around their feet and said, "Go, swim." That's the kind of thing we have to change. So internal regional development needs to be looked at differently and not by the ministers and the ministry, they need to understand that ministers are for all of Croatia, not just for individual counties. He is equally self-responsible to me for Osijek-Baranja, but for both Sisak-Moslavina and Virovitica-Podravska. I mention these two because they're also demographical, and at the same time they're specifically affected. I could mention some more, but let's just stop at that. So, we need to raise awareness of this as a permanent task for all of us, and to that extent, true patriotism is measured, and not as well as a good part of the colleagues in the tradition of the early '90s, the late '80s, the beginnings of the '90s talk about the will of the people. This is all measured and quantified in an adequate way, something similar to the debate, and these are the same things for discussion and achievement. It is good that social, social security is also a topic that the Prime Minister, the government, as well as the opposition is paying adequate attention. There is no doubt that Croatia, while its demographic structure is such that it has a significant number of older populations, must separate the necessary resources, however difficult it is, for people of older age, especially in areas where there is no assumption that the wider community provides any support for these people. Therefore, not only homes for older and powerless, but also programs, such as the Wish Programme, must not be interrupted because it is a direct attack on the minimal safety of the lives of elderly people, who rarely live in a very basic family of two members or one at a time. They live on that, of course, either on the edge of poverty or within poverty. And in the counties that I mentioned, such as Požega-slavonska or as Ličko-senjska, in the good part of public transport is non-existent. People ride on school buses when they have schools. And when it's gone, then the transport for these people is gone, unless adequate organizations are organised that will provide it and will establish that kind of help to people. Without the adequate social programmes that have worked so far, it is not possible to do so in the ministries. The Prime Minister rightly stressed the need for trust within the society and within us. It is a serious problem in institutions, trust in people who behave in the institution, and I agree that it is necessary to appeal to it. I will, from my perspective and my experience on behalf of the SDSS Club, say several ways as possible. First, by strengthening education and better status of school institutions, school teachers and people working in the school system. And better programmes to raise awareness of our citizens in building trust, trust based on legality, trust based on ethics, trust based on social solidarity. And in that sense, I think it's equally important that we invest in science. The Prime Minister has rightly pointed out culture. Science also, especially in the context of strengthening trust. The experience of the pandemic taught us, the experience of the global information flow on the one hand, on the other hand, resistance, negative aspects of globalisation that brings people is strengthening knowledge and science of crucial importance. It's of paramount importance. The superficial religion cannot replace the deep for people who believe and are wider. The superstition cannot end and cannot perform, or even better, nor can education and knowledge end, cannot replace the superficial information that people get on social networks, the kind of people they get in public space. We all, not only Croatia, the whole world, is in a situation that we have created a powerful technological system of communication, but not the management of that system by every single person based on his and her knowledge, and it needs to be regained, without any intention of limiting anyone's freedom, but we are talking about the necessity of this subjectivity of freedom being based on education, on knowledge, on ethics. When it comes to trust, there is no better political basis for trust than is constitutionality and legality, each of us can contribute to strengthening constitutional and legal patriotism in the Republic of Croatia and combating corruption, but also in the fight against populism. As far as I'm concerned, as far as the Club of Representatives of the SDSS is concerned, the population is corruption, corruption of feelings, corruption of the mind as is, of course, the financial monetary or influential form of corruption that is often talked about here, but it's not enough to talk about how and how cheap forms of populism are also corrupting. We are a nation small we have come out of war we have different experiences and we are free of bad heritage in this regard. Getting new ones isn't good. And in the context of the debate, it should be pointed out that in fact our common act is to strengthen constitutional patriotism and strengthen legality as a basis for mutual political trust. At the end of our environment are dynamic sometimes critical political processes, whether it is BiH, Montenegro, Kosovo, Serbia and for us as SDSS they are very important and challenging processes or... What has happened over the past months, we have treated these processes the most responsibly as we knew and what we have done, not allowing any of what can be emotional or otherwise caused the spilling of our behavior, our political action and our interethnic relations in Croatia. I am not sure that when it comes to the media scene and in the light of some other political group in Croatia, that this was neither in the case of Montenegro nor in any other case, especially in relation to the Serbian Orthodox Church, including the debates that were not long in this assembly, and there have been many more lately than it should be. As far as the Prime Minister is concerned, he rightly mentioned the issues of a textbook in the Republic of Serbia and the way in which the Yugoslav languages are categorized in the textbook. I was alone when I pointed out the need to stop such a practice and to change it and I believe it will be. But here I would remind all of you colleagues and colleagues, that what has been done for the Cyrillic in Vukovar for 10 years, and then in the remains of Croatia is completely not civilized, not only is it illegal, not only unconstitutional but it is completely non-civil and poisoning and polluting relations in Vukovar both throughout Croatia and in relations between the regions. Matching a letter with a tank or with a bullet or with a criminal mind is the wrong thing to do. Where would someone come in, and there were people like that? [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66626	Thank you very much. The Honorable representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic will now speak on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66627	The Honorable Vice President of HS, the Honorable Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, respected colleagues and colleagues. At first, I can’t look back a little on a colleague of Pupovec who always criticises pulsism, talks about pulsism, and perhaps he’s quite the populist one who constantly points out some pulsism. Maybe it's populism actually giving up to one of your own voting bodies. I also find it shocking to hear that the representative at HS, even if it was Mr. Milorad Pupovac, has something against the will of the people. That's interesting to hear. Well, it's not really because he's chosen in one special way and that regardless of what maybe his national minority wants, he's going to be chosen anyway, so he doesn't have to care about the will of the people. But is it bad to hear from this pay phone? We are talking about a government report, the Honorable Prime Minister here told us about the situation in Croatia in an hour. I must say, at the beginning, the Honorable Prime Minister, many of the things that you have done in this pandemic and in general how you are leading Croatia, I will support or support and I think that even given the circumstances, Croatia may not have been able to manage badly in the given situation. However, there are some things that I can't agree with, of course. In the beginning, I'm going to confront you with an interesting fact about one book he edited, which is written by Boris Vujčić's current governor, now I don't know the year 2003 anymore. well, not long ago, and the book reads the EUR-o European Monetary Union and Croatia, on the side of 94th and 95th, is the following the thesis that the governor of the Croatian National Bank, who wants to introduce Croatia to the euro area together today, then wrote. The main reason for replacing the national currencies of EMU member states is then the most political act. This is primarily a political act and depends more on the idea of European unity than on the benefits and costs of giving up national currencies. Furthermore, since the EURo is the outcome of the political process on its fate is decided by citizens or voters. So these are two interesting thoughts and sentences that the current governor put in the book and I will, in fact, fully agree that the introduction of the EUR is not an act of some monetary stability or one tool that we will tomorrow help the Croatian economy, Croatian citizens, but exclusively the political act of an additional cohesion, unitaryism in the EU. Here I must immediately replicate to you or tell you you are here you said on several occasions today you have repeated that some have not tried at all to enter Croatia into the EU. And I didn't, for example. I personally tried, which I was one of the third that voted against Croatia's entry into the EU. So I voted against it. Not only me but a third of the citizens then voted in a referendum against Croatia's entry into the EU. So there's us quiet. As far as staying in the EU is concerned, however, I am not in favour of Croatia's exit from the EU, and we are in favour of constantly questioning Croatia's EU status. Let's keep doing some kind of cost-effectiveness study and see what this EU does to us or what it does to us. If at some point we see something moving us, more relationships than bringing us, so we're not crazy to stand there. So far, here's to the exact information that you've brought, or whatever it looks like we're doing well here, okay, and let's keep doing that. You said that the most sovereign act of building the Peljega Bridge is great, and that is, I welcome it and make it, building ports and harbors, and I welcome it. Just as it will be an act of sovereignty when you, as the Government of the Republic of Croatia, give your pain and help develop the Batisla project that we are developing right in Sibenik. I hope the Resort Minister and you will personally engage to put the project on its feet. And that's it, that's sovereignty. However, when you say that the Croatian people have already decided to join the eurozone by a referendum on EU accession, that is not water. This does not hold water because what anyone, but just anyone who is not politically dependent, will say to you at no time, not in one word, not once during the time of the EU accession campaign, has communicated that we will enter the eurozone. There was no communication, no one knew. I also faced the Deputy Prime Minister at the time one part of him was Radomer Cacic's mandate with the fact that he, or his colleague Vesna Pusic, was at the time scaring the pensioners that he would not get a pension. It was part of the campaign, and the other part of the campaign was that young people would be able to travel. And that was all about joining the EU. No one mentioned the euro area, or the euro area. Is that in the contract? It says. Do we have a problem now that we want to change that? We do. However, the legal experts we consulted said that although the international contract is extremely important, there is something behind it, and the Croatian Constitution has the constitution of each country individually. And by changing the Constitution we can change or allow Croatia to, but it is now very important for the Prime Minister to understand. So, if in a referendum on the change of the official monetary unit, the Croatian people said that it is personal for the EUR, and we Croatian sovereigns have no problem with that, if that is the will of the people. Just as I have no problem with being in the EU or not having that problem. But we believe that in giving up an important part of sovereignty, which is the monetary sovereignty that people should be asked directly or directly, or asked people in a referendum. And that's what it is, here's what I'd like if it happened and I'd even like it if you guys didn't do it this way by collecting signatures here if you'd just cut it off and say, okay, I'm going to take this formal step just so that what you're saying is most citizens for EURo, so let's be EURo. Some citizens in the referendum say it's EURo. Let the people decide. But okay, it'll either be one way or another. Either the people will succeed in asking for a referendum, or you will politically again, and here it may change your mind and then do it. But I don't prejudge the outcome of the referendum, anything is possible, anything is really possible, a very, very good response for people to collect signatures, here's a thank you to everyone who's signed so far. And one more thing, given that you can often boast that it is okay and legitimate how you worked on joining the EU as one of the negotiators if I am not mistaken, I can boast that I am in my working life, and not just today, actually working together, working, helping, consulting friends and some legal persons on EU projects. And that's where I did the big, big job, the big job. I don't know if any of my colleagues actually pulled that much money, or because of the withdrawal of that kind of money. So that's when you find yourself in a situation, that's where you use it maximum. And here I am proof of that. So I'll figure it out, I won't use all 20 minutes, but here's just a quick repeat. That the Governor of the National Bank of Croatia who unfortunately did not use all those instruments, tools, measures and actions that he had available to manage monetary flows in Croatia already in 2003 said that the political act was the introduction of the euro and that, given that it is a political process, it is decided by citizens or voters, page 94, page 95, the book is called Euro – the European Monetary Union and Croatia, Boris Vujčić, editor. Dear President of the Croatian Government, in everything that's good to do, we will support you and in everything we feel, we think we're losing sovereignty, the sovereignty of our country, of course we won't. Here with all our powers we Croatian sovereigns will do absolutely anything, absolutely anything to prevent the euro from being introduced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66628	The next Club of Representatives will be that Club Mosta and time will be shared by respected representatives Bozo Petrov and respected representative Miletic. First of all, Honorable Representative Bozo Petrov, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66629	Dear colleagues, fellow MPs, Honorable Prime Minister. As I announced, we got a version or picture of Croatia as the government sees it and to sum it up, it looks like this. In Croatia everything grows, in Croatia all flowers and, along the way, Croatia is extinct. That's the conclusion of today's hourly report. Now, there's an updated version with complete data. In addition to these measures presented by the Government, we currently have in Croatia official inflation 3.3% with the fact that those who go to the store know that basic food prices have jumped by 10%, energy prices and up to 20% this year, and also, over the last year, we have a 150 kuna minimum wage growth, a 250 kuna media salary growth, a 500 kuna living cost increase. Also for the fifth year in a row, we are still in the same, almost the same place, in order of the world's economies, the last, last places, it speaks of continuity. Also, most people have moved out of Croatia and Lithuania as far as EU members are concerned. Where exactly does this show the perspective or happiness of Croatia? I don't know if she might be seen in a farm where the law was passed three years ago in order to make land easier and then still stands 500 000 hectares of unused agricultural land. Maybe in that. Could it be seen in the health sector where billions of debt are still generated, where reform is promised, today we're still on promise, we have some kind of PR watches that could be made. Maybe you can see it in the pension system, I don't know. I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I... the pension column, strengthening the I.P. to reduce the current budget gap by strengthening the long-term hole in that same budget, I don't know. Maybe in the fight against corruption. Here's the final example of this man who, before he took office, admitted that he was in a conflict of interest and signed it. Honestly, it's not my goal to criticize, it's my goal to really change things. Are certain things changing or are certain things done? I think so. Is that enough? It's not. We can do a lot more. You can do a lot more. As for the cost of living rise, statistics speak of 3.3%. The numbers in the stores tell you a lot more and I'm curious what the numbering is for? What's the point? Is the goal perhaps to meet the conditions for the euro? I don't know, you should explain. Or you go along that saying “do not trust your eyes, believe me”, go to the store, ask salesgirls, sellers to tell you the prices of oil, flour, milk, sugar a year ago and today in stores. Before I warn of the devastating numbers in terms of wages, I really ask you, don't mention the average term "average salary in Croatia" because that's how you deceive people. I think, Mr. President, you know very well how to account for the average salary in Croatia. The average salary seems to be when someone receives 22,000 and the other two receive 4000 kuna, that they receive 30 000 kunas together and each of them by an average of 10,000. Is that the average salary? Is it really two out of 4,000 kunas receiving 10,000 kuna a month? No, they're not. These two are receiving a minimumer that isn't enough to live. So please, use the term media pay or what exactly pay is received by most people in Croatia, millions of millions and 590 000 currently employed? Media pay has grown 250 kuna in the last year. It's 6,000 today. The minimum wage has grown to 150 kuna. We're talking about a miserable increase of 0.4%. As your basic food prices rise by almost 10%. The minimum consumer basket this year is 7800 kuna. Not only did the minimum consumer basket grow more than wages, media and minimum, this data says it is media, it is the most frequent salary in Croatia, 34% less than the minimum consumer basket. Minimal. We're not even talking about the cost of living, we're not talking about education or the possibility of education, or the apartment, the loan for the apartment, the loan for the car, what you need to go to the store, there's not enough. As for the minimum cost of living, the last time they calculated you 10 years ago. And in that calculation 10 years ago, the minimum cost of life was 6 700 kuna and it was not included in the war for car or war for apartment or education, or anything. 6 700 kuna 10 years ago. Today we say that millions of people receive less pay than the minimum cost of living calculated 10 years ago. Are you aware of the cataclysm? Are you aware of the risks of poverty or poverty in Croatia? That's the look. And when we talk about the poverty risk threshold, then we need to know that the State Statistics Institute calculated the risk to poverty in 2018. It's 5300 kuna 3 years ago. 5 300 kuna, today the Prime Minister said that 51,000 people receive a minimum of 3400 kuna. The poverty threshold is 5,300 kuna. Add inflation, price growth and the rest of what happened within a year, that means that today, millions of people in Croatia with the most frequent salary are on the poverty threshold, most of the employees on the poverty threshold, and those 50,000 are long drowned in poverty. That's what needs to be changed. When we talk about a yearbook of global competitiveness, when we talk about our last places, and that's a fact, so he came out this year. We are side by side with Mongolia and Botswana, we grew up by one place because they put Botswana into that competitiveness test this year, so instead of 60, 59, Mongolia and Botswana we are together. The last of all EU members. And when I say that everything seems to be growing, only the state is dying out, then it turns out that over the last 8 years, more people have moved out of Croatia than during the 45 years of communist dictatorship. Then, in these 45 years, 350 thousand have gone away, in these 8 years 370 thousand, and some research says that they are not leaving just because of their wages, they are leaving because of the sense of injustice in society, and even more devastating are the results of recent research that tell you that as more people move out of Croatia, that level of corruption in Croatia is growing, which is the worst, and this is seen by the number of affairs as exponentially growing. I could talk a lot about what's been promised since last year, from great social justice, 0 kuna, from strengthening the health system, 0. From equal opportunities to all, unfortunately nothing, from agriculture, nothing. Yeah, some things have been done. Jobs were preserved, although our public debt exploded, the Immunological Institute was created, and that was a good thing, but what I said was a real picture of Croatia and it did not change. And what I expect from the Prime Minister and the Government is to be with people when it's hard for the state to carry some of the burden and financial, and not just to kill the citizens. To tell us the truth and even when it is painful because only the truth can ultimately allow us to all have such a chance in some newer Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66630	A respected representative, Marin Miletic, will continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66631	The Honorable Vice President of HS, Mr. Reiner, Mr. Bukarica, the Honorable Prime Minister and the Honored Ministers. Prime Minister, first of all, I'd like to set up one of my starting points for this speech, and you might be able to listen to me, something. You are not my enemy, I have no enemies here among my colleagues. I know you like hacks, I hear you're coming to Opatija and I'm an active athlete, I play basketball. We athletes want to win, we want to do our best, we do our best, we burn, but we don't look at opposing enemy teams. We don't look at human enemies and now that we've solved it, then I can move on. That's how I look at all my colleagues. So from left to, I don't know, to right. I listened very carefully to you talking and forgive me, after about 35 minutes I had to go to the club and have a full glass of green tea, maybe I could have an extra espresso because I was snuck up, you snuck me in, Prime Minister. The story, your attitude, your mummies, your gesticulation, your tone of voice, it's got me swept away. It may not be bad sometimes, but in a situation where our Croatian ship is still playing on many holes, it seems to me that it is not very wise to play classics, eat strawberries, if there is money for some champagne and then convince, convince the entire crew and passengers that everything is just fine. And it's not all right. You've been in power for five years, which is quite enough time and some of the slowest governments to show the results of their governance. I, of course, will not praise you as an opposition, there are colleagues from the HDZ, they will commend you all you need and finally, we always sort of account for the citizens of Croatia. But what are the results of government? Prime Minister, demographics? People are leaving our country mass. We as a people disappear and if someone were to listen here ruling when they speak or speak to you today, you would say, God, this is a fantastic country to live, but when you descend among the people, when you walk along the streets side by side with the people, then you see that there are no flowers in that company. We see that only from 2011 to today, almost 250 thousand of our citizens have left the country. Well, don't go away from where you're well. Those who are among the smartest went away, those who are among the most creative, many honest workers who couldn't provide their daily bread went away, we should change that. I don't want you with statistics right now, there's a lot of it, but what's really important to me is that we repeat here to all of us and the Croatian public. If we continue this way with the birth rate and mortality and this trend of departure from Croatia is the following, in just 80 years. By natural downfall, Croatia will lose all its working active population, we currently have it if I read 1.6 million well and we have to do this job. Covid, here's the Prime Minister. I'm going to give you a little commendation. So thank you for not succumbing to the scarecrows and taking Croatia to some new lockdown that brings immeasurable damage and consequences throughout society and for the psychophysical health of the citizens, but also for the destruction of the entire economy, and we will only see what our little lockdown will be like as well. That's what epidemiologist Dr. Junadi of Stanford is talking about. You've done what you could and should have done, you've secured a vaccine for all citizens who want to be vaccinated, you're always talking about the necessary protection of old, powerless, threatening, all endangered groups. All the measures that the state imposes can prevent the rate of spread of the virus, they say up to 20% maximum, but we can't stop the virus, it will have to go through the population, we can't escape it, we can't hide somewhere, so we have to keep our older, sick, powerless, vulnerable groups, but we can't escape, we have to keep living. What I'd like for the prime minister is that our people are not divided into vaccinated and unvaccinated, that we don't have double criteria when we know, here it is again evident that the vaccines are passing the virus, and we're testing just unvaccinated. I wish people weren't being blackmailed. You're a Democrats, you do what you need to do for people, so people aren't being blackmailed with vaccines so they can move forward and go to work, do some of their daily tasks. I would also like to hear more clearly how many of us are over and I would like clearer research on cellular immunity if we know that according to the February 26% of the population of Zagreb, the covid is so said to be relevant. And we had a third wave, so the fourth wave, what is the number of the population in our country that's over the covid, can we know this truth? You give us information and then you shut up all the whispering and some I don't know the crazy speeches. Can we find out how many newly infected, watch out, and if they're over covid, how many newly infected that they've been over a covid or that they've been vaccinated once or twice, that's a legitimate question and that they ended up on a respirator or, unfortunately, God didn't die. Those are legitimate questions. Corruption. I don't want to talk about it. We all know that we haven't moved from the bottom of the EU or this indicator. In fact, we're the only leaders in this indicator. Although GDP is highly likely to reach pre-pandemic levels relatively quickly, there is not a single country that does not record the same trends so that we cannot in any way consider it to be only a government, but what is the fact that we are facing inflation and the resulting rise in interest rates, which is a direct consequence of printing money during the pandemic. I listened to you prime minister when, Prime Minister, when you told the wingman how you were, I wrote down here... to which you send a message to the public, making an impression, and you're good at it, you're good at it, so how great everything is and how you manage the country successfully. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] But the prime minister's minimum wage is not a good and encouraging measure for those who barely survive in the market, so you push them towards the collapse of business. The direction to be taken is to dissipate contributions and make everything grow. So it's not really a question of set goals, but it's a question of the general quality of the objectives set. Reforms, which we have reform, which are actually carried out from the beginning, so I'm not sure I don't think we have any. The public administration of the reform was announced as early as 2019. We need to redesign the pay system and put the work results into focus. Those who work, who do well and well, then reward them and raise them, so we want an efficient public administration. So, health debts, debt generation, not restoring Zagreb, Banovina, there are many difficulties to talk about, I could talk about the whole speech like this. But Prime Minister I would, I'm an incurable optimist and I would like to end this speech positively. So, I said you weren't here once, I'm here to try the Bridge, and I'll do anything to win and we'll come, to take responsibility for the Croatian people, but you're also my prime minister, and I have no other prime minister. So you're the ones who have the legitimacy to lead this country and you can't take the fate of this nation. The growth of the people is your growth, the fall of the people is your fall. If the people are hungry you won't be happy in your home, if the people are digging through the bays you won't be happy, if the people leave our country you won't be happy to take over all the governing empires of this world, if the people are unhappy and you will be unhappy, we will be unhappy here and therefore we don't have to blindly follow Brussels. The strategy that we bring can be our strategy, the euro can be introduced when it suits us, the dynamics of the transition to the green economy is needed, but let's introduce it when it suits us. We need to know more strongly and courageously, not just to look at our own interest or ambition, but to the interest of the people we serve and for whom we are here where we are. Here's an example of not implementing the Venice Commission's recommendations on how to carry out the referendum, you've shown that you can tap your hand on the table and ignore the recommendations that come from outside. I call on you to do this more often, and when it comes to positive examples of not following blindly everything the EU requires. We're a small nation, but we don't have to bend our heads in front of anyone. We are a small people, here are the boys who defended this country in '91, so we didn't say they were big on the other side, 40-ton beast tank, so we'll back off than Marko Babic in his shoes and jeans stopped on the Trpinjska road and said something about the past, something like that. We're a small people, but I'm sure we can all be braver together, I'm sure we can protect our national interests more, and I'm convinced the Prime Minister that we can do more, protect our country and our people so that we don't get out, that people stay here on their own because of all our yarns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66632	The next club of MPs will be that of HSS and RF, and time will be shared by respected representative Katarina Peovic and representative Kreso Beljak. First of all, it seems to me to be a respected representative... Col. Martincevic gave up, so now you'll probably be the one, the respected representative Beljak first. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66633	Dear Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, the Honorable Vice-President of the Assembly, allow me to present the position of the Club of Assembly Representatives of the HSS and the RF. At first I will say that this report consisted of much more plans, much less realization, and yet the name of the document is the item of the agenda report, not the work plan. But let's get going, as far as finance goes, I'm going to refer to what you've said and what I've been doing as some hints, you said that the economic crisis is the worst in the last 100 years, that you believe and you know a little bit, you know, there's been a lot of worse crises in the last 100 years, it's been World War I, World War II, etc., so it's a big crisis, but it's the biggest one in the last 100 years, it's not. Public debt is reduced and it is positive, but if you look at it on the other hand and it does not have to be so positive because it is reduced, but at the same time there is no big state investment or there is not enough large state investment, and that is one reason for the reduction of the total debt. The number of employees is just statistics, I think that colleague Peovic who I'm here later will arrive, but I believe you'll let her talk for the last five minutes, talk more about it, so. Social security or solidarity, what you were talking about is something that I should be doing politics in my opinion, but then what we're talking about is some kind of privatisation and some stuff that's being pushed under, under the table, about outsiders and stuff like that, and then it has nothing to do with strengthening social security or strengthening solidarity. You were also talking about the Immunological Institute, and I'm very skeptical about it, and I think it's past time, and I hope I'm wrong. A successful tourist season should not be slow about it, but I think personally, and the fact is that it is not a well-deserved Croatian government nor measures but simply our geographical position or even this pandemic crisis which is a good part of the tourists who would otherwise have chosen Croatia as a country that is within the EU where it is much simpler even by car to come, so that the accident in principle saved us a large part of the tourist season, but okay, thank God it was. As far as the big projects are concerned, I don't think there's only one person in this assembly but nobody in Croatia who wouldn't welcome the project of realising the Pelješki Bridge, the Istrian Ipsilon, too, breaking through the Učka tunnel, the Svilaj Bridge, and all other things, and I think that anyone well-meaning any project that is considered and must consider it positive, and in any case it is positive and it is. As far as education is concerned, I have to thank you, but also to my fellow educators for having successfully spent the school year under these conditions and unfortunately it has been going on, but all of this has somehow been followed so that there are no too many problems and you can certainly credit it in some way as a credit that it could have been better can always be better. The scholarships you've been saying you've increased, I'm afraid they're not coordinated with the labour market, I'm afraid there's too little coordination between the labour market itself and the need for certain jobs or certain occupations, and there's a huge gap of interest and the need to import labour, and on the other hand we still have people who have no place to work in Croatia with completed schools, and then go outside. The quality of the population or the quality structure of the population in terms of education etc., etc., if this were better corrected or coordinated, I think the results would be much better. The status of the educators themselves has been somewhat improved and this cannot be disputed either, but not enough. What is lacking in educational staff not only in the past 30 years but in the past 30 years, and I am speaking from experience, that is, authority. So, a teacher, teacher and teacher without authority cannot do their job in the way that you should especially do it when some, not some, but more and more parents allow you to correct or threaten, etc., setting yourself above teachers, that state should not allow. You were talking about agriculture and food self-sufficiency. Listen, one theory is, another is practice, we live in the EU, we live in a time of globalisation, I'm afraid we're going to have a very difficult time with all the efforts that we would possibly do or do exactly what you were talking about, I think it's a fairy tale. As for food production, so I don't know what to say, that should be our theme, but I think we're way below the capacity we could do. But there is again a rise in energy prices that have been particularly affected by agricultural producers, and this is what makes plans for the self-sufficiency of food production or agriculture impossible. You said Croatia is a safe country. Yes, the fact is, when we compare ourselves with other countries, I think we are not only safe but very safe country in terms of the rest of Europe and the world, so, yes, but that's not something new except during the war there was not much more uncertainty. What you forgot to say, which is the problem, is the police's behaviour on our external borders towards BiH, especially the attitude towards migrants. This is one topic that I think you should discuss at higher levels because this border is the EU border not only of Croatia. And the fact is that these criticisms coming from the EU should not apply to criticism solely to our police forces but to the European border protection system because that is the European border, not only Croatia. Economy and sustainable development, energy and self-sustainability in the crisis, I will not return but the fact is that we missed the train that we could secure by selling INU, there's Petrochemia, there's oil wells, gas wells, etc., and now we're depending on others. Whatever terminals we did or any plans we could have been at least 70, 80% self-sustainable about energy. Demography and demographic policy, let's wait for the census results. You've talked a lot about demographic measures, looking at it as a profession, looking at what's going on in other countries, I think our demographic image is like that no matter what demographic measures we're taking, that the demographic image isn't going to get better, but we're all going to have to figure it out sooner or later, and Professor Sterc, who talked about it two or three weeks ago, seems to me, that the only way to fix our demographic age structure of the population is to move in. I hope that, too, it should be thought that this immigration should be controlled in order for the population who will move to Croatia to be integrated as soon as possible or not to say uglyly assimilated to Croatian ethnic tissue or to the Croatian people. As far as the waste is concerned. That's a huge problem. That's what I'm dealing with, and I've been meeting as the mayor's duty holder. I'm watching what's going on in Zagreb. I'm watching what's happening in Dalmatia. Everywhere I travel, and I simply don't understand why I don't go to Austria or Bavaria, which has this problem solved at the world's highest level and simply prescribe these laws. Everything else is inventing hot water for me absolutely, absolutely unnecessary. State property, still unfortunately not weak but almost in no way valorised, 30 years after taking over state property and due to the slow nature of the administration and due to the contradictory laws that need to be corrected to speed up the whole process because these properties are dead capital that unfortunately piles up new losses instead of being reversed. Here I will refer to the Law on Reconstruction after an earthquake which is also a hostage in some way the slowness of bureaucracy or conflicting laws. With the best will, everything has been going on for two years, and I hope it speeds up that you're going to work on it even more. In healthcare, given that most of this pandemic crisis has been carried out on their backs by healthcare professionals, they have been increased wages, they have increased certain conditions but given the circumstances in which they work, given the demand in other countries that are also affected, I think it is very, very little. As far as the government's behaviour in the Covid crisis is concerned, I wouldn't have had too many objections if I had them at all. There are some contradictory things, but all of you, all of us, or the whole world, go into principle. We have a variety of examples, and I don't think we should further, further poison us from the opposition, but support in principle and see what happens next. Justice. Is Croatia a fair country? It's not a fair country, and today you have people who are going to end up in prison for minor things, for begging, and you have extra criminals who have stolen billions, and they don't have anything or delay. So we can't talk about being a fair country. There is a need for radical reforms, which unfortunately are not in sight. And you talked to the Prime Minister about empowering the state, and I think there's a questionable ideological definition, but we wouldn't be talking about it now because the state is still weak, and I think it's never weaker about the whole situation. I welcome the plan to fight corruption, but I will also point out that corruption has been found in the meantime, has risen to a higher level despite a policy fight against corruption that is undeniable. It rose to the level of networking of lower structures which, by means of corruption or association, do not express themselves, bypass politicians through the joint plan. So, you have networked designers, supervision, performer who bypasses politics in order to get a job, and that's one problem, one new dimension that goes along with some politicians who have said that many countries, that all countries have their own mafia but that only in Croatia the mafia has its own state. It needs to be very, very careful, so corruption has gotten out of politics, is being pulled out and entered into a new level that no longer has so much to do with politics or has less and less connections. Furthermore, the strategy you spoke about was adopted in the assembly but was passed for 30 years and was passed by most votes, not by consensus of all parties. And that's what you told the Prime Minister that I was pulling a parallel to what you were talking about Eurosceptics about people who would now be doing referendums for the EURo. So the strategy should have been adopted at least 2/3 of the time, and then in 30 years, no one would have thought of it changing, etc., but okay, at least it was passed, so we'll see what's going to happen about it. As far as regional development is concerned about the Slavonia project, I've been going around a lot of people who even favor you, not a word other than those who have taken direct advantage of this project, so I couldn't praise it. About the media, you wouldn't spend too many words, the situation is catastrophic, the HRT situation is never worse. Foreign and European affairs, I must therefore support all the efforts to introduce the EUR, and you are quite right about what you said, it is a decision that should not be compromised, it is a civilizational achievement with a number of positive things that you have spoken of that I support and as regards, of course, entering the Schengen area and, of course, the last things that have happened, which is the abolition of visas that put us in line with the most developed or most secure of all, the most desirable partners of the world's leading force. U.S.A. And finally, I have to tell the Prime Minister that unlike the last time, you did once, but you mentioned that there were mistakes that were personally a major shift for me, and then neither I as an opposition politician can be against everything, and from this statement you saw that I didn't, so we have to be correct that mistakes were admitted anyway because of course who's doing this mistake. I also have to say that the number of affairs in the past year has been significantly smaller than in the past period and that's a positive thing, it's, of course, ruined your judgment by the parties, but it's so that you can't escape the same way I can through life from some things that are being questioned who is responsible or not, but that's so. The conduct in this crisis that has been going on for almost two years now speaks of that no one normal in this country, no well-intentioned one can dispute that you have done it together all together as prime minister in an unsatisfactory way and we must simply admit it and I admit it. In conclusion, we as an opposition club, of course, cannot vote for your report for pragmatic and political reasons. Whether we're against it, whether we're gonna be abstentions or we're gonna be disfellowshipped from the vote, we're gonna agree on that later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66634	Thank you. A respected representative, Katarina Peovic, will continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66635	Thank you, everyone. I'd just point out that we have a slightly different attitude towards the euro, but here it won't be the subject of my exposure. Someone here said from previous speakers that this was a beautiful report, I wouldn't say, I would even say it wasn't. If you listen carefully to the Prime Minister and his ministers then it becomes clear to you that they are not making any promises and they are doing so, that is the problem with this report. But what didn't surprise me in particular in this report is that yesterday we announced what the prime minister here did and that, in these few days, the amount of minimum salary for next year's regulation, and that's the prime minister here, I think many of them have missed the announcement. That information as far as I know we haven't had before, so there's a premiere like this, so 350 kuna raises, so I'd like to highlight it in my presentation briefly. So 350 kuna raises is again you can play with statistics so 100% more than last year and more than that, but that's not enough. What does 350 kuna mean to someone who has 4,300 kunas? It's about workers who work and live in poverty. What's particularly problematic is that it's not any beauty, but it's a real fulfillment of the promised one. So the government in the NPOO also announced that the minimum wage would be 50% of this average and 60% of the media salary, and that as far as it seems to me now, that's the amount. When you set a scale so low it's really easy to reach, but what you should say is that the minimum wage in this volume that now existed only meets 25% of needs means the living needs of monthly workers. Considering that, it becomes clear to us that an increase of up to 5,000 kuna would be insufficient, let alone an increase of 350 kuna. The workers who work on the minimal are actually social cases, they're signs below the poverty threshold and actually what's being established here is that when you put such a scale just don't have to do much. What we asked at the press conference yesterday, and what I will do tomorrow and pass on about the unions themselves, we will ask Minister Aladrović who likes to use that term to stop using the term with dignity in the context of minimum wage because the minimum wage is all but unworthy. She's not even enough for basic needs. And that's why we've also made a request to the government that's been refused to start counting on the DZS to start calculating what the minimum costs are to figure out where we're going between minimum wage and minimum wage amounts and what would be the minimum wage of a decent salary, or that salary that would cover the cost of living. I'm going to say just a few more things that we've got here in the form of statistics why it's problematic such a phrase of statistics, because as much as I think we're criticising here right now and being strong government critics we have to admit that HDZ rating is very good, but partly because data is interpreted in one way that corresponds to HDZ. So here the prime minister said that the unemployment rate fell from 13% to 7% if I caught it well, but still not mentioned in reducing the unemployment of the eviction fact, otherwise the reduction in unemployment rate was record in 2019. when it was and a record actually moving out. We have 14% of the working-age population evicted, the employment rate is indicative of neither the prime minister nor Minister Aladrovic. There is something about the employment rate in the NPOO, and I can say quite a bit from a perspective that is correct and is really standing there, that we have one of the lowest employment rates in the EU, and I will stress that only Spain, Italy, Greece are below us. Once again, when an increase in the number of employees is mentioned, such a positive perspective stems from the number of all insurance companies, that is where seasonal workers count, foreign workers who are due to.../incomprehensible/... total liberalisation means imports of labour have increased their number.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66636	Thank you. Let's move on. Now it's an honorary colleague of Anka Mrak-Taritash's on behalf of the Center and GLAS Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66637	Thank you very much, esteemed president of HS, the Honorable Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I listened carefully to the opening statement of our prime minister, and at one point I felt as if in that joke when the husband asked the woman, the woman, did you trust my words or my eyes, exactly how I felt, and then I looked at some colleagues sitting on the right side, now, these assemblies and those who were the greatest worshipers and who were the greatest followers and followers of Mr. Plenkovic's character and works, they gave up listening and were on their smartphones, but here we are. By listening to Prime Minister Plenkovic, one might think that we live in Switzerland, that all is well, it was successfully done, we faced all the challenges best possible. I do not live in that country, live in Croatia, and as Mr. Plenkovic, or our prime minister, said, I will try responsibly and seriously refer to several topics in which things are not so brilliant and where the government has not done a good job. Unfortunately, it is not about some side issues so that we can overlook them but rather about the key topics for our lives. Otherwise, when you watch the report a little bit, the report on the work of the government, about three reports were wishes and greetings or what they would like and what they would like, but what is there. The first topic I'm going to look back on is the crown, Covid-19. We can lie to ourselves unconsciously and claim that the government did everything it could and that, under the circumstances, we were successful. The truth isn't like that. The situation is not good anywhere in the world and no one expects us to have any sick or dead. No one expects that there is a magic wand that will solve all this, but dear Prime Minister Plenkovic, we are in this, as well as everyone else among the worst in the EU, and these ruthless statistics and figures that compare us with others, show the right situation and talk about the success of the government's work. We are the third of the end of the Union by the number of people vaccinated. Only Romania and Bulgaria are behind us, unfortunately our usual society. I ask again, why is that this time too? You're announcing unusual, chaotic and suspicious health reforms, and you haven't been able to do the most important job since you've been prime minister. I repeat, the most important job since you've been prime minister, to vaccinate people. We can say that people have all kinds of excuses, that's true and many are unreasonable, they can agree with that. But where was your system? Where was your prevention, and where was your education? Where, in the end, there are some serious measures that would encourage people to be vaccinated. The situation is as clear as day. Too many people don't want to be vaccinated. What have you done, Prime Minister, to change that? If we're judging by the results, nothing. Certainly not enough. You can talk about what you want, about the balance between measures and free life, about the season that saved us, about the timely and adequate response, and the result at the end of the day is the real truth, and the truth is that we're disastrously bad at that most important part of the Corona job. What we are unfortunately at the top of the EU ranking and the number of deaths per million inhabitants. There are 8 of the 27 countries, and I have to say, however difficult it sounds, that's where badly done work is unfortunately measured in life, in the most important job you've had in this term, the result is pure disaster. So I look at some other countries, I like to compare myself in a number of things and look always at countries there, Scandinavia, and especially about what kind of core business was to me and what I like, therefore, planning, sustainable development and a series of things. I've been looking at a little bit of what the Mediterranean countries are doing here, and I'm kind of sure that we are, by our own vocation, in a way similar to some other way, to a lot of the Mediterranean, not to go into it now, the Catholic world and everything else, and then when I see what, where the Mediterranean countries are by splitness, and where we are, catch me really such a small force and what's the key question, why? So when we talk about the key question why, then there's a way to step forward, and now the situation is bad and I'm afraid, I don't want to be an ugly prognostic, but it's only going to be worse. The second topic I want to talk about is the price of fuel. It's true, the government limited the price. Great. But again, I wonder, why do we have record fuel prices even though the barrel is less than $90? Why do we have a higher price of gasoline and diesel than when the barrel cost $140 and then the most important question, why the price in Croatia is higher than in any country around us. I wonder if this has anything to do with any cases that just these days come to judgment? Does this have anything to do with handing it over to the INA MOL, which was done by your former president and by your people with whom none of you are now, today, any more connected. It doesn't even matter to itself from that time. The Croatian market is clear and clothes the company from the neighbouring country which, under suspicious circumstances, has come under the absolute management of the INA, which, under suspicious circumstances, manages and in close contact with the regime of Viktor Orban. Are they allowed to do whatever they want in Croatia? Doing what I can't do anywhere else and having margins they don't have anywhere else. I don't know the answers to those questions, but you, Prime Minister Plenkovic, might know. What I know is that Croatian citizens pay their fuel more than citizens of any country in the neighborhood. When? During your government. The recovery after the earthquake is very difficult to mention, or rather not to mention. It's a complete fiasco in every way. First it took you months to pass the law, and then it took you a year to find that the law is so bad that it's inconclusive, and now you're going to cut the ministry's budget by 200 million kuna because you're under quotes, saving it to rebuild. It's absurd, it's messing with people. It's not politics and state-leading. You, Prime Minister, were very angry with me when I said you were creating a containerland in Banja/Banovina, that I could say something like that in the first place, and I wish you were right and I was wrong. That those were really too heavy words, but unfortunately they weren't. People go into another winter in containers, and nothing happens. You forgot Zagreb, you forgot Banija/Banovina and since the renovation, as it was set unfortunately there will be nothing. The law that you've passed, and now you're changing it, it's like someone's tricking you. Someone wrote the law somewhere and gave it to the Ministry. Instead of passing a law that facilitates work, which speeds up procedures, a law has been passed to yourself and restores your legs. The European money for the reconstruction of public buildings has been on account since the beginning of the year and should be spent within 18 months. It would be a shame if we had one kuna or one euro to pay back. You haven't been able to start any single reform, you're just announcing them, as they were said, and you haven't done anything. One of these is judicial reform. We are a country with the least confidence in the judiciary in the EU, among citizens, among companies, and what needs to be pointed out is among the judges themselves. The judges themselves say in research, more than half of them, that it is progressing according to criteria that have nothing to do with expertise and knowledge. We have a huge number of backlogs, we have long-term procedures, we have the second largest number of judges per capita in the Union, and we invest a lot more than most others in terms of GDP. You're not even the principle of this problem. You haven't done anything all these years by him, the only thing that's happened is an additional violation of the image of the judiciary through unnecessary gossip about the election of the Supreme Court president. Instead of sending a message, even symbolic, but important, that there was a willingness to change, instead of a message, that we realized that this could not go on, again by unnecessary politicization, partying and delaying the new mud on our damaged and weakened judiciary. You threw your paw and the HRT. After the former director ended up in Remetinco, you proposed for a new man with a clear and strong conflict of interest. Why? Couldn't that have been different? You always insist on the candidates with the butter on their heads, I guess you can control them. Our colleagues and colleagues came out with excuses that it was almost a 10-year-old law passed by the government, let the government pass. So, Prime Minister, who told you not to change that law? Of course, no one. You haven't done your job yourself, but even if you haven't changed that bad law, which you're now getting out of, what nobody really imposed, and even by that law, to choose from 13 candidates, which one? The most troublesome one. No one forced you to do that. You made up your own mind. Have you done anything about the lack of labour? Has Croatia finally started to create a reasonable and planned policy on the issue? It's not. On the one hand, we need to seriously activate all those people we have for any reason that are not involved in the world of work, which we might be. Requalifications, lifelong education, active engagement on the issue, nothing. We have no idea about any thoughtful and planned immigration policy. Of course, we can't let anyone into the country without criteria and by the law, there's no dispute about it, but we need people for construction, for tourism and for various other areas, and this problem will only grow, it won't become smaller, it will become more and more serious and more. Our own people are going to a better life, and even from neighboring countries, we can no longer expect the flow of workers as we once did. What did you do about it? Nothing. The debt to the majors is in the explosion again. You can't find a permanent and over-resolved solution to that problem. The Minister of Health proposes some kind of god-awful reform, and the reform consists of increasing the money given to citizens and reducing the services they receive for that money. It's not about billions of people in our health that leaks every day, like. water from the pipe in Zagreb. What is happening with the implementation of the Low Carbon Development Strategy, which should be the basis for plans to use renewable energy sources. Even for the EU's Recovery and Resistance Plan, the Commission has recommended that members put their focus on investing in renewable energy and digital technologies. This government doesn't know or may have a little bit more to do than come up with plans to invest in green technology and with European money in this crisis better, I'm afraid we're not counting. A team taking into account that we are also in the last place in the EU, as much as our prime minister tried to blur it out. Will we even be able to catch a connection to the European Green Plan? Will he, if we're going to make this unique and perhaps the last chance to catch a connection with developed countries again? We, Romania and the Bulgarian team from the EU donkey bench. In all the most important jobs we should or should have done, we are extremely unsuccessful. It's facts and it's the whole truth. As the prime minister pointed out in one part of his presentation the need for a critical opinion on education, we absolutely did not see it in his presentation, but we have a great news report. One big news for our budget that is richer for 14 million kuna due to the ruling on corruption of the premium is gone, but there are his deputies, or vice presidents, for, for the foreigners, your stranger and you can now consider reducing taxes on hygienic pads and tampons. One reasonable proposal that would really help all women in Croatia, which you have been blaspheming for years. And it is very sad that one small, reasonable requirement is rejected by adding one item to the VAT Act, and it would help all women in Croatia who account for 51% and make up 51% of the electoral body. So at least a handful reduced the problem of menstrual poverty facing hundreds of thousands of girls and women in our country. But no, you don't want to do that either, you're still sending your colleagues to defend indefensibly some ridiculous and poor arguments. A secretary of state who's so embarrassed that I admit that he hopes his wife and daughters don't look at him. At least a moment of some human honesty in this assembly. I do not, my dear colleagues and colleagues, have any need to submit this law anywhere in my name and name. I have no need to accept the opposition proposal because it would be good if you once accepted the opposition proposal because our Prime Minister Plenkovic behaves if he accepted it in order to get the crown off his head. So this way I say, Your Honor, Prime Minister, if you would like to propose, we would be very happy to accept it, but please suggest something that will be of benefit. Let's finally do something right from the beginning to the end because with the crown, the vaccination, the health care, the restoration, the reform, the labour market, the green transition, and in fact everything that you've accepted, you haven't succeeded, no matter how long and hard you'd lie to yourself, but unfortunately all of us together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66638	We will now go to the seventh debate on behalf of the Social Democrats Club will speak to a respected colleague, Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66639	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Deputy Prime Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, I would like to tell you about a phenomenal place to live about Croatia, as some government ministers now call it. And before we risk being re-ruled, accusing us of being an unconstructive opposition, unfortunately, I have to conclude that we can talk about a lot of negative things and we have to talk because it's our duty to be corrective, to encourage for the better, but it seems to me that sometimes we fight the windmills as one knight in the classics of world literature. As well as the prime minister, I will share my presentation in several segments on the state of the Croatian society I want to talk about. First it's corruption. Corruption is a disease that devours every society, democratic society, and unfortunately Croatia in particular. According to the Transparency International Corruption Perception Index for 2020, we have achieved 47 out of 100 points and are taking 18 places in the EU and 63 in the world. Is this satisfying a phenomenal place to live? I don't think so. We have also witnessed this year a final judgment by a party who is behind the helm of this country. If we talk about trust in institutions above all government, and then everything else we can reconcile the fact that our party, the main party of the current government, is being charged with power, not accused, but convicted of corruption and has to pay the penalty in that name. It is certainly not something that will encourage citizens to trust politicians, governments, government institutions or state institutions, etc. Especially given what I just said, we brought it in, that is, we discussed a strategy to prevent corruption proposed by you, imagine no other party down that was convicted of corruption. It kind of reminds me of that people's, cadiya's suing you, the cadiya's judging you, and I might have dared to say that anyone who knows about corruption best than HDZ can suggest a strategy to prevent it. As regards the rule of law in the Republic of Croatia, which is again a particularly painful point, the European Commission's special report on the subject, which was published in July in a segment relating to the functioning of judicial systems against corruption and freedom and pluralism, states that the level of perceived independence of the judiciary in the public has deteriorated and remains the lowest in the EU in Croatia. When you put that in perspective of this verdict, I think it's all clear. Information and communication technologies for the management of subjects and electronic communication remain among the less developed in the EU, and the administrative capacity of the state's attorney's office is limited due to lack of human resources. The report also said that the length of proceedings was reduced in second-degree courts compared to the previous report, but mainly increased to first-degree and remained among the longest in the EU. If I were to sum up the situation in the judiciary and trust in the institutions, I'd say we're still very bad. The second segment I want to look back on is pandemic and healthcare, or health system. We have witnessed the past days and weeks of travesty since the bickering of certain members of the government's council and then the governments themselves who can't agree on anything. If this will instill any confidence in institutions that should lead the fight against the pandemic, I think that we have little credibility, or that you have managed to completely destroy this little credibility. The split of Croatian citizens remains among the lower in the EU, but I find the reasons for this in two reasons. One is the one I just mentioned, so the institutions have not yet agreed with themselves that the pandemic should be fought, and the other is the fiasco of the government's vaccination campaign and the fiasco of the education of vaccination. So, if the campaign comes down to badges, which is more or less "Think of Others, Vaccinate" then it's really devastating for one government, a serious government, or which at least predicates to be a serious government and to fight against such a severe pandemic that the world has long not remembered. Also, if the government hasn't managed to convince civil servants, especially hospital staff, that they're inoculating, then I think what we need to discuss further. If we're going to talk about the results of the fight against covida-19, I think the data on today is telling you everything. Infected on today 2020 It was 1413, today is 4571. There were 897 patients in the hospital treatment in 2020, today 1027, on the respirator in 2020, there were 57, today 153, and the deaths in 2020 were 18, and today it's 26. These are the exact results of the fight against covida-10, and these are the results of government council work, government and all the efforts allegedly made to contain this monster. When we talk about the pandemic, we can't touch the health system, it's already been said I won't stay here too long, but the fact is that waiting lists continue to grow, that the availability of healthcare is not better, that many patients are actually discouraged from going to health institutions because of the danger of infection. We've also seen some signs in the newspapers and the media that diabetics are avoiding control just because of the fear of infection. So, on that side, a complete fiasco. If we're talking about the availability of the health system he's not better, he's just yearning. If we add this to the debt to large-scale drugs growing in the sky, it is questionable by when we will have medicines, if we add underpaid health care personnel who have been promised one thing, and then paid off something completely different, not to say bad peanuts, but never amounts that deserve people who were on the first line of the fight against covida -19 and who have exposed themselves and their loved ones precisely because they were involved in that fight until the end of the lack of medical staff. We're going to get a very "nice" mosaic, about the state of our health system. When we add only a few more tezers to that mosaic, which is some announcements that we could see in the media like the state is going to take over the county hospitals, that we're going to have unpaid sick leave, etc. Then we're really taking pictures of a very, very pink picture of the state of our health that's still ahead of the collapse, and now this crisis, the badly-run crisis management, has brought a real edge. Not implementing and inconsistencies in measures that try to contain the pandemic is also one of the major problems. You will also remember some members or members of government headquarters or civil protection headquarters, councils, etc. who spoke of the bio-terrorists, and then proudly spoke and photographed themselves at mass gatherings, so it remains today. On the one hand, we have measures that are not consistently implemented, no one controls them, no one tries to control them at all, and on the other hand you have mass gatherings that are still allowed with little or no control. If we're 4,000 newly infected, 1,000 in the hospital, and the 26 dead we have today, if that's not enough incentive to really start controlling the measures they're taking, then I don't know what should be because unfortunately these numbers have just the potential of growth. And finally, in this segment, I'd like to say a few words about schooling, if we're talking about quality schooling, about schooling available to everyone who creates really the best staff, then we can't talk about that line going on. He line teaching may have been a need, but now you have to avoid as much as you can. Why? Coming from this system, I know clearly how challenging he is to both students and teachers, or teachers, and at the end of the day to parents, because children stay at home. Therefore, it should avoid teaching wherever it is possible, of course with respect to certain epidemiological rules, but which as we know in schools are not implemented due to infrastructure deficiencies and because of the fact that many schools are still affected by earthquakes, etc. And so on, but one year after the earthquake, we haven't achieved any great results again. The third segment he would turn to is poverty, inequality and living standards. Namely, I will repeat some of the information that I said at the beginning of this point in Croatia is 23.3% of people living at risk of poverty and social exclusion, 43% of people living in families that are hard and very difficult to bring to an end. More than half a million people in Croatia in households where no person works, 51.7% of people live in households that can't settle unexpected financial expenditure, and 48.6% live in households that can't afford a week's vacation outside the house. Croatia depends on the cost of basic directors of the 6th country in the world, and more than 40,000 Croatian children depend on various forms of social assistance. Surely when you hear this, it's a picture of a phenomenal place to live. According to Eurostat, the poverty rate has increased by an incredible 33.8% and as many as 66% of pensioners receive a pension of less than 2.927 kuna. It is an amount that is insufficient not for a dignified life but for any life. And as we talk about some average salaries that are actually the exact sum of incorrect data to express myself so if you know what I mean, some people dream about skiing and vacations, and some people are fighting for a full plate and a warm room and it's literally Croatian reality. 800,000 pensioners in Croatia live below the official poverty line, generally looking at pensioners without additional incomes that they generate in different ways and/or permanent financial assistance to their children are condemned to the possibility of literally starving. Minimum wage and pension growth cannot cover inflation, if we talk about inflation and I'll say something later, then I'm sure you'll see that both pay increases or increases in pensions announced by the prime minister are insufficient to monitor the purchases, especially energy and especially people who already have very low incomes. If I were to reduce the ad absurd debate about how workers in Croatia live, then I would illustrate it to you by the difference between è and è because before the workers received the salary, and now they are crying and unfortunately the Croatian reality, the reality of the Croatian working man, and I will tell you why. When we talk about living standards, Croatia is at the very bottom of the European scale, because as we say on the European Commission's pages again, you will not believe, by comparing GDP per capita expressed in purchasing power standard, a standard of living is being proposed in each Member State. In this review, Croatia takes its last place. Indeed something that characterizes a phenomenal place to live. Only Bulgaria is worse than us. Also, Croatia spends 13.3% of GDP on food products on that scale immediately from Romania, which allocates 16% of GDP for food. The poorer the state is the share of GDP for basic needs, and I'm sure we'll agree that food supplies are one of those bigger ones and that's also devastating information about our society. When we talk about social inequalities, it would probably best illustrate the CNB data, which is that 1.7% of the savings hold 43% of the total savings in the country while 2.6 million savings have an average of 10,000 kuna, again the exact data, but an incorrect cut as I would say. In other words, 1.7% of people control most of the capital in Croatia while the rest have barely a little bit to patch up perhaps some extraordinary financial commitment. And finally when we're faced with all this data we're talking about demographics. What kind of demographics and perspective can we talk about with this kind of data? They can't look back on the renovation as well, it's been a year and seven months since the earthquake in Zagreb and 10 months since the earthquake in Banja. About 2,700 people in Banja still do not have adequate accommodation, winter will be welcomed in containers, and only early in the month has the first decision to build a house destroyed in an earthquake that should be completed in June of next year. We still have 5,000 people in containers or 1,000 citizens in the minimum square rooms that serve as temporary accommodation. In Zagreb there are still 7,000 red and yellow damaged objects waiting for reconstruction. In a year after the earthquake, the only thing the government has been able to do is realize that the new Law on Rehabilitation, although the amendments to the law itself, is not a guarantee that the restoration will indeed happen. So almost two years after the earthquake in Zagreb and a year after the earthquake in Banja, there is still no clear progress in these segments and there is still a lot of our citizens waiting for this winter of unresolved housing. So, I said I'd say something about inflation, and I'm going to say that now, consumer prices in Croatia increased by 3.1% in August at the annual level, which is the highest inflation rate since April 2013. when it was 3.3%, it's an acceleration... compared to the month before the DZS data showed. Now translated into Croatian means that food is more expensive, that basic supplies are more expensive and that our citizens who have minimal income anyway, and a lot of citizens work for minimum wage can afford even less. It's too little time to look back at everything I want, but I'll just say a few more segments and then conclude the debate. In agriculture, we still do not have a strategy that is in the public debate, but the ministry still did not respond to some random needs of farmers. We're supposed to force livestock farming, and at the same time this year is catastrophic by the crop of corn that is mostly fed by cattle, cattle are still too expensive for our farmers to be competitive, and the government and the ministry have done little to help them. When we talk about green transition, it will probably be the most successful policy of the Croatian government. And do you know why? Because what little industry we had successfully destroyed. Think of only sugarcane, etc. But not to mention further. We can talk here by tomorrow. Therefore, we can be leading in Europe, but still for the wrong reasons. When we talk about preserving jobs, I believe that they were adopted in good faith, but unfortunately, many economic operators to whom these measures were actually meant to be, and these are small crafts and small businesses that patch up ends with one to one with none or five employees generally did not enjoy these measures. They didn't register, they didn't have the paperwork, they didn't know, etc., etc. And who were the users if you looked at the intersection, so the big companies that could afford to get over this financial crisis themselves. I don't want to name anyone so it doesn't turn out to be a spreadout and I'm deliberately attacking someone, but unfortunately, like most of our measures, I'm afraid we haven't been targeting the right measures and they haven't gotten the result they should have. And what to say definitively after all this data, after all these statistics which are the source of the European Union and Eurostat, the State Statistics Office, etc. that you do not doubt the data I have provided, but to say that I really do not wonder why Croatian national sport is a triathlon, which is to raise credit, skip war and swim in debt. With an emphasis on this last and I fear that without clear intentions of reform, without clear help, clearly articulated and set measures, many of our citizens will sink into this last segment of triathlon that they will not successfully swim in their debt and that they will ultimately be dissatisfied, poor living what will then be reflected in the Republic of Croatia itself, both by emigrating and falling demographics. Because who in these conditions can have children or plan a family, and then finally, with the satisfaction and quality of life of citizens? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66640	He will now speak for his colleague Emil Daus on behalf of the IDS Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66641	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear President of the Croatian Government with the vice presidents. The estimated time isn't enough to say everything that should be said, so I'm going to talk about just two topics that I've set out for today. We know that one of the biggest problems in Croatia is the overworked health system we could see for ourselves during this unfortunate pandemic. Some hospitals shoot at stitches, some doctors leave, and the pressure on the health system is enormous. The situation in Croatian healthcare is almost unsustainable. An urgent and complete reform of the health system is needed. But in the last days, instead of a solution from the Ministry of Health, a proposal for the complete destruction of the health system comes through amendments and additions to the Health Protection Act, at least in what can be read in the proposal of the Ministry’s Working Group. It is proposed that all general and special hospitals at county level 57 get a new owner of the state. The 21st County Institute for Public Health is also scheduled to be abolished, and only one Croatian Institute for Public Health would remain. Further centralisation of the system, which is already centralised as well as almost everything else in this country, will further make it difficult and slow to provide health services. If this proposal is implemented, the quality of health care will fall drastically, and the greatest damage will be suffered by patients. This will be particularly felt in environments where healthcare is higher than the average in Istria County. The investment of the local community will no longer be possible, and we will no longer have the opportunity to develop nor to maintain the above standard as does the Institute of Emergency Medicine of the Istrian County. They cover only 75% of HZZO wages, and all other costs of equipment, vehicles are exclusively in the local community. Even 28.7% of workers have employees in excess of the standard without which they can't function, because there's too little emergency medicine network. In the Institute of Emergency Medicine of the Istrian County, all activities are focused on the quality of work or on patients, and today he has a 25% chance of being revived. In the rest of the country, the recovery rate was below 10% and the 11th was only 2.2%. By 2011, emergency medical services were almost on the sidelines, it was not a professional service and the establishment of the Institute started in quality equipment, training specialised procedures through various international courses. It took a couple of years for everyone to be stalked and geared up. Let me further explain how the experiences with the state administration and the Croatian Emergency Medicine Institute are so far. Until 10 years ago, 1.11.2011, there was no such thing. Then the Department of Emergency Medicine was established, and then the Institute received 7 sanitary vehicles for nine standard emergency medical teams per emergency medical network. The prescribed standard is that a vehicle can be 5 years old or 300 thousand kilometers old. They never received other vehicles from the state, nor any dedicated money for any other type of equipment, nor for uniforms, nor money for material rights of workers, goddesses, regressions and jubilee awards. Vehicles allocated in 2011 were broken down, some of them burned throughout Croatia on the road after only 20 thousand km. Now the emergency care system in Istria has 28 ambulances of which 8 of the best quality Cresh-test give maximum safety to the patient and staff. All their equipment is top-notch and their patient gets everything he needs, and people have international education. They paid for it themselves with the help of the Istrian County, municipalities and cities without the help of the state. The Croatian Emergency Medicine Institute has increased the emergency medical network for some of the counties. Four times the emergency medical network has spread. They bought equipment, equipped education centers, gave helicopters, now they buy boats to all maritime districts except Istria. Every time Istria was forgotten. It was proven by different parameters that our network was insufficient, worse than in others, but without results. So taught by experience so far, we are afraid of what I said earlier in the pause that the government of some will be a mother and some a stepmother. It is expected that someone from the centre of Zagreb will recognise local needs and respond immediately or assign a sufficient number of emergency medical teams, buy quality equipment for work, vehicles, uniforms, is an illusion. Anyway, it's a lot more expensive, and a worse option than this existing one. The pump reaction in some malfunction, and it's similar to the basis that the drive doesn't stop, and by the time you get a central license, it takes time, we all know that when the system is concentrated. We believe that a quality system will be run from one place, we are talking about an emergency medical service with over 5,000 people, with different features, as well as the belief that the Earth is a flat plate. And let's not forget the total resources for health care and the emergency, it only goes 3%, so that's one piece of information that we'd have to think of, because still, an emergency in that first hour saves people's lives. The plans are to abolish the county public health institutions, which are those that ensure comprehensiveness, continuity, quality of health care at local level, and are almost entirely about institutions that achieve positive financial results. The role of population medicine dealing with county institutions for public health, the implementation of health care at local level, which is within the competence of local governance levels. Since the start of the establishment of the Institute of Public Health, more than 100 years ago, as I've been told, they function by protecting the health of the population at local level, which proved to be a great model. The local activities of the County Public Health Institutes have proved particularly effective and useful in the pandemic of Covida-19 disease, as well as in other exceptional circumstances such as earthquakes, floods and similar events, when all public health institutions have reacted without delay and adequately in their fields. The important professional role and visibility of the Institute of Public Health of the Istrian County in these situations is indisputable. And with them, of course, there are superstandards that are additionally financed from the Istrian County budget. Istria has one general hospital in Pula and one special hospital in Rovinj. A lot has been said about Pula in recent years, it has been quality co-operation between both the government and regional administration and local administration and it is commendable, but it is clear to everyone what could happen only under the state administration. As it is clear to everyone how much help it has been and support from locals and regions. On the other hand, we also have a hunting hospital that has shown how quality and capable management and support of the county as founders, but also the town of Rovinj because it is located in Rovinj, can produce excellent results. It is a plus-based hospital that, thanks to its accumulated profits over 6 business years, has overcome difficulties in the past pandemic year. It's a hospital that runs new programs, organizes international events attended by the world's most recognized professors. It is a hospital that has greatly raised standards in the fields of pediatrics, orthopedics, neurology, and physical medicine and rehabilitation. That's where you do great things. And now all that's doing right, where with one responsible policy giving constant support to the profession and for years building a system, now all that needs to be torn down. In short, the Croatian health system is about to break, if something is not done urgently, the pandemic of course, pushed it red, no one could influence it, and now instead of making a rational rescue plan for the system, it is decided that without state and state bureaucracy there is nothing possible. So let us just remind ourselves that in the light of the Health Protection Act, which was adopted in 2018 in the Assembly, the reorganisation of the health care system of the Republic of Croatia was meant to achieve specific objectives where the decentralisation of the system was listed first, and after three years, a completely opposite direction was announced. The price of centralization that we will pay this time will be measured literally in human lives, has humanity and responsibility been lost to that extent? I appeal to reason, wisdom, responsibility, not to do so. And another topic that shows a failed system of centralized government. Already on several occasions, the Istrian mayor and mayors of Istrian cities in which the problem is particularly expressed have been asked by the government of the Republic of Croatia to bring building inspection powers down to cities and municipalities to stop the devastation of space. After 30 years, we must have become aware that the large and tromi state system cannot be as effective as the local one where we see what is happening every day, it can be spotlessly reacted, and that the competent inspection has too few employees. Last week, the mayor of Istria, Miletic, said that potential lawless builders must be stopped from even thinking or acting in that direction, and that is why the state should introduce dragon fines, but also prescribe criminal responsibility for lawless builders. Mayor of Rovinj Paliaga recently said that the state had sent perhaps the worst possible message when illegally built buildings remain in place, even those for whom a solution for the demolition has been issued, regardless of how much more than 200 applications have been filed since 2017. My colleagues and colleagues, you must know that lawless construction brings with it a whole series of lasting and irreparable consequences, I believe that many of you know that, here and fellow mayors, mayors, people are here from professions, different professions and know that other than the objects themselves devasting space, they are building without planned infrastructure, creating complete chaos in space. There is no prescribed disposal of waste water, ends up all underground, into the sea, no quality care and no rainwaters, so there are flooded agricultural areas. It's starting to change the entire environmental system at these locations. In addition, there is an uncontrollable disposal of waste in nature, non-reporting of guests, non-payment of contributions, taxes, etc., etc. and if this does not stop right away, really, Istria will not be an attractive destination as we are now, with pithy landscapes, clean seas, small population, preserved nature, and yet we are talking about the region of tourism leader in the Republic of Croatia, which means a lot to the Croatian economy. There are similar examples in almost all Istrian coastal municipalities and cities. One of the worse situations is certainly in the Vodnjan area, there are more than 5,000 illegal facilities, some of which are legalised in the meantime. According to what could be read in the media, in the last month, in the Vodnjan area, the total construction area has spread to 468 hectares, and the total area outside the building area, which has been built against the spatial plan, so contrary to the laws, is 507 hectares. So when you realize in this whole story that they are a good part of the owners of illegal objects and foreigners, then we ask ourselves whether this illegal usurpation, in some way Croatian territory and endangering the very sovereignty of the Republic. I wonder how many of us would be able to build illegally in Slovenia, Austria and Germany. We can think you would. Of course, I don't mean those foreign citizens who buy or build their facilities in accordance with the applicable regulations, of course they are invited and welcomed. I'm only talking about illegal acts. My colleagues and colleagues, you've heard the causes of the problem. Part of them must be lying in a trom, too large of people and terrain, too remote to a system that's too centralized. It's not people's fault, it's just a system that's too much and they're professional and they're capable of getting lost between all the bureaucratic traps. In this way, problems cannot be solved or difficult to solve. Sometimes they get bigger. You also heard that the consequences of the centralised state can also be the loss of the lives of Croatian citizens. Irregular devastation of space, destruction of nature. In the 21st century, I hope we don't let that happen. But there are solutions. You have to listen, reason I believe there's enough, courage to make decisions. To set up a decentralised health system that has proved far more effective than centralised, introduced superstandards in the counties that have understood what is the priority, which have defined that human life protection and the quality of the health system is nevertheless a priority, to decentralise the system of space management, the powers of building inspection or to bring it down to the counties, cities or to find a common model to stop the devastation of space. So how much more efficient the system is at local and regional level, it has been shown when the issue of construction permits was taken over from the state services when the city and county services were taken over. So let them take over and control the process in space. And of course, ensure the implementation of the law of the Republic of Croatia. It's not enough to just bring them here because the state loves and respects itself by respecting laws and regulations, by paying taxes and contributions, by taking responsibility for each and every one of us for our actions. The state loves and respects itself through an organized health system where the protection of human life and care for their health is ahead of bureaucracy. We must strive for such an orderly and human state. And Mr. Prime Minister, if you go in that direction, you'll have our support and help on that path, but with the additional centralization of the health system to the harm of our citizens and the non-resolvement of total chaos in space and the environment, you won't. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66642	Now two MPs, counterparts Prkachin and counterpart Bartulica, will speak on behalf of the House of Homeland Movement Representatives' Club. First up, buddy Prickin, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66643	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, a warm welcome to all and your colleagues, with this, a little correction, if you will allow me, my colleague Bartulica gave me his 10 minutes, and he and the party president thought it would be more useful for me to finish what I was up to because so far the debate was mainly about internal political problems and they wanted to speak on the subject, and I would nevertheless in some very serious developments around us. But first, if you'll allow me to look back on what the esteemed colleague Pupovac said. So, he talked about something very important and important that is happening in BiH and Montenegro, and along the way, he mentioned the Serbian Orthodox Church in half serious and semi-silent terms and referred a look of reproach to me, making sure it doesn't make me very angry, but to warn me about something anyway. So, a man like me isn't hard, or it's not easy to talk, even about a bad guy. And that's why I called a serious Croatian historian incomparably more valuable and serious than they are... Jakovina, Goldstein and Klasic, Stjepana Loza, let me forget in a hurry, because I don't carry the papers, that I am quickly dictated some facts from the Valerian Memorial, and that Valerian's memo, it's a memo that's in the 6th month. '41. As Stevan Moljević worked as a memorandum of homogeneous Serbia to slaughter Croats and Muslims in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and thus to create a homogeneous Serbia, the Serbian Orthodox Church contributed to the Serbian matter in such a way that for 10 days in the lie laboratory, they agreed such lies that they first sent to the German general, the commander of Serbia, Dunkelman, and they called the memorandum "Dankelman's Memorande", and Stjepan Lozo rightly corrected it and said it was Valerian's, according to the Serbian bishop who wrote it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And watch what's in that memo. I got it copied from the Belgrade archives, I'll just give you three, four details. That Croatian soldiers were in Clay in '41. The year they killed all Serbs, and the '48 list. Mr. online, says that Glini is about 22 137 Serbs, I think it says so, but I won't go to those papers now, so the Croatian Ustashas and the rest of the Croatian army killed all Serbs in Lapca and the '48 list. Mr. says there's over 10,000 Serbs in Lapca. The Croatian Ustashas also killed all Serbs in Gospić and the '48 census. Mr. says there were over 10 grand. Interesting in that Lapca list since '31. The year was 1500 Croats, and in '48. Only 134 Croats. There were 1500 Bosnian Petrovac, almost 1600 Croats, 130 left after the war. The genocide was committed over the Croats, it was repeated all of '91. Since the main holder of the project is the Serbian Orthodox Church, which I will dedicate to later in giving a little more time and attention, since he is therefore the main holder of the project, then I really either withdraw or deliberately say, a criminal or a Satanic institution. And therefore, as for your report, Mr. Prime Minister, if it were five minutes more time, I would also commend you, but this time must be used for friendly criticism. So, uh... Yes, so, let's relax the atmosphere, the most important part of Croatian politics and move from domestic policy to foreign policy, it's a Serbian problem because it is part of both Croatian internal and Croatian foreign policies and we Croatians, or Croatian state policy has a relationship with Croatian Serbs, with Serbian Serbs and with Bosnian Serbs, and there is a serious grudge. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Croatian politics should precisely define the difference between the three Serb species and make three Croatian-Serbian policies. In my opinion, you mentioned this a little bit in the report, too much attention is paid to Croatian Serbs who have no political weight on their hearts. People have and all minority rights should be obtained, but I think they are on such a percentage that they in Croatia can no longer make any mess of what they have often done. Although there were times when they worked in order and they co-operated correctly with the Croats, these are what our people say "were rare Fridays". I also think that we are not energetic enough either towards Serbian Serbs or towards the state of Serbia. Nor are we clearly, loudly and energetically seeking war reparations, nor are we resilient in the discovery of missing Croats, or even Serbs who disappeared during the Homeland War. They're supposed to be a lot more energetic around here. We are also wrong because we are not correct and clear to the international community, we have clearly shown the destructive action of Serbian politics in Montenegro led by this I will again tell the criminal Serbian Orthodox Church. So the international community had to know. So then I'm unhappy that we're not, so if we don't cancel that contract that Racan signed 18 years ago with the Serbian Orthodox Church that we didn't at least go into review. I hope so, and I believe that Mr. Prime Minister, you've also received some kind of memo from me. Look at him a little bit, so he can get it off the dead end. I purposely put this Serbian Orthodox Church in the context of Croatian Serbs, but Serbian Serbs and Belgrade. For they treat the Croatian Serbs in such a way as some religious rituals, but these are the unbelievers, and the believers and the fathers, the three of them, the four of them believe in God, and the rest save God. So it's funny, but believe me, it's true. So I put them in the context of Belgrade and Serbia because they are the political or military exposition of Belgrade. And now they're coming to our turn politically important Serbs, they're Bosnian Serbs to you. They're absolutely the most important.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66644	So the topic is the Report of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I'm asking you to find some connection to what you're talking about with the report. This is completely off topic right now. I'm letting you go, but you're really going off topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66645	Mr. President-in-Office, this is completely on the subject. Well, foreign policy, though, is more of a replica. Foreign policy is a very, very serious part of Croatian state policy. There is a man among us who leads that policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66646	I agree, but please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66647	And that doesn't do it bad, but it can do it even better.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66648	I agree, but I'm asking you to find a link so I can't object. Because this is how you're off topic, I have to tell you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66649	Believe me, the two of us usually have a good relationship, but this is a little confusing. I continue to argue that I am fully and absolutely on the subject because foreign policy is part of Croatian state policy. And I think I can talk about what's not said, which is, consult with the Prime Minister to see what he thinks. I think I can also talk about what is part of foreign policy, as you watch out in neighbouring Bosnia and Herzegovina have started very serious political events, very serious political developments. Some serious people claim this is the final phase of Yugoslavia's collapse. Can I talk about it?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66650	Just find a link.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66651	I think I know how to connect the facts, but Well, you can see that attention is much bigger than just before. [[- A bogeyman.]] So in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the final phase of the calculation and destruction of the former Yugoslavia is. Some say similar is happening in Montenegro, even the same. The same is not, but it is similar because the Serbian-Montenegro problem is historically much deeper. He's been going for several centuries and thousands of years. The first fight between Serbs and Montenegrins was in 1042. So this should be known, Mr. President, that it can be properly set up in a conversation in Europe regarding Serbs, etc. So the final stage of the launch begins. Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina are in an extremely difficult situation. You interrupted me at a time when I would say something shocking, because we are almost incorrect to Bosnian Serbs because in history, Croats and Serbs did not happen to be on such a clean platform as Serbs and Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Because for the conflict in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the problem is the Bosnian-Herzegovina first culprit of the international community. Another culprit of Bosniak unitarism. That's what we need to talk about. It's an extremely important thing. A man with the reputation and influence our prime minister has in Brussels when he puts it out and when he says it has a special weight, more so that the last high representative that Milorad Dodig does not recognise seems to be finally a politician from Europe who knows something about events in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Because for that reason, he probably doesn't impose any punishment, no reproach, but he's waiting for the development of events. So, the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina is such that if Croatia's policy is included properly in this problem we will certainly make the position of Croats significantly easier. And watch out for the absurd, maybe even save Bosnia and Herzegovina because the only people in Bosnia and Herzegovina that the Dayton Bosnia and Herzegovina responds to is the Croatian people. There are some who fear what will happen to us Croats if Serbs and Muslims agree. I can never make a deal. To make a deal, it takes one and a half Bosnia. It takes half of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Serbs and all of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Muslims, and there's not one and a half Bosnia, but there's one Bosnia. So one decently decorated Bosnia and Herzegovina is responding to the Croats, and for this reason Europe needs to know what is going on in Bosnia because some American diplomats, including some from NATO, know something about these developments. So, is this a similar subject? I'm going. So I did tell you that I'm going to talk about foreign policy, whether I should list it now and repeat that I'm talking about the B2 Capital, and if I have to talk about it, I'm going to give him a free speech. [[/Intruder: You mentioned the prime minister, you made a connection. But a little more.]] Mr. Prime Minister, you must protect the Croatian people from these robbers on the side. So, shall I talk about the gatherings, here, my proposal is next. As for helping the Croatian man and the consumer. If you do not go, there is no Minister of Finance, if you do not enter the excise duties and VAT I fear it will be very difficult to protect the man, the Croatian man at this time. But I'd still stay a little bit longer on the problem I started with. So he almost confused me, I mean President of the Parliament. So we need to know what's going on in Montenegro. There are still people who think it's some kind of, that it's some kind of religious conflict, that it's an attack on the state's faith, no talking. No way. We have a Croatian historian Hrvoj Klasic who neither guilty nor obliged to go there, beats himself up and speaks a lot of nonsense, takes out of context a little bit, the fact that the power of the Montenegrin Orthodox Church is questionable and stands, however, this Tomos is actually mentioned in the meantime, the relationship between the Montenegrin Church and the Serbian Church is important. It is true that Serbs introduced Orthodoxism, that Nemmanic conquered Duklja in 1189 and introduced Orthodoxism, but it is true, too, that they were 1360. The Germans went and that... Is this one on the subject? It is true, then, that after Dušan the Strong or so on. Strong Germans leave the scene, Orthodoxy stays in Montenegro. All the sanctities were raised by Montenegrins in Montenegro. It's all their property, and it's not really about Tomos, it's about property, like it does in Croatia. Generally, the Serbian Orthodox Church has no right to neither Croatian property nor Montenegrin property. Unlike us in Croatia, Montenegrins understand that. They argue that the Serbian Orthodox Church 50, 40 or 50m euros annually draws only from the Ostrog monastery. It is also said that there are services to check, that Mr. Maric's money is missing, that the money that the Serbian Orthodox Church moves into Croatia and Montenegro without the control of the Croatian state and without the control of the Montenegrin state goes to Belgrade and more interestingly, it does not come under the control of the Serbian state but under the control of some illegal structures and allegedly that money is coming back to buy property through Croatia, it is thought of eastern Slavonia, therefore, to buy media space, in order to do all that is not in the interest of the Croatian state and Croatian people. So, the situation in foreign policy is such that if I don't get a chance or anyone else, to go through Montenegro and Serbia from the 1042th of the Tudjmil battle to this day, if it doesn't start from 1905 to today, as far as the relationship between Serbs and Croats is concerned, it will be very difficult to solve these problems, especially if it doesn't get serious into II. svt. War because there's a wise man who says don't talk about it, Homeland War is a sequel II. svt. The war, we haven't solved it yet, we haven't, we solve it by diplomatic means and ways, here, I'll end it with this. One more sentence, I have a proposition. Mr. President, we need to revise the contract with the Serbian Orthodox Church, under urgent investigation of Jadovno, Jasenovac, etc., to repent, to apologize for the crimes we have done, to think of us Croats, but to see what they are and what they are like. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66652	Let's move on now. 10th in a row, the HDZ Representatives Club and respected counterpart Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66653	I would like to thank Mr. President, the Honorable Prime Minister, the Honorable Vice President of the Government. Before I say a few words about the Annual Report presented to us this morning by the Prime Minister, and I will say a few words about the impression to which opposition politicians are called in their debates on behalf of the club. According to them, the Prime Minister does not provide the correct information, which is not real, which is in a particular segment and exaggerated and does not correspond to the actual data that they have. They are trying to say that it is actually a beauty of reality, how, as the report has been submitted, it refers to another country, not Croatia, and by trying and resisting to say that they are deeply immersed in the problems of Croatian citizens, Croatian peoples, referring to the same people. So I would just add that what the Croatian people thinks we can, say, see several times a month through important significant research into the same public opinion that gives them political support at a level below the statistical error, while at the same time the HDZ they dispute the right to speak for the majority part of Croatian voters, give more than 30%. But we put aside the polls they say are under HDZ's paw anyway, then we talk about what Croatian citizens, Croatian voters say in the elections. And in the meantime, since this report is in the period this report covers a year... the real and only test in Croatia. It's a local self-government election. In these elections, the Croatian Democratic Community adopted more than 50% of all the leaders in local self-government units and 75% of the leaders in district self-government units and counties. So here is the information about who can actually, who is authorised to speak for the Croatian people and Croatian voters. And not to say that a year and a half ago in the general parliamentary elections we won 44% of all mandates here in the Croatian Parliament. And then when I hear it's coming to us about whose name we're talking about, in what way we're doing it, then when we look at it this way, we see it in a completely different light than what we heard from the opposition politicians this morning, while on behalf of the club of their clubs, they were talking about the Annual Report of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. But to return to the topic of this item of our agenda of the Annual Report of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. When I thought about what on behalf of the club would most say, what should be paid the greatest attention then there was no dilemma with me. The top topic in the past 20 months in Croatia, including during this reporting period, is the pandemic of the corona virus or Covida disease 19. And when we can measure the success or failure of the government in that period, given the fact that the topic is the top theme, the most important topic to which this Parliament is, not to say the government and headquarters devoted the most time, then the work of the government and the ruling majority in Croatia can be assessed in relation to the results of this struggle. I would remind all of us that at the beginning of this outbreak, which I say for 20 months in Croatia, we were honored to have chosen the wrong anti-constitutional and illegal model and how to fight the epidemic in Croatia. We have chosen the constitutional path by which we have said that the basis of the law will empower the Government and the headquarters to implement concrete measures, that we will implement these measures in a way that will define the framework here in the Croatian Parliament, and within that framework, the government, the headquarters, will implement such measures as they will take. On the other hand, the constitutional test is in which the request was rejected primarily by opposition politicians that we should bring such measures to the Croatian Parliament by a two-thirds majority. The Constitutional Court made it clear that the legislator had the right to determine whether he would take one or another time. And we have set ourselves on this road that we have been fighting the crown in Croatia for 20 months and proved successful. He's proven successful for a number of reasons. The most important moment in the past year when Croatia had to have the crown under control was the tourist season. It was a crucial moment for me when looking at the economic, financial interests of this country had to have the crown under control in order to take advantage of those three, four or five months, and it still took a tourist season to make it possible and to earn as much funds as possible in order to make it through these times of crisis and so it happened. During the summer of this year, Croatia was the leader and winner of Mediterranean tourism, not to say that according to the data I saw yesterday when we talk about the number of people infected per million in the past 20 months, Croatia is 13th among the 27 members of the European Union, and we know very well the most developed and generally the most developed country of the world. When we talk about the number of deaths, in the cumulative number of deaths in the past 20 months in Croatia, 9 thousand and 100 died with today about. We are here on the 8th of our success or the failure of our countries in Europe. However, what is important and what the government has repeatedly pointed out and what we in the ruling majority are constantly pointing out, and in Croatia we are constantly emphasising the democratic community, given that the government has provided sufficient doses of vaccines we call on citizens to be vaccinated. Well, that's where we made the appointment. We are here from 27 Member States 25. Now, if those we can put in a group of anti-vaxers or other Croatian citizens who challenge the achievements of science, who has never reacted more quickly in history in the way she reacted in the fight against the crown, then we cannot say and take the impression that this number of infected, especially the number of dead, and if you want in this 4th wave, is very, very closely linked to the fact that we are, by the failure of the 25th state in Europe. And that's what I tell all of us, and when I tell all of us, then I think about it and I look at this left side of the assembly, it's an obligation to deprive our particular party interests clearly without delay and we say that we need to approach vaccination, split up at the level of Malta or Portugal, Spain, some other state that is above, about 85 to 90% and we need to move that rate of fissure in Croatia to count as few hospitals and deaths as possible in Croatia. But I read, watch, follow, listen in Croatia is often more important to the opposition parties in order to show that this poor split is actually a mistrust in the government, and in other countries where governments change once a year, where more governments have been in the last 30 years than in years, this split was higher. So which one are we talking about trust in the government or mistrust in the government? Therefore, I think that we have done everything here and that the biggest challenge during this 4th wave of epidemics is to convince Croatian citizens, our neighbours that we need to approach vaccination. So that's one aspect in which I think we've proven successful in 20 months. The second part, I don't think I've heard any comments here today about the argument of the government's work when we talk about the Croatian economy. In the 3rd quarter of this year, not to list the numerous data the prime minister presented so I don't repeat them from the growth of media pay, the average salary, from the growth of minimum wages. A decision to raise wages to, minimum salaries to 3 thousand 750 kuna or 500 euros was announced for tomorrow, which seems to me to be even more than some trade union leaders expected would be made in that same minimum wage regulation. So, not to list a number of financial indicators. This data shows that in the 3rd quarter we grew 16.1% among the first, three, four countries in the European Union. And again, when we talk about the European Union, we need to know what countries they are, that at the end of this year, according to the data that we are going to discuss next Wednesday when we talk about the rebalancing of the state budget of GDP in the year, which is largely marked by almost a whole of the battle against the crown, we will achieve growth that will be about the same as the one that was last year when we were incarcerated, we had lock down both in the real and in the public sector. If that's not the data, so we've been said through two over a year by the Minister of Finance, I have to say that it's more logical for me through one than through two, so because we fell in one, in the other we went back to a pre-crisis period with measures and measures in which, as the prime minister said, I've already said that many times, showed how inevitable it is, how important it is, how crucial it is, how crucial the role of the state is. All that talk about how the state did not, as it did not trust the institutions, that the institutions in this country were unprepared for falling into the water when in that year the state strongly stood behind the real sector. Each other public sector employee allows Covid support when it allows a number of other measures to preserve jobs, to preserve liquidity, to preserve the business activities of our entrepreneurs, which then clearly leads to the fact that today we have a look at the data of the Croatian Employment Office almost in the same number of unemployed in Croatia as on the same day of 2019. The difference is... Depends on whether it's the day before or after. [[You don't understand.]] 133 thousand are unemployed in Croatia today. And in my opinion, more than that says that the number of insurance workers, the number of employees by 50 thousand is higher than on the same day last year or 6 thousand more than the number of employees on the same day of 2019. These are respected colleagues and colleagues of the data that talk about whether someone is successful or not. I don't get it. So the data they give or the European agencies, and when we talk about agencies, and it immediately comes to me and the credit agencies that say that at that time and when we were down 8.4 when we grew up debt, when we grew the deficit left at the level of the credit investment rating, that's the information that tells us whether this Annual Report could have a passage in the Parliament or not, not what I would think or what I think or what my impression of the government's been doing over the past year. As much as we tried to be critical and to base our discussions on our own impression, I didn't hear that they could dispute the fact that during that time we knew how and how to secure the funds and to rebuild after the war of the destroyed great part of Croatia, first of all Zagreb, Zagreb County, Karlovac County, Sisak-Moslavina County, that we provided funds today at some level of around 12 billion kuna that are from more... immediately available and what about this amendment to the law, which we will vote on Friday, speed up that amendment as we think appropriate, which we may have done before. [[You don't understand.]] But it's good to do it now because it's important that we have the means to get into such a fast, stronger, stronger reconstruction and that we have provided for the next 5 or 7 years it doesn't matter 25 billion euros in order to talk about a new digital society through a multi-annual financial framework or through a national recovery plan what we're thinking about today, and we're talking about a green transition, we're talking about a new digital society, etc. we can implement, implement reforms primarily in the public sector to achieve those figures, those macroeconomic indicators that we want to achieve. And we heard it a little this morning from the prime minister, and we heard it yesterday from the finance minister that we continued without a crisis we would already be under 60% of that public debt today. We have therefore created financial assumptions using, above all, European Union funds to use 15 or 10 years more than Croatia in the decade ahead of us to reach and reach at least the level of those countries that have used the same European funds and the European budget. I think that's the data, that's the basis on which we can talk about the government's success. And to all those critics who speak today about how right or wrong it was in 2011 to complete the negotiations for entry into the European Union is also saying that in the past 8 years we have drawn 44 billion kuna from European funds more than Croatia has participated in the European budget as a member of the European Union. Well, from these funds, first of all from these funds is the growth of investments in Croatia. 15 years ago, there was a very intense construction of transport infrastructure above all. But this whole construction of intensive construction of transport infrastructure was based on our duty and we grew public debt, which consequently had to build a network of highways in Croatia. We are now entering a larger investment cycle with foreign funds, with foreign funds from EU member states. And with these means, we build the Pelješki Bridge with Croatia's participation of about 15%, for example. For example, we're building corridor 5C, bridge in Svilaj, second tube of Ucka tunnel. There was also a renaissance on the Croatian coast. There are 13 large ports that are at the investment level of about 100 or 150 million kuna for better integration of Croatian islands. So, the fact that we have a very intense construction of transport or energy infrastructure when we talk about and about that part then we cannot forget the construction and release of LNG we achieve this growth through these investments which are one of the drivers, significant drivers of the growth of gross social product in the Republic of Croatia. As far as the renovation is concerned, I think it is another topic, in my opinion, which marked the work of the government, and also the unit of the regional self-government in Croatia, regardless of only one part of Croatia, but it is still about a housing fund of around 50,000 objects that have been partially or completely destroyed in Croatia. I think that by amending the law that I said we would adopt on Friday or come up with, we have prepared an appropriate legislation that will significantly speed up the renewal in Zagreb, but certainly also in Banovina. At first as a person and a man who came from that mile and to me I had to say incomprehensiblely that the state was entering a construction reconstruction of objects that did not know who owned it or whose owner was not also a land-book owner. And I should have told myself for a certain time to realize in my mind that it's not really rebuilding the owner's building, but it's renovating the building primarily, it's being reconstructed in a constructive sense, and it's being restored by this amendment of the law that 80% is paying for the state, 20% of the units in the area of self-government. And it took time for those of us who have been planning our whole lives to think that it's impossible to get a building permit without solving the property-law situation in the land book. Today we restore and accept as the only possible fact that it is primarily necessary to rebuild the building, while unresolved property-legal relations or unresolved property-legal relations in the book remain during that time. But it is up to us as a serious state to congratulate the government on the fact that we have come to another model, which is that we will restore Croatia regardless of who is in which building it owns. And anyway, we're gonna free him from paying for the participation in the financing of that construction reconstruction. And it is good that the state has taken over the entire construction reconstruction itself, that is, with a unit of regional self-government. I therefore believe that this is very good and that we have increased the thresholds in which we will more quickly realise the implementation of public procurement because we are aware of what it means and how far it can draw us away from accepting the thresholds of public procurement in such projects as is very important to make them quick and as soon as possible. I'm out of time, Mr. President. We will surely support this report on behalf of the Representatives' Club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66654	We're going to the last debate now. Green-left bloc representatives' club, respected counterparts Kekin and Bencic. She'll be the first to speak to a colleague named Kekin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66655	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Prime Minister, with his associates and respected MPs and MPs. First of all, I would like to point out that the prime minister's performance has been evident, and it is very touching that he is the prime minister who is being set up by all his ministers and ministers. Namely, his performance reminded me, and I was not alone in the recent statement by Minister Aladrovic, whom I wish for a quick and complete recovery this way, which was also recently impressed with self-loving praises, claimed that Croatia is a phenomenal place for life. The only problem is that both of them and the rest of the world would disagree with most of Croatian citizens and citizens. In fact, the Prime Minister’s report today is completely separate from the reality in which we live. Here's to starting with. The claim of excellent and adequate handling with the pandemic crisis can also be denied by the weakest member of the primary school debate club. With today we have 43, exactly 43% of fully vaccinated citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. We're at the bottom of the EU. With 9,000 and a hundred dead in the world top by the number of deaths per million inhabitants. At the same time, hospitals have been sub-catered and spatially and as far as people are concerned, so in the pre-scheduled departments where we previously treated patients with mental illness, ophthalmological diseases, we are now treating patients with covid disease and they are being treated by re-scheduled doctors, psychiatrists, ophthalmologists, neurologists. On the other hand, although there is a very clear, unambiguous global scientific consensus on the importance of vaccination, our government continues to hold in its scientific advice a man who almost daily questions this same world scientific consensus, in a way that the Prime Minister himself, the entire government, the competent minister and all the rest of the Scientific Council have been embroiled by the statements of the said gentleman. Also, despite this global scientific consensus on the importance of vaccination, the government does not think that its responsibility is a low population cleavage, nor does it feel that it is its responsibility to motivate the population to be vaccinated. However, when the water reaches the throat or when the water reaches the hospital, the government finds that the health crisis is the best solution in a way that the children have little patience. So our children and youngsters, some of whom are vaccinated again next week, will taste all the charms of an on-line school for which research has shown very clearly that it leaves long-term consequences for their mental health. But well, obviously the consequences of the mental health of children and young people as well as these consequences in the dramatically devastating numbers of the dead are more tolerable for the government of Andrej Plenkovic than the consequences of any rating that would produce some potentially unpopular but certainly political and public-healthy responsible moves. But of course, it is not our first time to see this government run by opportunism and that everything it does keeps its ratings, and also health care is not the only resort in which we look at it. In fact, precisely because the government's moves are motivated by just opportunism and the preservation of ratings, the government has not implemented a single reform. So if they really decided on a reform, they would unnecessarily damage their rating. Let's say that the Government of Andrej Plenkovic really decides to implement the reform of the territorial structure of the Republic of Croatia. If they did so, it would necessarily mean loss of functions, positions, jobs whose votes are currently being held, or, for example, to implement judicial reform, so that we have a functional, fair and timely judiciary. Well, that would mean that many HDZ and HDZ women who bathe in affairs these days would end up in prison and that would damage our government rating again. In addition, let's imagine that this government is implementing a reform of education, so that we finally get to the point of teaching our children in schools how to think, not to think. This would already have been produced through several electoral cycles by a voting body which is educated, which is motivated, which has demanding voters and which cannot be bought by some place in the municipality and cannot be convinced that everyone in this assembly is the same and that they are completely helpless. Yes, reforms are therefore serious and the government of Andrej Plenkovic knows very well what is the only reform on which they continue to reform the common sense of Croatian citizens who are constantly convinced that they should be trusted, not with their own eyes and ears. So let's start for a while, but unfortunately not a sweet journey to face reality. Croatia, for example, is at the very beginning of the EU according to the public's purchasing power criteria. Weaker purchasing power than we only have Bulgarians and Bulgarians. With Bulgaria, we share the infamous last place in the category of countries whose residents are the most isolated for food, very high 20% of the income. We keep the last place in Europe even when it comes to the level of perceived independence of the judiciary. Otherwise in Croatia, if you are Prime Minister or Minister Aladrovic lives phenomenally, but still only three years shorter than the average EU resident. We can thank this for the lack of effectiveness of public health intervention, which is why mortality can be prevented far above the EU average. Of course, it also has to do with the fact that spending on health care per capita in Croatia remains at the very bottom of most other EU countries, and that health staff are increasingly fleeing from this phenomenal life across the border. In the field of education, our students and students show that according to the results of the PISA survey compared to other EU countries, they are well below average results. We begin at the very beginning when digital literacy occurs, and the educational structure of the adult population is also far from the EU average. There's more. According to EUROSTAT, on a scale of general life satisfaction, less content than we are to be hit by Bulgarians and Bulgarians, and less than half of Croatians of young people work in their profession, while half of us do not have a safe and sustainable job. In addition, they work longer than the law of the prescribed standard and earn less than the average salary. In line with the above, young people are unsatisfactory, unsatisfactory, and apathetic. But they don't bloom to old government roses either. According to the Ombudsman’s report, the average pension in 2020 was as much as 147 kuna below the poverty threshold, making it difficult for many pensioners to settle food and directing costs, and because of strict censorships they could not even exercise their rights in the welfare system. So, even two-thirds of all pensions in Croatia are below the poverty threshold, two-thirds. We're at the bottom, and when there's a minimum wage, we're at the bottom of a scale and we're on the middle of a personal income and per volume of personal consumption and we can do so indefinitely. But there's one thing that we're at the top of the world, it's the perception of corruption, especially political corruption. But here's the government came up with a solution, so in the future Anti-Corruption Strategy, they decided to put the emphasis on reducing the perception of corruption, perceptions of course not corruption because the real fight against corruption would damage the rating.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66656	The honourable representative Bencic will continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66657	Thank you, Prime Minister. So this government, which is actually the government of continuity, must have been faced with great challenges. So I'm not just talking about the last year and I'm talking about the last few years. And when we look at everything you've counted today that will be the political legacy of Plenkovic's governments, so the government you're prime minister to then can say that will surely be your answer to three key crises. It's like the first crisis with Agrokor. Second, your response to the covid pandemic and your third response to two devastating earthquakes in Zagreb and Banja. Let's take it in a row. What was the answer between you and your government to the Agrokora situation? The answer was the organization of the notor group Borg, and the consequences are these: the loss of 800 million kuna for pension funds, i.e. our workers and workers who pay in them, and the huge losses to our suppliers. That's right, so-called. Agrokor's advisors have so far been paid more than Agrokor needed and has never paid suppliers for their border debt. Lex Agrocorom has provided a model of roll-up credit for which many experts today claim to have been unnecessarily high and which allowed more than 600 million kuna compensation for their advice to be paid only in the first year. You boasted that when we draw the line, you did a great job. A great job in its result several years later comes down to this: a strategically important company as you called it and for which you passed a controversial law is now owned by a majority of the Russian state which owns both the Spark Bank and WTB and which sell out the most valuable companies that were part of Agrokor. It's the first part of your political heritage. The second part of your political legacy is your response to the covid crisis. What you can boast is that because of the lack of courage and willingness to take serious and responsible moves when I talk about the courage and willingness to take serious moves, I also talk about the need to review current tactics that have not clearly yielded results. Because of this lack, we are at the bottom of the EU's cleavage. A colleague spoke, so at 43% and at the top of the mortality rate of a million inhabitants. However, our prime minister does not give up on the Staff no longer trusted in this country, nor on a member of the Scientific Council that is doing exactly the opposite of the goal and purpose of the campaign that this government is carrying out. Because it seems to you the well-being of citizens and society is more important to hold a position even if it is at the expense of human life. Because even then, the Prime Minister doesn't recalibrate from stalking tactics. The third part of your legacy is what we will long remember, because we will long watch, because we will long remember your response to the earthquake in Zagreb and the earthquake in Banja. And I can say with absolute certainty that I speak to the greater majority of citizens when I say that this must be the greatest sin of this government. It is difficult to imagine any comparable situation in any other country where in the capital a year and a half after the earthquake, the first decisions to be made to watch out for now "remove", removing houses destroyed in an earthquake after a year and a half. The buildings, the symbols of this earthquake in this city, so the ones you most often watched on television because they were completely destroyed are still standing, because they were not organized by the system of removal, and although the construction inspection had the opportunity to do so and the State Inspectorate at the request of the unit of local self-government or when you gave them the elaborate, even when you did all the paperwork they didn't want to come and say that the buildings had to be abolished. It's part of this government's political legacy that they must be removed. It's part of that legacy. It is difficult to imagine a country's prime minister who, after a second devastating earthquake in Bania, decided now to reduce funds to the Ministry of Construction for Reconstruction in the budget, and we will increase the defence ministry because they have to pay an advance for the purchase of aircraft. We can't imagine it unless this comparable country of yours might be in a war conflict, so maybe that's clear to us. Whether it can be clear to us in 2021 in Croatia today, that it is taken from the position of the Ministry of Construction in charge of reconstruction, and we are increasing the MORH. Yes, the safety of people who live in buildings that are truly threatened by their lives, the safety of people who will freeze in containers. To the safety of these people, do you mean them when you say it? So, can we imagine that the prime minister of any other country would allow his citizens to spend another winter in containers in order, while getting five billion kuna only for Zagreb and Zagreb County, 5 billion kunas that will probably not spend half of it, because he did not organise the system needed to restore and spend those funds in time. It will receive another 2 billion for Banovina to resolve the most urgent consequences of the earthquake, but nothing happened there in the past year either. It's hard to imagine that the prime minister of a country where all this would happen would come here for a pay phone and boast about his successes. Because if that's how you tell the Prime Minister, if we're doing so well, if we get so much money, if we're growing GDP, if the budget is being filled up satisfactorily, then why doesn't your government give the Prime Minister the money to rebuild? Then why did you cut the funds for the Reconstruction Fund? Why? Why don't you pay your dues to the units of local self-government that pre-financed the state's obligations against the recovery of earthquake damage. Then why are people in containers waiting for the second winter without adequate accommodation and why, when you're doing so well and we have an advance on planes, why have you abolished people's ability to get a warm meal in Bania? Are those priorities? So part of the people lost, so do you live here? So people will spend the second winter in Zagreb and Banja in containers. People will still live in inadequate accommodations such as hostel Arena and that units of local self-government have not responded by their own means these people would still be there. If no first aid had occurred from different citizens from Croatia, Italy, Austria, etc. The question that sent those first containers was, the question is, if an organized state would answer that question. Because what exactly is this about? When you boast about supporting the economy during the covid crisis you are actually boasting that you successfully transferred money from the budget, which is what that money you received from the EU to the company accounts and it worked out for you. Bravo! However, where there is to be an organised system with money and an organised state such as in the case of Agrokora, such as in the case of covida, such as in the case of renovations, then all falls apart and the results are devastating. Then from the great leader you move into the game of hide and switch agreements, because such serious procedures as the restoration, such as the covid, as Agrokor was, seek courage and seek the lack of calculations. And that's what this government and you prime minister are missing from the calculation. And that's what will be your legacy. Your legacy will be that in the most difficult moments of this country you played hide-and-seek behind Martina Dalic, the hide-and-seeker behind Mr Vandjelic and the hide-and-seeker behind Minister Beros. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66658	This is what we came up with at the end of the club debate. And now, on behalf of the rapporteur, we will finally be addressed by the respected Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66659	Thank you, well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, respected MPs and MPs. I thank you for your comments during this debate on the report on the work of the Government over the past year which I have once again had the opportunity to present here before you and of course in front of the Croatian public. A few notes about how we have experienced work and dealing with many challenges over the past year from the aspect of the one who has the responsibility, who is in power and who faces every day all concrete problems of Croatian citizens, Croatian state, Croatian society and the aspects of those who have the privilege of being in opposition. Of course it's two different optics, so then these childish comments about us being in Switzerland or that we're in another country can only talk to someone who's malicious and who doesn't follow, doesn't see and what's most important doesn't really want to see everything that's been done and everything that's been done. That's why they serve this year's debate, reports that it says in detail what the government is doing. We're in this hour as far as the Rules of Procedure has been determined to tell me about a third of what we've done in the past year. It's really a lot, a lot more than you can see, than you're following and what you want to finally notice. And there's this huge and huge difference between our picture and your picture of Croatian reality. I'm going to make a few comments on some of the topics of covid and vaccination. The pandemic lasts over 600 days. There's no day, no moment of address, and we didn't hire people to split. The anti-covid tool is a vaccine. The vaccine of course did not provide opposition to Croatian citizens, but was provided by the government. The vaccine has so much that it's more than enough and more than available at any time to protect yourself. [[Intruder President: Please do not throw from the bench.]] However, whether all actors and not I think of the government as a key institution were equally engaged in promoting vaccination in our society. I don't think so. They were serious about vaccination, and today they're for vaccination. I will call today on all those who have given two doses to be given the third dose as soon as possible, especially those who have passed several months since receiving the second dose and who may not have recently checked their condition with antibodies. That's more than clear. You do not need to be a doctor or an epidemiologist, or an infector to understand the situation in which we are. So that's the first one. The tools are here. All those who have not been vaccinated at all, be vaccinated with the first dose, those who have been vaccinated with the first dose and the second dose, be vaccinated with the third dose. It's the key, it's not just people who are immunely compromised, it's everything. As for the measures we've taken in the context of Covid 19. The whole battle against corruption is a balance, a balance that I am convinced we have managed to achieve in order to maintain both health care and social activity, the economy, the financial situation. The measures we have taken and the promotion of responsibilities and heritage when it comes to the covid crisis in the context of the situation in which it was a private sector will remain a huge legacy where we have saved 700,000 jobs and 120,000 employers. It's Legassy. These people are grateful, they're not as loud as the Swiss opposition, but they're grateful. Ask small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, ask large, ask ultimately craftsmen how they managed to overcome the crisis and overcome the crisis. The goal of preventing social fractures was not to want a wave of layoffs and we don't want a wave of bankruptcy, they didn't happen. The aim of the measures is to open at the right time for the tourist season. You've seen the numbers, you'll hear the details in two days when the entire tourist sector gathers in Zupi Dubrovačka, to recapitulate what we've done with others in the Mediterranean. Try to measure those arches. It is certainly all without any role of government, tourist community, tourist workers, safe stay concepts. It all happened with an invisible hand in Switzerland. It wasn't our season. That season happened in Switzerland. It's about vaccination. As far as the euro is concerned, I can see that there is no fellow Sovereignist. So, I'll do it again. The accession treaty is clear as day, it can't be clearer. EU membership also involves the introduction of the euro at the moment when the accession country is ready. We are negotiating a derrogation that we do not have to introduce the euro immediately, but when we are ready. It's been eight years and three, four months since membership. The idea of entering the euro ten years after membership is reasonable, rational after the implementation of the strategy adopted by the Government in May 2018. So, not overnight, not cryomically, publicly, legally based, confirmed at a referendum in January 2012. Ratified at the time by the Croatian Parliament, it seems to me with 150 votes in favour. But it wasn't the same assembly of Parliament. They weren't the same parties. Now we have a bunch of actors that exist on the scene that didn't exist before. They have a lack of identification with that process. The element of identification is very important in life. If you have no identification, you do not care and therefore this ease of playing with something that has been internationally assumed by the Croatian Parliament, confirmed by the Croatian people in the referendum. And only someone who did not follow that debate or read at least one publication of the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs and not of the Government that took place in December 2011 but of the Government that did so for two years 2010, in 2011 systematically went through Croatia and interpreted what the European Union had done. Not only does freedom of movement explain what the euro is, when the euro, how the euro and what benefits are from the euro. As far as all these statistics are concerned, we put in this report all the data that is correct. If anyone finds any information that's incorrect, I'll apologize and we'll correct it. But we rarely make mistakes in the data. As we interpret them, it's already a matter of "Switzerland" and these others. As for demographics, the measures we're going to take, and of course it's going to be part of next year's budget, where we're going to increase parental fees, that's the other six months where we've already come from about two and a half to five and six thousand kunas. So more than 3,000 kunas. Now we're going to raise it to seven and a half thousand kuna. It's certainly an encouraging demographic measure with a package of other measures, and I think it's good to take care of that, too. As for the subject of employment or unemployment, we today have unemployment at 7.3. We have a million and 600,000 insurance. We haven't had them in 13 years, in the biggest crisis. If that's a legacy, let it be in Switzerland. As for fuel prices to intervene in this way at a time when the whole world is faced with rising prices primarily of gas, but also other energy products in a way that stabilises expectations of Croatian citizens and Croatian economies lightningly, agilely, quickly, in time without anyone who is either a producer or a distributor, of which there is too much damage because it is not there, has a certain lower profit but will survive. These are powerful, powerful companies with broad shoulders and for the benefit of Croatian citizens. This means to act for the citizens quickly and efficiently. To deal with other topics such as Agrokor today and try as a representative of the platform We can demonstrate its top natural management ability to personnel in Zagreb Holding and talk about how legitimate this government is about Agrokor. Well, dear lady, the Legacy of this government regarding Agrokor is that the company that has come into trouble is unrelated to our first government. We never dreamed of dealing with it that way. Legacy is that there are 30,000 jobs left in Croatia, in the company. Legacy is that there are 30,000 jobs left in the neighborhood. Legacy is that all the suppliers stayed on their feet, otherwise they would have fallen like a map tower. And that the family farms got the money the company owed. It's Legacy. Why today is owned by someone who is primarily a bank or other shareholders, and I don't know the Croatian State. Well, that requires a little bit of knowledge. And who owns it than the one who gave some company so much money, that he became a believer from the creditor. So what does a great philosophy and mathematics need, so that it can be understood by not asking the government, not ours, not anyone else. That's what to say. It's Legacy. And that kind of crisis facing practically in the third month of our first government and that kind of situation where we managed to get through it so well and it's effective plus. It's a big plus as a legacy and if it's in Switzerland it's good. As for rebuilding from the earthquake, it's true, I've said it several times, we're not satisfied with the dynamics of the restoration, so we're going with the amendments to the law that the council is confident I'm going to support on Friday. We will have a cabinet session tomorrow and react to some amendments that are proposed and everyone involved has a huge task to speed up the process. The story of temporary accommodation, I'll remind you one more time. Everyone, but everyone whose houses or apartments were damaged had the opportunity to receive alternative accommodation from the first day, since the end of December of last year. Anyone who chose to stay near his home from the Maya Fields did so on his own choice and decided to stay by the damaged house in the container, not go to some hotel or other accommodation. And therefore temporary accommodation can be as it is, and comment that the state, I stress that the thesis I once said in public, is too many actors in the air working to demonstrate not only the state and its institutions but also the state institution at all. It is one trend that has affected Croatia, which has only 30 years of experience of independence and independence in democracy. That trend is not good. I'm against that trend. I think he's broke for Croatian society. Destroyed for confidence in institutions or all actors who have some hat to call it that, some title and it spills over into the confidence of those citizens who listen to unverified sources in the Internet communication world and do not vaccinate. It's connected. It's not unrelated. If we keep living in the atmosphere of mistrust with the state, state institutions, government, politics, then we're not going to believe anything. Well, that was the point of the opening part of the speech that trust is the most important element of the agreement between citizens and institutions. Without him, there's nothing. Without him, there's nothing we can do. If we're all gonna do this especially for these Swiss people, I'm cramming this so that someone in Switzerland doesn't get me wrong all the time working on mistrust, then we won't get out much. We're going to live in a conflicting atmosphere, we're going to live in a conflicting context where instead of something we're going to see, we're just from some amazingland, and these Swiss people are going to see everything differently. Because it's the taste of this debate, of these comments. Read the report again, I think it's already been published. If you find the wrong information inside, I'll apologize. If you don't find them then our optics are important, importantly different. As for the activities that are ahead of us, which I think are very important and important, which is that both in the fight against Covid and in the process of rebuilding and in the process of economic recovery, but also in creating an atmosphere in society, we must make a joint effort where we will remove discouragement, eliminate it. Where we'll show at least a minimum degree of unity if we can. Where we will show the strength of Croatian people, society, state, institutions to overcome crises and difficulties. I said in the biggest crisis we adopted all strategic documents and secured the most funds and we still have political stability for three years, without a choice. A unique opportunity for both steps and project implementation. And that's why it seems to me that with the National Recovery Plan, Resistance, Government Programme, Projects, Investments, we can make the efforts of Croatian society Do better, do better. [[Intruder: Please do not get from the bench.]] Much better than it is now. And what I would especially underline and what I think is most important is to create a little optimism if we can. That's not bad. A little motivating to affect the citizens, positive. Why don't we use the crisis for opportunities, these circumstances for development, for strengthening trust, for stepping up and for progress, for modernising, for catching steps. A constant count where Croatia is compared to other EU members, okay, if we were the founding country we would probably be among the top 3 on each criteria, but we are not. We got in the last one through the ear of the needle. And the HDZ government has completed negotiations, not the one from Switzerland. That's also important to say. And that's why I insist on it in the fight against corruption. I said, you can say whatever you want to us, but if something is clear, there's no untouchable, there isn't. They don't exist that I don't know where they came from and that I don't know who they are. And it's not coming for a moment, a signal, a directive or the approval of an executive head so that the DORH, the BOOK or the police will do something. It's not there. That might have been it. It's been admitted to be, but now it's gone. Impact on the courts, so where is it? If we had that effect on the courts, I doubt some of the grand judgments would have been the way they were two weeks ago. Where is that influence in court? How? Where? Where is it? There isn't. It can be invented from Swiss optics, desired, created in some raving, in some dream, but it's gone. It doesn't exist and it won't exist. And it's this transformative process that lasts, goes and sees. Branko was talking about the support he has, and I understand that you're not happy that we have support, but she's not here because we're calculating or maybe opportunistically avoiding a crisis of great economic or natural disasters or a global character. On the contrary, they come to everything we do and we are here on our feet and we will continue to gain the trust of Croatian citizens as much as anyone from Switzerland didn't like it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66660	I thank the Prime Minister. Three injuries to the Rules of Procedure, I've noticed no injuries to the Rules of Procedure, but please have a business right to point out what you see as a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66661	Thank you very much, President. The prime minister injured Ruler 238's article by demeaning parliamentary MPs and we bought you a statement, I bought the prime minister a vaccine. Citizens have paid for the vaccine as they pay for him and all of us, and parliamentary deputies are above the prime minister in this case, so protect the dignity of this assembly, the honourable speaker of the assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66662	Comrade Bulj, you have now received a warning this was no violation of the Rules of Procedure. And the other thing I'd like to say before all the colleagues who are about to speak, so there's been a debate without any intervention and no one has asked for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, which I find very correct. 12 clubs have spoken and there have been very critical interpretations of both the Prime Minister and his associates and no one has asked for a breach of the Rules of Procedure or from the ruling majority club, so we've followed the rules, we've been fair and correct, what you're doing now is misbehaving again, but you have the right to this Rules of Procedure, and I'm going to give you notice. Here you go, fellow Kekin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66663	So, violation of the Rules of Procedure. 238. Insulting and dissuasion of the MPs by carrying out the false. So, the prime minister is telling the lies of Mr. Herman and Mr. Filipovic, and the last one who should even be talking about humanizing since the two-digit number of ministers flew out of the last government...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66664	Comrade Kekin, I'm asking you to stop.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66665	for corruption and also since now at the top of the assembly there are people who were close...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66666	.../Intruder President: You are getting your first warning now./...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66667	Evey Sanader. So the last one that should be talking about...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66668	.../Intruder President: You are getting a second warning./...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66669	personneling.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66670	And one more and you'd get a takeaway. But you spoke before the Prime Minister and you said a whole series of things that I consider false and you didn't receive any notice or any sanctions, because you have the right to speak in that statement as well as the Prime Minister, and that is no violation of the Rules of Procedure. So, you got two warnings. Well, you don't understand anything at all if you don't know what I'm saying. Here you go, fellow Oreshkovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure, to hear what's been hurt.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66671	Thank you, Chairman. There's no need for this kind of excitement. He's been injured. In 238, there was indeed a rude demeaning of the representatives, so we are MPs, opposition representatives of the Republic of Croatia, not Switzerland. I am very sorry that there is no other business mechanism, except for raising the staff of the Rules of Procedure, thanks to HDZ, which has made such rules of procedure
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66672	.../Intruder President: Comrade Oreshkovic, come on./...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66673	through which we might indicate that...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66674	.../Intruder President: You are being warned about what you are saying because it has nothing to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure./...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66675	the things that have been said are not suitable for the integrity of HS.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66676	Have a seat, get a second warning. You're getting two warnings. And very incorrectly, and I'm sorry that at the end of this debate, we could have finished it and brought it in line with the rules, but it's obvious that this desire to be seen and heard above what we have defined in our Rules of Procedure. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66677	Thank you very much, President. You've hurt an officer. 238 with your conduct, insulting parliamentary representatives, mostly MPs. You do not have the right to react in this way, you have the right to give a warning, and you cannot give counsel a lecture as well as what he meant. I didn't insult anyone. I just said to protect us from the Prime Minister. Parliament and you, and here you have literally offended your colleague for no reason...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66678	.../Intruder President: Here is my colleague Bulj, colleague Bulj./...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66679	The lady gave her representative her position and that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66680	Comrade Bull, you know very well how long it's been a violation of the Rules of Procedure, and what isn't and when...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66681	.../Intruder Bulj: So give a warning don't give a lecture./...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66682	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. We're not just gonna get someone to take a breach of the rules of procedure, give a lecture, give a reply to a certain number of MPs or representatives of the government, and I'm just gonna give a heads-up and shut up. I won't, because it's not fair on my part, but it's on the side of whoever's doing it and it's my duty to warn and comment on it. Here are my colleagues, Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66683	Art. 238th Insulting Parliamentarians and that, Mr. President, is directly from you. You have no right to interrupt, this is exactly what you want to do right now, I have my 30 seconds on which this Rules of Procedure gives me the right. You don't have the right to interrupt your colleague Kekin while she's looking for a breach of the rules of procedure and I'm really asking you to hold the level of conversation in this assembly and not insult her under your knees like that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66684	My colleagues, Raukar Gamulin, will now choose the words, but you do not know the art. 238, as in Art. 238, In 238, he said, "The reasons for the protraction of the strict measures, the representative during the debate, must not start a speech on another subject which he did not get the matter if he reported for the breach of the Rules of Procedure." So it is clear after the third sentence that it is about replicating, rather than hurting the Rules of Procedure, that it is my duty to interrupt whoever is doing it and who is doing it. And please read the Rules of Procedure and, in particular, the Rules of Procedure before you proceed with the violations of the Rules of Procedure. In 238, and you will see that the chairman is not at all rigorous and strict because there is a much wider framework here for warning than what is happening. You've been warned. You're reporting again, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66685	Mr. President-in-Office of the Assembly. I was looking for a violation of the Rules of Procedure under 238 for insulting the MPs and representatives of HS on your part, you did, and that's why I asked for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66686	So, you said that I hurt the Rules of Procedure because I interrupted my counsel the moment I estimated that she hurt the Rules of Procedure and that's an art. 238. That's why I gave her a warning and why I'm going to give you another warning now. Now I'm closing the debate, and we'll vote when the conditions are met. I thank the Prime Minister and the vice-presidents of the government who were here.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66688	We now move to: - Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Fund for the financing of the decommissioning and disposal of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel nuclear power plants Krško, first reading, P.Z. No. 178. The proposer shall be the Government under Article. 85th Constitution and Art. 172. The Rules of Procedure of HS. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection. I would now ask for an additional explanation from the State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development, Ivo Milatić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66689	Dear Vice President HS...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66690	I ask you first nicely to sit in your seats, not to talk, to allow the speaker to speak, as you want others to allow you to speak, and so you please now allow the representative of the government to speak. Here's your honorary secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66691	Thank you, Mr. Honorable Vice-President HS, the Honorable Parliamentarians and MPs. In front of you is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Fund for the financing of the decommissioning and disposal of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel from Krško Nuclear Power Plants. The Republic of Croatia is directly through HEP owner of half the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. The plant's work began in the 1980s, and the owner's intention is to continue the successful operation of the plant in the next 20 years. In accordance with the interstate contract between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the arrangement of status and other legal relations regarding investments, use and decommissioning of the Krško Republic Nuclear Power Plant, it is also required to take care of its half of the low and medium radioactive waste generated during the operation of the plant. Accordingly, the Republic of Croatia took responsibility for the decommissioning of the power plant after the completion of the operation and the disposal of nuclear waste generated during the operation of the power plant, but also during its future decommissioning. It is therefore necessary to establish a radioactive waste disposal centre that will take over the fulfilment of that obligation. In order to ensure the resources for those activities, 2003 A decommissioning program was developed for Krško Nuclear Power Plant and the disposal of spent fuel radioactive waste adopted in 2004. The programme clearly determines how to decommission the plant and the amount of radioactive waste to be taken care of. The programme also defines the cost of decommissioning and care that is in the obligation of owners. GEN from the Republic of Slovenia and HEP from the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with this 2006 Government of the Republic of Croatia Regulation, It is determined that HEP is to be paid up every year for these purposes. Since then, HEP has been making regular payments on funds intended for implementation of the programme. That's why it's 2007. Founded Fund for the financing of the decommissioning and disposal of radioactive waste spent nuclear fuel Krško nuclear power plant and its structure is regulated by this law also adopted in 2007. In view of the above, and since the adoption of the Fund Act, the provisions of the Fund Act have not been in line with the legal and sublaw implementing rules in the field of radiological and nuclear security adopted or amended in the meantime. It shall directly affect the activities, powers and obligations of the Fund. This proposal therefore intends to settle several issues. The first of them is which state body is exercising founding rights in relation to the fund. It is also more clear which body the Fund responds to for its work, but also the scope of the fund's responsibilities, fund operations, scope and guarantees for the work of the fund. This bill is proposed in parallel with the draft law amending and supplementing the Radiological and Nuclear Security Act. In particular, these amendments and amendments to the laws are proposed to comply with the provisions of the Radiological and Nuclear Security Act relating to the establishment of the Radioactive Waste Management Centre. Also in the applicable Article. 52. The Radiological and Nuclear Security Act provides for the adoption of regulations governing compensation for the disposal of radioactive waste, used sources and compensation to the local community. Content of the above art. 52. will be taken over by this bill, in particular Art. 8th Amendment of Art. Ten. The fund law. The law also complies with the decision on the adoption of the National Programme for the implementation of the strategy for the disposal of radioactive waste, used sources and spent nuclear fuel. Therefore, this proposal will address all issues related to the formation and functioning of the Centre for the Management of Radioactive Waste, which is a very valuable investment project, which fulfils the obligations undertaken by an inter-state contract, so it is important to define all participants, their obligations and their rights, as well as their responsibilities and their part-time jobs for the implementation of such a project. Finally, the disposal of radioactive waste, used sources and spent nuclear fuel is of strategic interest to the Republic of Croatia, and the legislation makes it clear that European legislation is related to what is also confirmed by the adoption of the strategy and the National Programme for Implementation of the Strategy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66692	Thank you, please stay because there are strangely more replicas. He's the first respected representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66693	Thank you very much. Secretary of State, the nuclear power plant is owned and co-owned by the Republic of Croatia. We're talking about very dangerous waste, are all the measures taken, and do we know where the waste will be dumped, who will manage it and how? We're set here for green policies. We have certain obligations. However, in my previous experience with waste management, especially when it comes to hazardous waste, I doubt that we have these abilities. I can talk about the Long War, trying to put it in the miner's code, along with the river Cetina, so that these industrial wastes, all the way up to this nuclear waste from the nuke Krško is under investigation. Do you know the locations and how anyone will manage it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66694	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66695	Thank you for your question, Reverend Bull. As far as the waste is low and medium radioactive is concerned, it is located within the plant from the very design of the power plant to the present day. We also made a commitment by means of an interstate contract that at some point half of that wastes, we must take over as well. From all that you have been able to publicly see and read from government decisions and all strategies so far, we have foreseen the location of the Trade Mountain as a potential location in the programme. Is this location really going to depend clearly on all those procedures under the Environmental Protection Act, in accordance with the law, in accordance with the rules of the International Atomic Energy Agency and all the positive regulations, given that it is a border area in terms of and relations between the two countries clearly that our intensities to make this happen and it clearly complies with the law and with all possible parliamentary these security programmes. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66696	Dear representative Maric. Thank you very much, please stick to the order.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66697	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, here I am, in preparation for this bill, getting a lot of information, so this location of the future radioactive waste disposal centre is predicted as you said it would be a former military Cherkevac. Now I'm curious, so I've been trying a little bit to figure out how much money has been spent so far, here's an analysis of the zero radiological situation that provides for $3.87 million, public relations 3 million, and then you've got project documentation, and then you've got a study of earthquake hazard 1.8 million. So we're predicting that the center will start from 2023, how long until now for this, everything I've been counting on spent money? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66698	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66699	Now, in order not to tell you something wrong, all this has been publicly published on the Fund's website for, for the decommissioning of Krško Nuclear Power Plant, so let me remember that you would not want to speak now, and so more millions have been spent clearly for these studies and there are additional studies that are being done. Clearly, this is nothing cheap because it is serious research that will cost significant resources. We worked apart from these ecological and environmental types of earthquakes and everyone else, we did social studies and impact on the development of agriculture, impact on the population with Ivo Pilar Institute. So already some of the results of these studies have been published on the fund's website, and soon info point is being prepared in the Court where citizens will be able to get all this information on these studies and the like.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66700	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative, Kirin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66701	Dear Vice President, respected members of the ministry, at first nuclear energy was a potential solution for clean and long energy independence on fossil fuels, but an incident in '79. years, then '86. Chernobyl, 2011. Fukushima rocked high expectations of nuclear energy. The problem of nuclear waste disposal as nuclear waste ends, retains its properties of harmful, dangerous waste for up to 100 years, 100,000 years. The half-life of long-term byproduct of conventional reactors is 23,100 years. Storage must be done according to particularly strict standards in particular geological characteristics of the terrain. Unfettered soil and zero radiological measurements to determine the existing level of radioactivity of the environment. Would you please let the Trade Mountain and this Cherkevac meet the criteria?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66702	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66703	Thank you for your question. You've now asked all kinds of fuel. We're only talking about low and medium-active fuel here, fuel this waste is not fuel that would take care of in the potential location we're talking about here, and what you're talking about is saving in geological structures, that would be spent fuel. It is certainly not a Cherkevac and it is not a single location in Croatia. It will be very certain, if one day, if the technology doesn't show up in the meantime that this same waste turns into something useful. It will probably be another country because you know that there are countries and large European countries where 60% of the energy is from nuclear, nuclear sources that already have capacities both this and the areas for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66704	Dear Representative Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66705	Dear secretary, the law's impact assessment said that the nuclear waste management centre has not yet been established, it was stated that the warehouse has not yet been built, and we know that Croatia has signed a request for nuclear equalisation with green energy, it was signed about 15 days ago. So it is likely that in Croatia we too will be looking for an alternative source of energy until all that needs to be brought into line in order to have real green energy. The assumption is that then we too will have some additional investment in nuclear capacity or that we will.../incomprehensible/... additional capacity for electricity from nuclear power plants. Does the construction of this warehouse intend to build more capacity so that any later wastes that would come if they were actually going in that direction?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66706	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66707	As far as we've been communicating with other countries clearly, we've been communicating because today we have three terrawatts of nuclear power coming from neighbouring Slovenia, where we're co-owners as states or via electro-privreda, and it's clear that our desire is possible that if there is an expansion it will continue to be. So it's not about a potential location in the Republic of Croatia in terms of a nuclear power plant but possibly in Slovenia. And as far as capacity is concerned, it is clear that the capacities of this warehouse would not only be for what comes from Krško Nuclear Power Plant either in these capacities or perhaps some future ones but also what is institutional waste. So it is clear that this capacity should be designed to resolve some decades, but that the Croatian public would not think that some of the terrible large capacities are not at all big squares and great losses.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66708	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66709	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State Miletic. Since there is a mess in Croatia in everything and in the storage of waste, I am not even sure that all radioactive waste ends where it should be, I would like to mention an example of the phosphogyps dump in Kutina, which was created as a byproduct of the production of phosphorus acid in Petrochemia. After Petrochemy was privatized, a phosphogypse dump was sold, and the current phosphogypse dump is stored by a saturition mud from Vukovar and I don't know where it all comes from, I don't even know if they have permission to do such a thing there since they should take care of that dump. phosphogips should be taken care of, not something else that cannot be stored anywhere at present in Croatia. I also doubt that, then, radioactive substances can be brought here because obviously no one controls what is done there. I've also referred this to you as a representative question to your ministry, I'm warning you this way. I managed to get down with the television, and I'm afraid it's not all cover-up, and I'm asking you to give me an explanation for what's going on in the box at the phosphogypse dump.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66710	Dear Secretary of State. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66711	Thanks for asking. What's going on in the dump is exactly what I can't answer you right now except for what you said about your knowledge. I can only tell you that I'm going to pass on what you said to my colleagues in environmental protection, or in that part of the waste business, so I'm assuming that the state inspectorate is in charge of this, so it's no problem to inform the state inspectorate that they're going to see what's really going on. I don't think anyone can do anything that isn't legally allowed, that's what I can tell you, and I guess someone's taking care of it. And as far as this part of the bill is concerned, which we have organised clearly to organise it in a way that, by the highest environmental and any safety standards, that waste management would be in accordance with the regulations, whether waste is from the power plant or from the institution in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66712	Honorable representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66713	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. Your Honor, Secretary of State. So, from Krško Nuklearka, 16% is energy, electricity from the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with the agreements that we have every three months, we make certain payments related to, or not us, but through HEP, I am interested in the level of the year in which the payments are or are calculated and in which part of the Republic of Croatia pays that energy. Otherwise, nuclear energy will in particular draw attention to this signing where there are 10 ministers, with us Deputy Prime Minister Maric and your Minister, or Minister Coric, to sign an agreement on nuclear energy, and it will certainly require special, to me it seems, in particular, some kind of attitude and idea of what nuclear energy is in the context of climate change. But right now, I'm asking you to answer this question that's about finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66714	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66715	Thank you. As regards the payment by HEP means according to the first revision HEP was obliged and it neatly executes 14.2m euros per year to invest in the Fund for financing, decommissioning and disposal of radioactive waste of the NEK Fund our famous and he does this neat work. The third revision given by this esteemed home and we adopted it on the interstate commission talks about the fact that HEP will now pay a little less, I think, somewhere around 2m euros less. Certainly HEP is doing it neatly and HEP pays the electricity to Krško Nuclear Power Plant. So HEP pays the power to Krško Nuclear Power Plant and pays neatly to the NEK Fund, so far HEP has deposited billions and 800 million kunas in the NEC Fund, the value of the NEC Fund on today at 30.6. 700 million more than that billion and 800.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66716	Dear Representative Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66717	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Secretary of State, let's plastically explain to the Croatian public, so first we have to by law now is finally time to store some junk and then we're talking about how we're looking for a place. So, of course nobody's gonna be too happy about it, but if I get it right, we have to do it, number one. Number two, what would happen if, for example, The Croatian state said tomorrow here from next month we will no longer use any single Watt current from Krško Nuclear Power Plant, what would happen in Croatia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66718	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66719	The correct information is that we must store the waste because we have committed ourselves to an interstate contract and because it is simply the functioning of the power plant where we are co-owners and we are responsible owners. It is also true that we have not solved even institutional waste in the Republic of Croatia, which is perhaps an even bigger problem than the Krško Nuclear Power Plant itself, and it is clear that if we had now made this one decision that would not be normal to me but to the very least, it would have praised somewhere three terrawatts of electricity that would certainly not have been paid around 40 euros. Take a look at today's stock exchanges and see how much this would only affect the GDP of the Republic of Croatia generally at the price of electricity Croatian citizens are paying in fact in the universal service 53 euros megawatt of electricity. With that I told you everything, look how our Europeans are paying for electricity.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66720	Thank you. Dear representative Simunic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66721	Your Honor, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, do you agree with experts who believe that the Republic of Croatia does not need to build its own nuclear waste disposal site, how much would it cost to build, and how much would it cost to pay another state to install spent nuclear fuel from Krško Nuclear Power Plants? That means whether you calculated the difference between the cost of a radioactive waste disposal center if we paid and paid another country to store that waste for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66722	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66723	Thanks for asking. Of course, we've been looking into situations like this to eventually do the same thing to someone else. There is no one else but Slovenia. This and if theoretically Slovenia agreed to what did not agree with the government's decision, Slovenia did not agree with the government's decision to accept Croatian institutional waste, but possibly to discuss and negotiate only waste from Krško Nuclear Power Plant, but then we as Croatia did not solve it. And this whole story would cost one 140m euros more than to work in Croatia according to all our calculations. So, apart from being more expensive, we haven't solved everything, so we're simply here, as the esteemed representative Miletic said, we're actually forced to think seriously about this solution, and this administration is getting rid of it after years of speech and serious talk and taking it seriously, and here's what you've noticed and we're about at the location and we're trying to get rid of all these documents to solve it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66724	Thank you. Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66725	Thank you very much, Vice President. The secretary of state cannot agree that we are forced to do something because the European directive clearly speaks when it comes to the disposal of radioactive waste that states can agree to take care of it in one area, so we do not have to build our own dump. You have now mentioned that there have been some conversations with Slovenia because my opinion is that really Slovenia should be opened dialogue since we know that they have already built a tape that they planned to store both Croatian low and medium radioactive waste, or Croatian share in Nuklearca Krško. We know that by the end of the working life of Nuklearka Krško in Croatia, 50 m3 of low and medium radioactive waste will be produced, that's what happens in medicine through various research, it's thunders, etc. I don't think 50 m3 should build a dump in Croatia, especially after the earthquake that took place in the Banovina area just along the border with BiH.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66726	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66727	Well, thanks for asking. As you said, states can be negotiated, but that doesn't mean we made a deal. I've actually already responded in my previous answer. We have spoken and tried to talk to the Republic of Slovenia, but their categorical refusal of institutional waste forces us as a state that we simply must seek another solution. We haven't located other countries in the neighborhood or any of them who would be interested in us talking about it, but the options stand as you said in both international and any other rules that we can talk about and we don't know what will bring us the future, but for now we have this as the only option that we now think is real and we're moving on with it for now.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66728	Dear representative Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66729	Thank you very much, esteemed Vice President HS, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Since in the strategy of providing radioactive waste as a preferred location, we have heard that it is a preferred location, so there is still hope that it is not a final location, and you are saying that in the context of the document being prepared that will show whether it is an optimal location or not. What I would like to ask you, and what were the parallel locations in relation to the location of Cerkezovac and is the location of Cerkezovac as planned and in their local spatial plans? I'll answer you right now because I assume your answer. It would be very good if, after 2018, when a decision was made on the development of a spatial plan of the Republic of Croatia to finally government the Republic of Croatia and to make sure that this plan is made and that you, or the national level, would bear the responsibility of selecting such locations, not to bring it down to the local population, which btw is linked to this dump, is very categorically opposed.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66730	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66731	Clearly, you said everything more or less about your question and answered. We must respect all legal procedures here from these environmental, security and such spatial planning and clearly that we will act in this direction. This, there were some problems that this location was in the county's spatial plan, so that it was clearly excluded, that the administrative procedure on this topic had not yet been implemented which would certainly return it, but I absolutely agree with you that it is a national plan that will not only solve this problem but also many other problems. And how much information I have on this is being seriously worked at the Ministry of Spatial Planning and Construction and State Property, and we clearly support it because it's not just this. In our part it is important for both power lines and other infrastructure facilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66732	Honorable representative Ante Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66733	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, while we are already on the subject of Krsko Nuclear Power Plants, we have heard the announcements of construction, meaning the second block of the plant itself, we as a state are interested, but there are negotiations with the Hungarians regarding the construction of the Paks 2 nuclear power plant, so I am interested in what is with these two projects, because when we look at the EU level and strengthen the green option in a lot of EU-wide countries, there is a huge resistance to construction, but the improvement of existing nuclear power plants, and we know that the European Commission itself is currently at the stage of the Green Europe project, so I am interested at the level of the EU Commission itself as well as their expansion, but the construction of new capacities is in line with the new Commission project itself, which is Green Europe itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66734	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66735	Thank you. So I'll start with this last thing you said, so that's why we joined other countries in supporting that nuclear energy in EU taxonomy is the energy that will be treated as the energy that doesn't emit CO2, that's actually the whole story that's most important in all of this. And it is clear that it is always the conversation with the neighbours that is desirable, but objectively Slovenia and the possibility of a possible agreement on a future block at Krško Nuclear Power Plant for a number of reasons much bigger and better option because there is already one valid collaboration that works, because it is the technology that has definitely proved to be one of the safest in the world, I would dare say the most secure in the world.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66736	Honorable representative Sablar Dračevac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66737	Thank you, Vice President. Secretary of State,... radioactive waste from Krško Nuclear Power Plant is quite robust, what are the plans for the disposal of this radioactive waste and how is it intended to transport to Croatia or to the Health Committee, have told us that there are some presses in Europe where this volume would be reduced, but how much would it cost us to drive and transport waste? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66738	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66739	Thanks for asking. Certainly, that waste would not, at present in a certain state at a nuclear power plant and must be processed and reduced and processed in specific technologies, placed in certain containers or barrels of the same kind, and reassembled into concrete cubes and, as such, returned to a potential landfill. So it's now a simple thing that all the power plants and all the kinds of such waste in the world are doing, it's clearly not cheap, it's going to be as much. We have foreseen in our calculations that we have these resources and that this will be done very definitely in other countries and will return to Croatia, and for this very certain and before this esteemed home may come an interstate contract that will sanction it all.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66740	Thank you. Dear representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66741	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State. I found it quite shocking to have your opening statement, namely in the part where you said that this law was changing in some way the institutional framework, the way in which you exercise your founding rights, the way you control the work of the leaders within the fund, I expected you to make a comparison of the situation that we have had so far with what comes from the obligation to comply with our legislation with the directives. These clarifications are particularly important if the other issues referred to you by the MPs are taken into account as to whether there could be any indication of what the agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Slovenia could be and what is the plan to deal with radioactive waste both in the future and now. Something more about it I think you'd really be obliged to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66742	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66743	Thank you. So in two lines, the new law predicts more and more government involvement in reporting and in direct reporting about everything else, means the part where we had previously had to submit something to the ministry now and that part we have determined to go to the government, aware of the facts of the importance of this general problem that it simply goes to the government. And as for potential future situations as it would be, it is clear that one day when a dump is created and it gets all the permits it will have a certain capacity, it will be envisaged in spatial plans and in case some new blocks happen and that for the next 20, 30 years the same problem will be much easier to build and work on additional capacities than what we are doing today that we have to do again.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66744	Dear Representative Miro Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66745	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honor, Secretary of State. Over time, somehow whenever the use of nuclear energy was mentioned, then it caused some fear, and that fear led to the fact that at one point it almost stopped building new nuclear power plants at all. What I'm glad to realize now is that it's actually a greater danger for citizens, for our country, for Europe, for the whole world, for the entire population on Earth of CO2 than nuclear energy. You have concluded here that nuclear energy is very safe, but I still have to work very hard to explain to the citizens that it really is. There is little help here and this fact that as we go towards clean energy, we need nuclear energy, but another part, the Krško nuclear power plant has been working for 38 years, and there is a temporary disposal of this waste, and we need to explain to the citizens that actually a permanent warehouse is much safer than that temporary plant that has been there in Krško for 38 years now, and we are now measuring and there is no danger for the health of the people around the power plant.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66746	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66747	Yes, I absolutely agree with you that nuclear energy, or nuclear power plants, is truly safe. Unfortunately, these two excesses have happened in the past decades that have been rocking a little bit, but as far as our nukes are concerned, not ours but ours together with our friends from Slovenia, she's really safe and she's really one of the power plants where when people from Japan come in, they literally admire and wonder how much that quality of security is and the standards are good at it. This would agree with you, and it's certainly in that state at the power plant now, let alone tomorrow when it's prepared and built into a proper dump, but the fact is that more and more countries are thinking of a nuclear power plant as pure, clean energy. Some countries were wrong, so they banned, and then they started opening up to coal, which is absolutely wrong that today... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66748	Thank you. Honorable representative of Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66749	Thank you, Vice President. Secretary of State, you're talking about the safest energy in the world and you're talking about two excess, an excess of Chernobyl is an excess for you. Blackness is a terrible tragedy, Fukushima is a minor tragedy, and there are still excesses, that there are, one part of what is smaller, it could only come to an excess level. I agree that nuclear energy is now being questioned, but certainly not in the sense that it would be green energy, because radioactivity will certainly take 100 years, even longer and it will need to be dealt with. But the truth is that this crisis that you don't want to declare in the assembly is a very climate crisis that's why you're even thinking about nuclear energy this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66750	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66751	Well, I would agree, perhaps, if I were an excess this perhaps a little thoughtlessly, I would agree with you if it were serious disasters, but when it's all about globally, it's clear that there's a lot of situations that are safe and logical and this is also that within the EU, it's seriously starting to think about nuclear energy because what the EU has given itself a few years ago. where she said she didn't want to be dependent on the import of energy, here's the situation that's now happening around the North Stream and everything else, and they've shown how vulnerable the EU is and clearly that now European countries between which we are here and we're thinking that we need to organize ourselves in a way that we produce as much energy within Europe as possible and that it's free of CO2 footprints.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66752	Thank you very much. Now I'm opening a debate on this wheel. On behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club, the first representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic will speak. He's gone, he's losing his right to speak, and then he'll speak on behalf of the Representatives' Club of the Most Honored Representative Marin Miletic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66753	Dear Vice President HS Mr. Reiner, the esteemed secretary of state with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. So at the Mosta Club, we keep ourselves a green party, it is the Bridge of the beginning, many of our members, from Mira Bulj, I don't need to talk about what he was doing for the green policies, Josip Catalinić in Rijeka, our county coordinator, the most engaged in the field of the Mariščina problem, and I am personally here through... 20 years in some environmental action. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] But green is not the fashionable badge that we're going to put on our jacket and wear, so we're going to make some ideologies out of it. He says that those who do not find God to whom they would worship then find the 10th and other gods to worship is whether, but we will not enter philosophy now, I am more relaxed in the assembly, so that will come on the subject. Philosophy and theology, don't give me dear and respected fellow Matula from the bench. So, really, if someone didn't misread this exhibit of mine, I wouldn't go here either pro or vice versa, but I'd like to objectively look at what nuclear energy really is and I'd like to talk about it without emotion and without what I've said ideologies, and the facts are next. French President Macron announced the construction of six new nukes a few days ago, so Macron came in, they had, so they said that France with 70%, you know that over 65% of state secretaries use their energy from nukes, so they said they'd lower it to 50, al-hop the oil crisis, the gas crisis, if no one touches the French, we'll build another 6 nukes, it's France, it's not, and I'm sorry it's not someone, I don't want to offend anyone whether, some Zimbabwe or someone you understand, it's France, right? The drastic rise in energy prices has led people, they want to keep an eye on their country and their people who live there. So, the UK announced it, I don't know if you know, so in the United States 20% of total energy comes from nukes, Finland finally ends up building and there's Hungary and we're going to build a nuke. The UN Economic Commission for Europe in August published a document saying that nuclear energy could help, quote them, in achieving the climate objectives set out in the Paris Agreement and in the Agenda for Sustainable Development 2.0 and 3.0, so I didn't read it from Alan Ford or Baba Wang or I don't know, that's what they are, they are green policies, they, they, they advocate whether it is. In a brief report of the new technology, the agency warned that time is running out for the rapid transformation of the global energy system because fossil fuels continue to account for more than half of electricity production in many countries, continents, etc., etc. So what we know is that nuclear energy is pure in a number of ways, its CO2 emissions are practically equal to zeroes, even lower than the solar-related emissions. It takes a very small area by unit of energy produced, far less than most other energy sources. For example, solar panels or wind turbines have to be deployed on an enormous surface to create similar energy as a nuclearian can, they depend on the sun, on the wind, on some stable energy sources. Here if you're powering up from some nuke, so you don't depend on any external incentives. I read Bill Gates, says the one about flexible reactors, says they don't have any problems, that's his... Some project is working on a reactor that's cooled with sodium. [[The speaker speaks English, he doesn't understand.]] So instead of using heat directly to start the turbine and power generation, it stores the heat in the melted salt container where it can be used to produce electricity as needed. So we've heard really about the terrible haasars that have happened. That's quite a hoax. So, catastrophes, major disasters. Now what do the data say? Here are the United Nations, are they telling the truth or not? You know, we're always selective, what we like, what you take out of the Bible, and it doesn't matter sooner or later. And there's no... The United Nations says that in the largest nuclear carnage ever in Chernobyl, there have been 50 direct radiation deaths and 4000 radiation-induced deaths in the United Nations consortium. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] That's what the United Nations said, if they're lying, I'm lying now. On the other hand, fossil sources have caused more than 7 million premature deaths in the world in just a year because of air pollution. In order for someone not to get me wrong, MOST is definitely for renewable energy sources, we will advocate it, very clearly and should have clean and reliable energy, need a quality solution to storage, procedures about it. But don't overdo it and squeeze the mosquito, so I can paint myself, while parallel to other technologies, like this, look through your fingers. And here we're gonna be squishing the mosquito, and there's, like, anything that can be done, so you can't do it all. So, I wouldn't be wrong to say that the fossil speech industry is a little bit, forgive me for the dictionary, fueled the atmosphere around the nuke, about the nuclear energy because they were competition, you know how competitive they are, because then they're always not good, okay. So people are always afraid of something unknown. Some of my friends never, they said that while they're alive they wouldn't travel on a plane even though flying is the safest trip in the world, but fear when they show up at an individual's house, that's what's causing it. It was interesting for me to read that since the Americans started with their nukes, there's a ho-ho-years, completely their entire waste, there's a colleague who's had an intervention, so maybe, right away, I thought of it, it's this interesting, it fits on a field of their American football. So everything the nukes in the United States have ever produced to date, it's on one playground. So, just so our public knows, so it's not now if we bring it to Zagreb or my fumes, so we'll whoever Ucka is gonna be some hill and then we'll all be dying. So that's a little different after all, that whole story. Also, for example, when I mentioned France where we have 70%, so we heard, almost 70% of the energy from the nukes, so 0.2% of the total radioactive waste per volume is classified as highly radioactive waste, and we here Secretary of State, if I understood correctly, we're not talking about that kind of radioactive waste, because we wouldn't receive those 0.2%, we wouldn't have stored somewhere, but so which 0.1, 0.02, almost got me into something else with the statistics, but I won't, I'm going to hold on, I'm smart, no. So the MOST Club is clear, that Croatia must go towards green policies and green transformation, it is clear to us, but we will fight, as far as we can, so here as parliamentary representatives, first that there is no ideologies, that there are no badges, whether, and then again, some hunts, over the back of people, through our citizens and entrepreneurs. So every growth and progress has to follow a man, because if he doesn't follow a man, then there's a man in trouble, and we're here to make sure that our man doesn't get in trouble. I'll be picturesque, I'm the first to protect nature and the environment, I'm even ready to be as active as my Miro, I'm sure, but I'm in the mood to act very active, so very much, but if the question between a man and a tree, so I'd betray myself, my habitat, if I chose a tree, so I have to choose a man, because it's mine to take care of a man, my mission, in the end as a parliamentary representative, someone chose me to speak here, my Rijekans, my Istrians, my residents, the inhabitants of the island of Krk, Cres, Lošinj, they came and circled Marin Miletic. And thank God, and I'm here now, so it's mine to say that these people need to be helped to live in quality, because what it's worth to be an eco zone of everything, so I'm here with four HDZs and two SDPs, I'm sorry, with all due respect and with HDZ and SDP, you've even eaten something nice to me, but what should I do, where to go, what I'm going to do, what I'm going to do, with my daughters, what, where. So our task is to ensure that the quality of life in the Republic of Croatia is at a satisfactory level, that people have a job, that people work, that people don't run away from our country because they're better somewhere else, and then after that, of course, they look out for the environment, it's linked to synergy again, that they don't work there and they don't die because they're poisoned by something, but that's why we're going to watch out for this project, to make quality studies of environmental protection, to protect human health, we'll be careful as much as we can get this project out of the way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66754	The next Club of Representatives will be that of the Centre and GLAS, and will be spoken by a respected representative of Anka Mrak-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66755	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, a respected secretary of state with an associate. We now have in these afternoons in the discussion of two laws in the first reading. This first law we are discussing is about the Fund for financing, decommissioning and disposal of radioactive waste, spent nuclear fuel from Krško nuclear power plants, and the second law we will have behind it is the Law on Radiological and Nuclear Security. I have to admit that I'm a little sorry that we don't have a united discussion because it gets intertwined in the professional section, because what we're actually talking about, let's say formally, and then we'll talk about content. Formally, through this Act we are harmonising this Law, which was since 2007, which has not been amended or supplemented, the Radiological and Nuclear Security Act which was basic from 2013, so it was completed in 2015, 2017, 2018 and we have a strategy for the management of radioactive waste which is from 2014 and we have a Programme for the period from 2025 with a view to 2060. Therefore, all of this is actually coordinated with one another in terms of nuclear security and in terms of the Fund that are defined, which are the tasks and roles of the Fund, with this Strategy which I mentioned, which was already defined in 2014 that the Fund for the decommissioning and disposal of radioactive waste should be brought into line with that Strategy. So, formally, we have these few things that we coordinate with each other. Now we're getting to that content and essence part. So what we thought wasn't worth it at one point is still showing that things are different. What am I talking about? I'm talking about nuclear energy. At one point there was a man in relation to nuclear energy, there was a ban on speaking, there was no reference at all, but I think we need to look at the eyes of reason and the eyes of responsibility. So Europe is relatively small from other continents or other countries of the world. In this relatively small space, we now have 126 nuclear reactors in 14 countries. So 14 countries that are members of the European Union have 126 nuclear reactors. It's in this moment of reality, that's what we have. The reality we have is next. I'm not sure that we of 151 Assembly MPs would find one among us who would be willing to live if we didn't, let's say, I remember very well those power cuts, that in the summer we don't have air conditioning, that in winter we don't have quality heating, that we can't fill our smart phones anywhere without which we can no longer live, because we do everything other than we don't cook, we cook and we have to be aware of it. I'd just as much like to pass when it comes to climate change and transporting which is an electric car, which is worn, these electric cars, I have those that go to solar cells, we have that too, but they basically need to come and load it somewhere. You need to get that electrical energy from something. So, I'm an absolute supporter of the next. Every time any country decides exclusively for something is in danger. I always think you should be a beauty. I think there should be renewable energy choices and everyone else, because simply when you get a disturbance that you can't influence at all, a country that's in trouble. So I think the time has come for us to define ourselves clearly through certain strategies and how we treat nuclear energy for which today's experts, who are to be heard and seen, speak in terms of climate change, that this is energy that is clean in relation to climate change. But that's where the next problem arises, the waste. What about that waste, which has been under way for years, we still don't know how it's being broken down. I've come to this debate, it's a topic that I have to admit quite interested in, I've been going to see how much it is so far, because what a man is always thinking about is these terrible accidents, the accidents on nuclear reactors and then having consequences, there's a lot of us who remember that accident from Chernobyl, which was there some days before May 1st and when it was said that this radioactive cloud was going from Chernobyl and, of course, it went to the territory of all Europe except Croatia and the Adriatic, because of course tourism was as important to us as it is today. So, the first accident recorded was in 57 in the UK, and the last major one, some larger scales, because each one has great proportions, and each one has consequences, was 11 March 2011. So these are these 99 accidents that have been recorded on nuclear reactors and each of them has a consequence. And that's what we need to take care of, but let's be realistic about that. Today it is clear to all of us that it was one, when it was an accident in Chernobyl, that it was actually one propaganda, but any, any serious hararium that would be on Krško, which would be in one, this should now be those who are dealing with meteorology, air currents, winds and everything else, which of these, to repeat once again, 126 nuclear reactors we have in the territory of the European Union, has a consequence of us. I'm sure every one of them has a consequence with us. So we need to start talking soundly about this nuclear energy and see what the benefits are and what they're not benefites. And I'll be back in the end, of course you're always pulled by that siren call when this kind of interesting subject is, you go to things that are a little wider than this law, but also, by this Law and by reason, the Resort Ministry has admitted a few things. It was acknowledged that we, therefore, must cooperate with a neighbouring country called Slovenia, have admitted that there is no cooperation with it in relation to the way in which radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel from Krško nuclear power plants are to be cared for, that this requires certain agreements, which do not, at one point, depend on a number of other factors of influence, sun, moon, and I do not know what is not and that through this amendment of the law we actually define that formal part, which is the body of the Fund, which is the extent of responsibility, which is the scope of the guarantees of the Republic of Croatia, which is business and what has caused and a series of replicas through the introduction of the Secretary of State, which is the establishment of the Centre for the Management of Radioactive Waste. Let's be reasonable here and see. Croatia, indeed, has always, we have learned this and today we are very happy to repeat and talk about its series of comparative and natural advantages, something that you have in terms of beauty, natural values and all the other advantages, where you can be flawed. So, when you take and switch all the cards you have in Croatia, where you switch the map, what's lately we're all very sensitive, earthquake zones, when you switch the map that's protected from the level of natural and cultural heritage, when you switch the map of very valuable forest surfaces, agricultural surfaces, when you switch the map of construction areas and then some other areas around these building areas, when you switch it all a little bit, when you have it there, I won't tell a kiflu, but a bird, when you see where your distances are from neighbouring countries, up Hungary, so that long border with Bosnia and Herzegovina, and then you can get a space where it's even possible to plan the Centre for Radioactive Waste Management. So, this should, we're all talking about certain locations that have been long gone for years, they've been still in the spatial plan of the former Socialist Republic of Croatia, so they're not joking, then they've been in the strategy of the spatial development of the Republic of Croatia, in the Programme of Spatial Development of the Republic of Croatia, we have today a state plan, but I'll actually use an individual debate for this planning system, but when you put all these layers together, switch each other, then you can get a space where you can even plan, and later build this Centre for the disposal of radioactive waste. The question is how much space at all, when you take all these criteria we can have, but it's one serious job and it's a serious job that needs serious access. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66756	Thank you. The next will be the Social Democrats' Club, according to a respected representative, Renata Sablak-Dračevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66757	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Secretary of State. However, listening to these discussions so far, I must first agree that somewhere I expected it to be a united debate, because both these and other topics are so much on each other that there is no reason to discuss each other separately. Okay, now we need to talk about the bill's proposal to amend and supplement the law on the Fund for the financing, decommissioning and disposal of radioactive waste, spent nuclear fuel from Krško nuclear power plants. Of course, we are finally harmonising this Law with the 2011 European Union Directive and this Law means, now the bill intends to regulate the following issues, and now it is taxing, which all issues will be settled, that is all in accordance with both the Strategy and the Directive and of course, there is the highest emphasis on setting up the Centre for the Management of Radioactive Waste, but also the Violent Provisions, that is, the fines and the debtors of these fines. Consequences to be passed by the Law, arising naturally from the extension of the Fund's competence to the tasks of coordination, preparation and construction and implementation of an important decommissioning programme, delays and appropriate legal structure was necessary. Of course, there are laws that will harmonize and change each other and therefore, I see that somewhere the proposer himself is asking himself, namely that other than all these issues that the Fund will handle, he will also be oriented according to the compensation of the local community. Now somehow everything seems to me that the problem of compensation to the local community is a big problem, because instead of first, when we are somewhere, and for 20 years the same locality has been well educated by locals, so they must participate in all processes, and in order for them to be able to participate in the processes, they must be educated. They need to know what's going on with them, because it seems to me that, all these years, they've been talking about both the storage and the dump. And the warehouse and the dump is very different. The dump is permanent, and that is the 300 years to be spent in that dump of nuclear waste, which is all we are talking about is the spent fuel of the nuclear power plant karstko. So certainly the local community and citizens are very important parameters and I would suggest somewhere to the proposer to consider conducting education, and then to hold a referendum, a referendum in the area where our new Waste Management Centre should be. I agree with you, there are huge differences whether or not we're going to take care of the waste ourselves or we're going to pay someone else to take care of our waste. So, I'm sure the compensation to the local community will also be important for forming such a decision. What else should I say about everything? So I was worried that you didn't give us at least some indicative amount of money that should be meant to be needed from the state budget will be provided by the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development, but it is said that the centre must be completed by 2023. But we don't even have any indicative idea how much this could cost a budget at an annual level. And that information we also need, it's all important to us. For example, funds have been collected from HEP for years. I guess those funds are being deposited and stored at the moment we need them to decommission the nuclear power plant. But it seems to me that it's not all well enoughcommunicated, and here's the way I'm asking you to explain it better. Don't forget the locals. It's very important that the community accept something. The community will accept it if they understand what it is and if, of course, it has the appropriate compensation materially. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66758	The next Club of Representatives will be the HDZ, according to a respected representative, Jura Brkan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66759	Honorable chairman, respected state secretary with colleagues, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. Here is a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Fund for the financing of the decommissioning and disposal of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel Elektrana Krško. I believe you're all aware that the Krško Nuclear Power Plant began commercially on January 1, 1983. The Krško nuclear power plant is a joint production facility that annually covers about 20% of Slovenia's needs and 16% of Croatia's electricity needs. Krško is organized as a limited liability company of NEK d.o.o. In accordance with the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the arrangement of status and other legal relations related to the investment and exploitation and decommissioning of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant and the social contract, which entered into force in 2003. The interstate contract and the social contract shall be governed by mutual relations, rights and obligations on the basis of equal ownership shares of both members of the GEN energy company d.o.o. and Croatian electricity industry d.d. Krško nuclear power plant delivers produced electricity to both members of the company in equal shares. The corporate governance model is two-level. The basic principle of decision-making is the consent of two members of society in all management bodies – the Board of Management, the Supervisory Board and the Assembly of the Society. In each production process, technological waste is produced in NEK by industrial and low and medium radioactive waste. NEK's responsibility is to secure timely storage of radioactive materials according to world standards. The temporary warehouse is a reinforced concrete building resistant to earthquakes. Permanent solutions to the final disposal of responsibilities in Slovenia and Croatia are responsible for the Slovenian Agency for Radioactive Waste ARAU and Croatian Fund for the financing of the decommissioning and disposal of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel. The amount of radioactive waste generated depends on the stability of power plants and the extent of maintenance operations. Annuals in Krško Nuclear Power Plant are formed about 30 metres of cubic low and medium radioactive waste. Low and medium radioactive wastes are waste materials and used equipment in a radiologically controlled area, which cannot be decontaminated after use or have become radioactive. For example, protection departments used, processed liquid waste, resin filters, etc. In accordance with international standards, all radioactive waste that has been created since the start of Krško Nuclear Power Plant since 1981 has been stored in a temporary warehouse at the power plant. The total volume of radioactive waste is 2 thousand 405 meters cubic, in nature 20 times 20 meters with 6 meters of height. Volume decreases by sorting, concentrating, melting and burning. Burning and melting services are hired abroad. Burning up to 20 times reduces the volume of waste. Fuel elements which have reached the technical and economic limit of use are called spent nuclear fuel. In accordance with the adopted strategy, spent nuclear fuel is stored in the plant area in a separate building in the spent fuel pool. The swimming pool has a length of 16 meters, a width of 8 and a depth of 12 meters, and it provides bars for a thousand 694 worn out fuel elements. A thick layer of 8 metres of water added to the child’s acid as well as a shield from radiation and a water drain. The amount of residual heat from the radiation decreases over time, allowing the transfer to dry storage of spent fuel after 5 years of storage in the pool. The Krško nuclear power plant will continue to temporarily store spent fuel from the reactor core immediately after fuel replacement for at least 5 years in an existing fuel tank. Moving fuel from the pool to the dry warehouse will take place in several campaigns. The dry storage building is built in the technological part of Krško Nuclear Power Plant. The regulations specify the entire life cycle of the power plant from design, construction, construction of the plant to decommissioning. Decommissioning is the procedures, jobs and actions needed to translate the nuclear power plant to a state when it ceases to be a nuclear facility and the disposal of spent fuel and radioactive waste after the NEK's completed drive. The program of decommissioning the Krško nuclear power plant was first built in 1996. On the basis of monitoring international decommissioning projects and comparisons of experiences, it is occasionally upgraded. In 2020, an inter-state commission accompanying the implementation of the provisions of the inter-state contract confirmed the third revision of the programme on the principle that the costs covered by the generation benefiting from the production of nuclear power plants. Members of GN Energy and HEP Elektroprivreda must pay a certain amount of each megawatt produced in a nuclear power plant in decommissioning funds and the disposal of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel. The Fund was established to fulfil the obligations of the Republic of Croatia under the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The Fund Act entered into force on 27 October 2007. The Government of the Republic of Croatia appointed the Management Board and the Interim Director on 7 February 2008, and the Fund began its work in September 2008. The Act amending and supplementing the Act on Radiological and Nuclear Security makes it mandatory to establish a Centre for the Management of Radioactive Waste as a Founding Unit. The Centre will store exclusively low and medium radioactive waste in a tight state, and all of the institutional radioactive waste that Croatia itself produces will also be stored. in the case of storage of waste, it shall not be in liquid or in the gas stages. The national programme as a preferred location for the establishment of the Radioactive Waste Management Centre lists the location of the Cerkezovac military storage complex located in the Municipality of Dvor on the southern slopes of the Shop Gora mass. On 31 March 2020, the Fund for financing the decommissioning of Krško nuclear power plant took over from the Ministry of Environmental and Energy Protection to use the location of the former Cerkezovac military storage complex. In accordance with the obligations of the Interstate Treaty and the National Programme, the start of the storage plant is planned for 2023. The Centre for the Management of Radioactive Waste shall be designed in accordance with the requirements for the design of facilities for the storage of radioactive waste identified and internationally verified, and subsequently united in the guidelines of the International Atomic Energy Agency. A system of multiple barriers is used to isolate radioactive waste in human and environmental storage, each of which has a specific role to play. For the purpose of long-term storage of radioactive waste from Krško nuclear power plant at the centre location, one warehouse, i.e. building a new building. It will be a simple and one-space reinforced concrete building with steering and auxiliary spaces. It's built according to state-of-the-art standards. All radioactive waste from the Krško nuclear power plant that will be stored in the Centre will first be transported to some of the centres for processing radioactive waste in Europe, where it will be processed and conditioned into reinforced concrete tanks, RCC dimensions of 2 metres with 2 metres and 2 metres. Such a final package of waste shall contain neither liquid nor gas waste, and no waste shall exist from any release into the environment. The implementation of the project is under way, consisting of the following activities. Field research on the location of the centre, defining the zero state of radioactivity, safety study and reports, project documentation and, as we heard this morning, public procurement for the performer of performance studies and environmental impact studies. A number of new or amended legal or sublegal and implementing rules have been adopted to date, directly affecting the activities, powers and obligations of the Fund. Including the establishment of a Centre for the Management of Radioactive Waste. It is therefore necessary to comply with the provisions of the current Fund Act, with these new regulations. The adoption of this Act, amending and supplementing the Fund Act, will bring the provisions of the Fund Act into line with the provisions of the Radiological and Nuclear Security Act, whose amendments are in parallel, and the obligations to adopt arrangements establishing financial obligations relating to the management of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel will be taken over from that Act. The law will also comply with the Strategy and the National Programme as well as with other applicable regulations. Finally, the disposal of radioactive waste from used sources and spent nuclear fuel is of strategic interest to the Republic of Croatia, which is confirmed by the adoption of the Strategy and the National Implementation Programme of the Strategy. Following that above, the HDZ Representatives Club will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66760	The next Club of Representatives will be the SDP, and a respected representative, Mirela Ahmetovic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66761	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, respected colleagues and colleagues from the Ministry, respected colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament. As in the discussions on all other laws and in this debate I will speak exclusively from the point of view of usefulness or damage to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, in this case, by citizens, or residents of the Municipality of Dvor. To begin with, I remind the public that the planned construction of the Centre for the Management of Radioactive Waste in Cerkezovac is under way, and the implementation of the open public procurement procedure is currently under way to assess the impact of the procedure on the environment, i.e. the study on the impact of the procedure on the environment, the implementation of the procedure for assessing the impact of the procedures on the environment and the cross-border assessment process. And rightly, during the public consultation, a question was raised, of course not even answered in detail, but only referred to the legal regulations of the Republic of Croatia, and the question was whether local administration units would conduct a public debate with the population in due time, about the possibility of nuclear waste being stored in their area, or whether it was a free decision by the newly established Fund. And I'm not saying it out of the second hand, or out of the third hand, or in theory, nor are we talking about the compliance of this Law with the national strategy of waste management, nor am I talking about compliance with European directives, but compliance with will and desire, and especially usefulness for the inhabitants of the Municipality of Dvor. Is there anything to ask them when making such important decisions? Well, to answer that to the Croatian public, no wonder. And you know what the saddest thing is? The saddest thing is that in my replica, I ask the Secretary of State whether this location was the subject of spatial planning documentation of the local or regional or the same municipality, so the Secretary of State answered me very vaguely that it was so not anymore, but it is working to be arranged. And how it works, we all know how it's done. So it is agreed with the county because the local population opposes it, but at the county level they have the support and the county will install it in its own space plan by force and will then be based on the Law on the Strategic Interests of the Republic of Croatia, and this is where we must agree on the strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia because we will have to take care of this waste, this project will be implemented without the citizens asking questions. And you know what's even sadder than that? It's even sadder to plan to spend 3 million kunas in so-called. PR activities to be communicated to the public about the project. Whose 3 million kunas we know well and those inhabitants who impose all of us citizens of the Republic of Croatia in Croatia. And it's just enough to be dignified, to recognize the dignity of those inhabitants and those local authorities, to sit down with people and ask them what you think about it, whether you agree or not? I remind the Secretary of State and all of you here present that the Annex is point 3. This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. The environmental law prescribed that the request of the holder of the procedure must contain a certificate of compliance with the spatial-planning documentation. Let us also answer the question to the gentleman who asked his question at public consultation. The public debate will be conducted in good time as a standard procedure during a study of environmental impact. But judging by the experience, and I am speaking firsthand about this, that is, the public-wide debate will actually be provided with information during that formal procedure. This process will be carried out without respecting this pre-mentioned Regulation, which I mentioned and without of course respecting the Environmental Protection Act. Thus, the only committee that will be evaluated by the study will be appointed from the ranks of state or state institutions. The majority will be provided in advance and, of course, that the study will be adopted no matter what the actual results, not the ones they write in the study, but the actual results on that location are that they will, of course, be adopted again. This will meet all the conditions for the establishment of the centre, regardless of whether its construction and operation are correct or incorrect. They will issue the Ministry of Economy, Sustainable Development, if we are to mention, of course, the solution to the acceptability of environmental procedures and will also be issued by the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning if we talk about the location and construction permit of all documents and all documents on which it will be pink, which will be signed by all those who have to sign, etc. So, all that matters about the project and what is wrong will simply be covered by a statement by a brave assistant, an assistant minister with no integrity in which it will therefore stand out that everything is perfectly correct and the centre will of course be built. And let's not talk about this right now that it's a preferred location. This is the location that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has simply chosen and will, as such, be realised beyond communication with local authorities, apart from communication with citizens, past communication and wishes with the local community, whatever it says in the European Charter of Local Self-Government, whatever it says in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, whatever it says in any European directive. What I want to do here is warn the local authorities and residents of the municipality of Dvor that it is extremely important to get in touch with experts in the field of energy, spatial planning, construction, rights, environmental protection and objectively, objectively get acquainted with all aspects of this project. I hope and want to believe that this project will be approached objectively, professionally, seriously, primarily by respecting the opinion of the local community. However, I believe that no one normal actually respects all these charters, the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, etc. I don't need to make suggestions. But there was a need to mention it, given the experience that such important projects are simply being implemented. In the context of the fact that the municipality of Dvor has already highlighted the lack of communication between the state authorities with the local community and the fact that only taking over the location of Cerkezovac is in the hands of the fund in exceptional circumstances, so during the pandemic and the devastating earthquake right in Banija, and that citizens of the Municipality of Dvor at choirs and at the meetings of the Municipal Council have already made their opposition to this project clear I will therefore very precisely remind you of Article 129a of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia where it is prescribed that units of local self-government are doing the work from the section planning of their space, i.e. urban planning and spatial planning. For this communication I mentioned earlier, therefore, do not waste the resources of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Just let the minister take a little time, and let the fund manager take a little time, and you State Secretary, too, take some time, take these citizens, don't be afraid, meet them, talk to them, no matter how embarrassing it is. It was embarrassing for both the representatives and your ministry to talk to the Omisalj municipality, so you all survived. You're all in the same places. You've succeeded in your purpose. We're fighting all the negativity. People from the Dvor municipality will also fight. But at least you'll show them respect and their actual dignity. What's the only chance for the dear residents of the Dvor municipality is to keep an eye on what's going on around the center and to regularly report everything they see, therefore, and in this process of issuing documents to competent inspectors, competent institutions, all possible and impossible, and at least that those with their consciences, with their souls, will be calm when someone asks them in the future and where you were when they imposed it on you, what did you say then and did you say that you didn't want it for future generations there? Of course you are looking for media help, because objective media are in these cases your best friend, and therefore from this place I thank from the heart all the objective media that at any time help local communities, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to hear their voice, because it is not heard or heard differently. As far as the law itself is concerned here, changes are proposed which are cosmetic. What is genius is that the proposer of Articles 5 and 6 of this proposal for amending the law has brilliantly designed how to reach his sloppyness, so he added that within 6 months of the end of the term of office, the existing Director or President of the Governing Council of this Fund may be retained, so we will have more bags under the indictments of the USKOK to carry out its work uninterrupted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66762	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives will be the Homeland Movement, and will be spoken by the respected representative Ruzica Vukovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66763	Dear Secretary of State with his associates, the Honorable Vice-President of the Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs. So discussions on the Fund for financing the disposal and decommissioning of radioactive waste as well as on the Law on Radiological and Nuclear Security arrived at a very interesting political and social point. Let's look at things in a slightly wider context. France has been a country that has almost 80% of the electricity required for 40 years from nuclear power plants, and French companies have the reputation for the most efficient and professional in the construction of nuclear plants. At the same time, France takes over the EU presidency in January next year. When we combine these two data and re-awaken the recent awakening of support for nuclear energy across Europe, we realize that something is seriously preparing. Let's take it in a row. Croatia is among the 10 Member States of the European Union that have signed a requirement for equating energy from nuclear power plants with renewable energy sources, which opens up the possibility of co-finance and building nuclear power plants with European funds. The document was signed on 11 October, so on the same day that a large group of French businessmen were in Zagreb, together with representatives of the French employers' association MEDEF, and on the eve of the announced visit by French President Emmanuel Macron to Croatia. The French forerunner in Europe in nuclear power plants technology, and their strong interest in investing in the energy sector in Croatia was one of the topics of meetings with Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic and a group of his ministers. Obviously, I can point out, obviously Croatia once again finds great ideas and good solutions only when someone else offers them to us on the plate. And our citizens can only wonder what the price of such investments will be and for how many decades and at what cost we will sell another piece of our national sovereignty. I will provide some information from the Tomislav Kelcec Pester's graduate work on the subject: "The potential of nuclear energy". Global warming and an increase in temperature amplitudes require a global response to climate change, and the main objective is to control and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. There are many proposed solutions that will lead or already lead to the goal set. These are increasing resource productivity, sustainable resource management, resource efficient economy and society in general, sustainable waste management, reduction, environmental degradation and resource consumption, green industry, transition from linear to circular economy as well as other solutions. It is precisely from the context of other solutions, and while respecting all the above-mentioned power generation from nuclear resources, it is being imposed as one of the most realistic solutions in the future. The International Atomic Energy Agency, the International Energy Agency, and the European Commission have developed several scenarios of future nuclear development by 2030 and up to 2050, which are considering moderate, enhanced and accelerated development. According to the International Atomic Energy Agency and its moderate scenario by 2020, the growth of nuclear capacity would be 1.1% annually with the achieved production of 3 000 and 100 terawatt hours, and increased growth from 2.6% annually to 2030 would result in a practical double of the current production, so 5 thousand 40 terawatts of hours. The most ambitious is the fast-track scenario envisaged by the European Commission by the veto, which includes nuclear technology and fuel cycles of the most recent 4th generation, with as much as 21 thousand terrawatts of hours planned annually, where projections are to make nuclear energy a dominant producer of electricity and hydrogen by 2050. Veto-enhancing scenarios and demands a significant increase in the exploitation of uranium sources, which is already lagging behind the needs of the reactor in operation today and considering the exploitation of uranium from poorer but large sources of phosphate and finally oceans. It is estimated that the oceans contain 4.5 billion tonnes of uranium, and in the long run the only solution to the nuclear option and thus sustainable development is the use of fertilising reactors already in serious consideration in China and India. In fact, China and India have a great need for energy and a great plan to build nuclear installations with a large share of fertilising reactors. China plans that by 2050 20% of its nuclear capacity will be fertilising reactors. Since the main objective is to control and reduce greenhouse gas emissions, all world and domestic studies in the first place highlight CO2 emissions as a key issue in terms of energy transition. We can stop there a little bit and justifiably wonder if the big and ambitious plans for a complete transition to renewable energy sources are just the bright idea that green lobbies are waving at us under our noses? And I wonder what domestic experts have to say about it that even in the construction of wind parks, millions of Croatian kunas can easily steal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66764	We still have the Club of Representatives of HSLS and Reformers, and on behalf of the club, a respected representative, Darko Klasic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66765	Thank you, well-respected vice president, esteemed secretary of state with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. Now, before I go, there's been a lot of misinformation here today. I can see that, I'm sorry that the secretary of state didn't give you a plastic explanation of exactly what this is about and what will be stored in Cherkevac tomorrow. I'll try to explain it to you in this debate. Let's be objective and not work over a fly elephant and be a bigger pope than the Pope. Let's look at the interest of a small man on the world map of pollution or globally, Croatia is actually in an immeasurable part of the rock. This Law harmonizes Croatian legislation with the acquis of the European Union establishing a Union framework for ensuring responsible and safe management of radioactive waste, spent fuels to avoid imposing unnecessary burden on future generations. The national programme provides for the establishment of a central warehouse of institutional radioactive waste, used sources at the location of the former Cerkezovac military storage complex as a location for the disposal of radioactive waste. In doing so, it is primarily radioactive waste, not nuclear waste, which is important to mention. As there's been a lot of noise lately, and I've heard it now, so I decided to get involved in this debate even though I didn't sign up, now I'm at the end about building this complex on Cherkezovac, where disinformation is often dominated in the media space. For the sake of better information, both our representatives and our citizens, I think it is necessary to clarify that there is no planned storage of general high radioactive waste in Croatia, not even now or in the future. In Croatia, high radioactive waste is not produced, and only low and medium-active waste storage is planned. Let me get this straight. It is about bags of contaminated suits and gloves of protective equipment, used in the operation of radioactive sources, used sources created by the use of radioactive materials or sources of ionising radiation in medicine, industry, science and military. At present, such waste for the last 30 years has been stored in the rehabilitated indoor warehouses within the Institute of Medical Research and the Ruđer Bošković Institute and would not believe it in the center of Zagreb a mile of distance here from us. All low radioactive and medium-active waste is located a kilometer here from this tall home. That is why I find unserious protests by certain associations or community of local administrations, which is obviously due to the lack of information or cheap populist political actions used by the fear and non-information of citizens living near that new warehouse of institutional radioactive waste. What would the citizens of the City of Zagreb say, here we have suffered the same amount of waste, the waste was all over the IMI and Ruđer for the entire time in this earthquake crisis? Well, I guess you shouldn't waste this kind of low-intensity, the time of decay is mostly about 30 years. Here we are specifically down at Radiology where I've been working for over 30 years we have stored X-ray tubes that also belong to low radioactive waste. Because the highly radioactive waste I will remind you of in Croatia is gone. The amount of institutional radioactive waste produced in Croatia is relatively small and should be noted that the institutional radioactive waste used sources of ionising radiation will continue to occur and the national programme foresees that a maximum of 100 metres of this waste will occur in the period until 2060. So it's a negligible amount. As for nuclear waste from Krško Nuclear Power Plant, which is the most concerned by our public, there is no reason to worry. We Croats like to think greenly and pay other richer countries to make money on our waste, although according to our incomes we belong to the bottom of the European scale, so just as the Hungarians earn on our purification oil in Zagreb will make Italians earn on burning our waste down from Rijeka and Pula, as well as Slovenia at taking care of our share of waste from Krško Nuclear Power Plant, because it will remain permanently stored minimum now by 2043. The Interstate Commission of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and Slovenia signed an agreement on the construction of a dry storage facility for spent nuclear fuel at the location of Krško Nuclear Power Plant. It is assumed to be active at least 60 years after the end of the work of Krško Nuclear Power Plant. The cost of construction of the plant, maintenance of the facility by 2043 will be financed by co-owners of Krško Nuclear Power Plant. Croatian electricity and GEN energy. The spent nuclear fuel from Krško Nuclear Power Plant will continue to be stored at the power plant's location. Therefore, our Centre for the Management of Radioactive and Nuclear Waste will not provide spent nuclear fuel from Krško Nuclear Power Plant. As Liberals, we will always represent a rational approach to policies against collective panics of any kind, including those concerning environmental issues, and in particular disinformation. We therefore welcome the adoption of this Act, which prescribes the exclusive responsibility of the Republic of Croatia for the disposal of radioactive waste, spent fuel, used sources created in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Although we also believe that the Republic of Croatia should start to think and act on taking care of all the waste that we produce. We're too poor a country to pay rich countries to make money on our waste. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66766	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate, so the first one will be an esteemed representative of Anka Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66767	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed State Secretary with his associates. I'm going to pick up where I left off in the debate on behalf of the club, and that's what naturally causes the most interest among the parliamentary deputies otherwise. It's this theme of setting up a radioactive waste management center. Let's get some facts. The facts are as follows. The Republic of Croatia has its share in Krško Nuclear Power Plant. The Krško nuclear power plant produces waste through its work. You can't ignore that waste if it's not there. There is also something you must do with this waste, or you must take care of it somewhere. Similarly, in a number of other things we do, a certain kind of waste is created that I also say radioactive waste, so you have to do something with it, and that's the decision the state needs to make. You have two options. You have options where you have a center in your country. You have another option that, with a certain way of funding de facto, you export that waste somewhere and take care of it and take care of it by someone else. So these are the first two options we have to decide on. If we decide to have a radioactive waste disposal center, and it seems to me that when you look at all these strategic documents that I referred to that we have decided to do, then we need to approach and see what we have in the current space-planned documentation. Of course such a single center sensitizes the public. Of course, that public has been sensitized especially before some elections. We've had elections recently every year, so every year before the election, they've made some sense of the public. I have to say that the public will sensitize if you decide and do some kind of road or some kind of port, or some kind of factory, especially if it's about the unknown, especially if it's that you don't know you have a questionnaire above your head, and you have a picture of Chernobyl. So, in Europe, we always have these pictures of Chernobyl and the consequences that you always think of the worst. With us, the spatial planning system is set up in a way that I'm not going to talk about the topic of environmental impact assessment, but I'm going to talk about the spatial planning system. It's set in the form of a pyramid. So far, the Strategy and the Programme for Spatial Development of the Republic of Croatia were at the top. Underneath that county plan, then the municipal plan and detailed documents of spatial arrangement. The Republic of Croatia introduced a state spatial plan in its legislation there in 2013. For what reason? So the state spatial plan is your basic document and you have other countries, and that's how you coordinate in the spatial planning system, you have the same documents as other countries, but for the reason that the state's spatial plan shows its views. The state shows its ideas of what and how it thinks and thinks about it you must carry out an evaluation and impact on the environment, but you must also conduct a public debate with it. The state spatial plan has yet to come up with a public debate. In the state spatial plan, we need to define the location of the radioactive waste disposal centre. This state spatial plan should also be conducted in the field of the local self-government unit where this is happening. All interested parties shall have the right to participate, make observations and others. So the state has to make it clear what it's been defined for. The state must not transfer its commitment and its responsibility and say some county plans, let them plan municipalities and cities for the simple reason why this hierarchy must be respected and there is a state spatial plan. In the state space plan, you don't have to install and it doesn't have to be everything. But there must be basic infrastructure, there must be economic zones that are important for the Republic of Croatia. So the Republic of Croatia has the right to land that is owned by the Republic of Croatia to say I am planning an economic zone, rather than depending eventually on the county, municipalities and cities because it always turns into a first-class political issue. Not an expert question, and equally in this state spatial plan, this kind of thing must be because it clearly says from that state that we will not decide to take care of this waste in a way that we export as absolutely possible, but we will take care of it here and in that way. And the state needs to take responsibility for that. The state is very often, and the state is also a county, and the municipalities and cities that we understand each other, but very often it does not want to make its views clear, but it leaves it somewhere else. So without a state spatial plan, there won't be a center, and the year 2023, I'm afraid it's not real.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66768	Thank you. We have one replica of the respected representative Ahmetovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66769	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, you've made an excellent point in mentioning the state's spatial plan. According to your experience and knowledge within almost 2 and a half or 3 years, was it possible at least to establish the guidelines of this spatial plan or basic facilities, even if they were to be built in a particular area of the Republic of Croatia? Since the pipelines, the pipelines, LNGs, and now here are the dumps of radioactive waste and so large and significant very influential infrastructure facilities and build in a way that no one is asked questions. The locals have no idea about this. There's no such thing as a space plan. So wouldn't it be normal for the state to at least have a back-up policy in two-and-a-half years where such objects will be placed in space in our country? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66770	Honorable representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66771	Thank you very much, colleague Ahmetovic. Therefore, the law which was then provided for the State's spatial plan to be in place within 5 years. All the changes that were made to the Law on Spatial Planning were heading towards prolonging the deadline. This prolonging of the deadline for the simple reason I just appreciate it in a way that the state does not want to clearly show what its idea of economic development is and in which direction, therefore, it does not want to show this location either. He doesn't want to show clearly on the paper what it's about. It's not easy to come to a public hearing, you know. I am that now, I was relatively young and I led a public debate with a spatial plan that was very sensitive and the first man who answered said and which asshole predicted it, exactly what asshole predicted it in that spatial plan. I raised my hand and I said, "That's me." I must admit that behind that, when you make it so clear, there goes the debate in the normal direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66772	Thank you very much. The next one will be spoken by a respected representative, Marijana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66773	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State with co-workers, MPs and MPs. The Krško nuclear power plant is the largest investment of the Republic of Croatia beyond our borders. The very information to produce 6 billion kilowatts of electricity annually is certainly impressive, which means that every 5th light bulb in Croatia is powered by Krško Nuclear Power Plant. Of course, that information speaks for itself enough that it is an important source of electricity. On the other hand, it is clear to all of us that certain obligations that are not minor arise from this project, that there is great responsibility for the disposal and highly radioactive waste and low and medium radioactive waste. To this end, HEP is required to invest in the account of the Fund for the financing of the decommissioning of the Krško nuclear power plant amounting to 14.25m euros per year, of course, in Kunska anti-value, and those decommissionings since 2004. Despite the devastating earthquake that hit Banovina in Sisak-Moslavina County according to this Bill proposal, which today is ahead of us, the state institutions continue with a plan to build a Radioactive Waste Management Centre, which, according to all available information, should be in the former Cerkezovac military warehouse in the Municipality of Dvor in the Shop Gora near the border with Bosnia and Herzegovina. I believe that Croatia should not build a nuclear waste disposal site, which I have already warned several times, and I have made clear arguments about it. I believe that the dialogue with Slovenia should seek solutions for the disposal of low and medium radioactive waste resulting from the termination of the work of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant as much as possible by the European Union Directive. does not oblige Member States to provide radioactive waste for which they are responsible exclusively in their territory, but rather leaves that possibility of agreeing and reaching adequate solutions with other countries, especially when it comes to joint investment, as is the case with Krško Nuclear Power Plant. If such an agreement were to be reached, I believe that a deal could also be reached to take care of both the low and medium radioactive waste that occurred in Croatia during various medical research, treatment or other activities and which is now located at Ruđer Boskovic Institute. That is why I believe that further efforts should be made, establishing dialogue with Slovenia on the joint management of radioactive waste within the dump that Slovenia has made on its territory, it already exists. And it seems to me that this should be the first step, not the establishment of a radioactive waste management centre. I also believe that the public is rightly upset that the real information is missing and that the whole selection process is being followed since 1999, so all of this has been happening at the time of some of the former governments in a non-transparent way without involving the local population and without field research. So someone sat her down in the office and pissed her places on the map and then they went through the process of making constructive arguments and hearing arguments, which by the political influence of the location turned out to be this location that it is. So, I repeat, nowhere in Croatia should be a nuclear waste dump. Further concern has been raised by this news that many have commented today in the media that Croatia is joining EU member states that are in some way involved in the initiative to turn the European Union more strongly to nuclear energy and it is said that this is in fact an effective way to combat climate change and decarbonisation of the economy. If I remember Croatia's Energy Development Strategy well by 2030, with a view to 2050, we put our cards on renewable energy sources. We did not put on nuclear energy, and in this sense we predicted a larger share of renewable energy production, greater energy efficiency, a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions. I don't know what actually happened that we suddenly turned overnight to nuclear energy, which also carries benefits but also carries safety risks and nuclear waste management. And for this reason I am seriously expressing a reserve according to such definition as the construction of the Centre for the Management of Radioactive Waste in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66774	Thank you. We've got more replicas. The first is the respected representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66775	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, I must admit, I have no intention of provoking you at all, but I do have to admit that I was surprised by your replica and, in fact, by this attitude of yours. I'm not saying I don't agree with a big, good part of you. So it's interesting to point out that we really shouldn't have a concrete waste management centre at all, that we should turn to Slovenia. I read a lot about it in preparation for this debate, and among other things it was said that some of the financial disadvantages of the Republic of Croatia were to point all cards towards Slovenia. Do you really think after all this, that we really need after so much money we've spent on the Cherkezovci project itself to give up on it, or what really is your advice given that you are still part of the ruling majority? I say the problems are huge for the local population too. We've heard a lot about spatial plans and studies, environmental... etc. Here's your final attitude.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66776	Dear representative Petyr, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66777	Thank you, colleague Maric. Well, I made my point. My view is that we must seek a solution in dialogue with Slovenia, and I do not think at all that we have a bad negotiating position if it is true that Slovenia has built and said waste management, and it is true, then they are interested in standing empty, which means that we are in a better negotiating position so that we can negotiate prices. Let me tell you something more about prices I can't do this because I don't have that data and I've looked for them on many occasions, as I said, along with the local population, I share that fate with Sisak-Moslavina County and this isn't the story in my backyard, but this is the story of transparency that doesn't exist from the very beginning. Special waste agencies and teams sat down in the office in 1999 and pissed something on the map without respecting any research. There were locations out there that couldn't possibly take into account what we proved because we brought in geological studies. Well, there is no in Croatia, especially in central Croatia granite, which is Swedish granite for someone there to build dumps as planned So it's a complete darkness. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66778	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66779	Representatives agree with you, the subject is extremely complex. But if we don't build that waste dump, if we're going to use foreign capacities, I think we're closing down a space for further use of nuclear energy to produce electricity. Why? If we now spend an additional 120 and some extra million as Mr. Secretary said more than we would invest for our warehouse, the first thing that will collect our electricity is the first thing. Another thing, if we're going to go with someone else to some company, some kind of society to expand our capacities either in Krško or to use some other power from nuclear energy, we're going to have to re-use other people's capacities and re-accumulate our electricity. What are we going to do with our business? We'll have more expensive and more expensive energy, and how will our economy work?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66780	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66781	Thank you very much, colleague Pavic. Well, I don't think you're to me as soon as we close the door. I think this is the kind of thing that we need to make thoughtful and strategic decisions that need to be informed about in cooperation with the local community, the local population and completely transparent. I've said this has been happening for over 20 years. So it didn't happen yesterday. The process just keeps going. If I understood the secretary of state well and the answer I received from the minister on the parliamentary issue because I had already opened this topic immediately after the earthquake occurred, so if I understood correctly the agreement on the disposal of high-radioactive waste in Slovenia has already been reached and Slovenia has also offered an option for the disposal of low and medium radioactive waste resulting from the decommissioning of Krško nuclear waste. So what are we talking about here? We are talking about 50 metres of cubic waste stored today at the Ruđer Boskovic Institute. I say, that's my attitude, you have the right to a second opinion, of course. that, that no dump should be built for 50 metres cubic. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66782	Dear Representative Rajko Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66783	Good afternoon, dear colleagues, so that's a great view, since you've been the euro to the Parliament. Well quite frankly, so quite frankly, you will obviously be against this law. What's this about? Is it perhaps European interest since.../incomprehensible/... Ukraine solved, Lithuania, Estonia etc., by the Croatian government since the new German government says we are going to industrialize the largest in 100 years and based on digitisation and wind power plants including.../incomprehensible/... wind power plants and this is phase 3 let's now that we've solved the East, we're good with the Germans, let's do some nuclear, nuclear waste with the French. So it's a very simple question. Then I'll back you in 90 and some percent in your good, good debate because definitely in the '20-30 strategy. And in the '20-50 strategy. We're facing green energy. So, is that France, Germany is a little.../incomprehensible/... so we're going to the European Commission, and we're going to move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66784	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66785	Thank you, colleague. I'll stay on the line. Well, I don't see it that way. So, Germany announced in 2020 the closure of its nukes, it seems to me that they are now in some phase of reviewing that decision, we will see what a new government will look like and in which direction they will go, but I'm not sure they will return to some initial positions, I think they will continue in that direction. Belgium has decided to close its two nukes because of some serious problems, and these are trends. The fact is that at European level models are being reviewed and that there is no longer such strong resistance to nuclear energy as it was, for example, even five years ago. And even five years ago, I remember these discussions. But I think this thing happens by momentum because it lasts. So it lasts in '99, I can't count how many times I've asked to make, to reach conclusions at various levels, to review the program of spatial planning of the Republic of Croatia and strategy. to actually see which way to go. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66786	Dear Representative Deur.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66787	Dear Vice President, I'm sure I'm looking forward to seeing this display of yours as very well. It is certainly very important that part of Croatia and Slovenia, especially when it comes to Krško, is that it is very important that dialogue with local communities which may not have been the best in the past on this subject. We're inclined to talk about the location, only where, which is where that location would be. It's a complex topic, very serious, and I think it's very important that Krško as a single subject who already exists that one quality dialogue should be opened and see in which direction it's all going not to trap ourselves even bigger. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66788	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66789	Thank you, colleague Deur, I agree with you. I think dialogue is necessary because we remember times when we didn't have a dialogue with our neighbours, and we had a joint investment. And when we didn't receive electricity from Krško's nuclear power, we were entitled to it. And when Croatia returned to those contractual obligations and gave up some of its rights and took over. And that's what I remember. And then I only voted against it not because I'm against dialogue, so I'm talking about dialogue all the time, but I think it was crazy to go back to the agreement in 2003, give up all requests to Slovenia and say that we're going to take that nuclear waste. So that's when I criticized it. So, I'm not one-sided and I'm not someone who doesn't understand the situation, but when you talk about dialogue, we have to have dialogue with other neighbours, and that's BiH because we're talking about something that's borderline area is.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66790	The Honorable Representative of the District.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66791	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Representative Petir, as a former representative in the European Parliament, can you tell us how much you have been from 2014 to 2019, so this is a really close time, how much the idea has changed and how some EU members think about this short period of time this is related to the nuclear power plant because, as we have seen, Croatia is, together with 9 other EU countries, the signatories of that letter on stronger turning the EU towards a nuclear power plant. Well, I'm just curious, we're witnessing how fast it's changing, how we live today in a time of rapid transition, insecure sources, supply sources, so it's very important to diversify those power sources.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66792	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66793	Thank you, Representative Okrosh. Well, she changed that, the perception of a situation where a very large number of countries went into one revision and spoke very enthusiastically about the closure of nuclear power plants until we now see that this is being revised because these 9 countries are not a small number of EU countries that have a completely different view. What I would personally like us to follow our strategic documents and use the potential that we have, which so far has not yet been said in the right way and in the full use of, here first of all I think of renewable energy sources. So we need to remove obstacles that still exist in such investments, we still don't have a map of renewable energy sources to know where, where it would be best to be solar power plants, where wind power plants, where hydropower plants, so I think we should go in such a one-way direction to set up a strategy and use our own potentials then maybe we shouldn't have this kind of debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66794	Thank you very much. The next replica of the esteemed representative of Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66795	Thank you very much. Nuclear waste of Sisak-Moslavina County after the earthquake, I don't know what to tell you, I know it's hard for you and the citizens of Sisak-Moslavina County and I wouldn't want anyone to want nuclear waste to enter his yard. So I won't comment on it, obligations, negotiations with Slovenia, our stakes within 50% of the nuclear, this nuclear Krško. I would only briefly say that otherwise management of waste industrial food is now in this case nuclear or any Republic of Croatia is at a devastating level. I mentioned the Long War a moment ago, the industrial cost, so it's also in Castles where the iron is, it's also in the Zadar area, so we have a huge problem with the management of hazardous waste, not only nuclear but industrial waste. That's... A problem that will affect human health, and in the long run, we will have huge damages and financial corrections from the EU. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66796	Dear Representative Petyr, here you go. We got it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66797	Thank you, buddy Bull, for the replica. I agree that the problem of the management and disposal of hazardous waste is a huge problem, black spots in Croatia have been detected, and as far as I know it was a plan that was later revised to finance part of these black points through the Environmental Protection Fund, so that care is also provided through European funds. But as I said after that revision, for example, the national plan turned out to be a phosphogyps dump in Kutina, which is also very problematic, is at the entrance to the PP Lonjsko Polje and I have addressed this topic and I hope that we will manage it in a good way, as well as all these other problematic black points of hazardous waste in Croatia because it is important for the health of people, because of the cleanliness of the environment and for all other reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66798	Honorable representative Sablar-Dračevac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66799	Thank you, Vice President. Dear MPs, therefore, are definitely the best renewable energy sources, better than we can have, but I'm afraid that the amount of electricity consumption in the Republic of Croatia is as much as elsewhere in the Western world, and now it's a question of how we can get a certain amount of energy that we need, and whether better to regulate laws for, so there are still a lot of places where individuals or citizens are stopped when they want to install, I don't know, from solar cells, well this smaller wind power plant home, so the question is whether, should we turn to imports, should we turn to nuclear energy which is obviously extremely large or forsyrate exclusively, just this... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66800	Thank you. Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66801	Thank you very much, fellow MP. Well, we certainly don't need to turn to imports, but imports are equally nuclear energy. I mean, that's quite clear because we are, therefore, importing that energy, we are co-owner of the Krško nuclear power plant, but it is quite certain that it is an energy facility that is beyond our borders and as far as I understand from these new agreements that have been concluded, no one planned to build the Krško nuclear power plant in the area of the Republic of Croatia. The fact is that without some of the energy facilities that we invested in during the former Yugoslavia, we stayed and that's just where we invested, but today we don't unfortunately have that energy. So I'd always be in favor of turning to what we can turn to, seeing how self-sufficient we can be in something, and then focusing on imports. So I would call for the removal of certain obstacles I see because I don't think we have a bad strategy and we have bad laws on renewable energy sources. I see a problem in implementation, and I can say that on one example, it's not acceptable that someone can get solar support on agricultural land, and they can't get on the roof of their stables.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66802	Thank you. The next one will be spoken by the esteemed representative Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66803	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Let's first realize how much electricity we spend in Croatia. So according to the data we could find in the file, we're spending approximately 18 hours on Terrawatt. Correct me if I'm wrong, I don't think I'm wrong. And about 3 terawatt hours we get from Krško's nuclear power plant with that 50% of how much we spend from that power plant. And these 3 Terrawatt hours actually represent some 15-16% of our consumption. Now, given that we have signed the requirement to equate energy from nuclear power plants with renewable energy sources that we are talking about when we talk about European green transition, we must be aware that we are probably preparing to use additional nuclear power plants to actually get electricity from these power plants. And now, if we give up building what we have to build by contract or, as our colleague says, that we take other people's capacities, and we pay an additional EUR 120 million, we don't have our capacity, if we're going to spend extra energy from nuclear power plants, we're going to have additional costs again. These costs will increase the price of our electricity. Can we afford it or need smart policy and smart approach, of course, with local self-governments and policies at the state level and all the other acts we need to take to manage this waste properly? That's a big question. There are countries in Europe from France with 58 nukes across Russia 36, Ukraine 15, Britain 15, Sweden 10 and Germany 8 and so on to countries that have no nuke at all. And some will now have a big problem getting rid of CO2. Take, for example. Poland. Poland has everything on coal, and how will it solve this problem? So we're currently fighting CO2 emissions. And we need to find a smart way to get the waste that came from the energy production that we're using, to take care of that waste in the right way. Are we going to take care of him with us, if he's such a politician, it was actually a contract signed if I'm not mistaken or we're going to take him somewhere else it's a big, big question. If we're gonna take care of it out there, I think it's closing our doors for further use of nuclear power. On the other hand, I think we can use that money wisely to secure other green energy sources. I don't know if you saw information about the northern link, North Link, where they connected Germany and Norway, in 2015 they started connecting and today Germany is getting electricity from Norway. Why? Because in Norway, energy is cheap. At some point even electricity was in Norway, the price of energy was down. Why? It happened to them that there were large amounts of snow, that summer came, people went on vacations, there was no need on the market to spend energy and prices fell below, under actually some normal. And actually the Germans basically when you look logically, logically they actually use Norway as their battery for electricity. And we have great potentials, water potentials, that's more our last bench colleague could tell us about how much these potentials, how much these potentials are especially in the river Cetina, so we need that money that we have in reserve to spend on actually those resources that we have at our disposal. And that's water energy amongst other things.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66804	We've got a few replicas, the first respected representative of Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66805	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Pavic, I'm just gonna repeat what I said because I don't think you understand me very well. So, if a deal has been reached in dialogue with Slovenia so far to take care of high-radioactive waste and if the agreement has gone in this direction to take care of low and medium radioactive waste that will occur after the decommissioning of Krško nuclear waste, or after its working age, we are talking about 50 metres of cubic waste in Croatia. I'm just asking if it's logical to build a special dump for that, or to try to reach an agreement with Slovenia for those 50 metres of cubic ones as well? What's more rational? That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66806	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66807	Well, I agree with you as far as logic is concerned, and it would be best if we didn't have nuclear waste dumps anywhere in Croatia, that would be best for us. However, I have asked specifically this secretary what is the difference in price. I was told that the price difference is compared to what we are building in Croatia and if we delay it abroad to make the difference of EUR 120 million. We can spend that EUR 120 million better somewhere. What? None So I'm fine, I got the number right. [[No, no, we can't do that.]] So the difference is EUR 120 million and we can spend it more wisely. Spend in a way that we use it to produce electricity from other sources of green energy. That's all I'm saying. We have to be part of it in some way. I agree with you it would be good if we didn't have that dump, but if we can't do it without it or if it's too expensive, then we have to do what we have to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66808	Honorable representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66809	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. You opened your colleague Pavić up to this energy source. So, you started your exposure with the fact that we need electricity and that I doubt that I, too, doubt that anyone would give up today's commodity that we have and the way of life we have. We also need to know that Croatia has met certain instructions from EU level when hydropotential is recognised as a renewable energy source. I personally advocate having a different beauty, so both a renewable and some other things because a small country like us, if it only binds in one way, it just won't be good. So something that was unimaginable 3 years ago, we don't need to move on, and that's nuclear energy, now it's open as a topic. I think it's a good thing it's open as a subject and we should discuss it, but let's just say when we talk about hydropotentials. Surely, from the point of view of environmental protection, there is a bigger problem [[Employed: Thank you, Honored Representative Pavić]] Lakes than something else. [[/Intruder: Thank you, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66810	I'm asking you nicely.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66811	Thank you, thank you for... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66812	I'm sorry, Col. Pavić, I'm asking you all to give yourselves a nice time, you all go five seconds, which is 10, which is 15 seconds, when it's summed up, we're now, 6 hours is not yet another point or far away, we've got a third point, we'll stay up to 10 hours at least if we keep it that way. Let's just stick with the time, please, everybody. I'm sorry to interrupt, but here's my colleague Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66813	Thank you, I'm trying to explain because I completely agree with you. The point is, at some point, we're going to have a big problem. We need to sort of get rid of CO2 on the one hand, on the other hand, our electricity consumption is growing, and we are not able to do in a short period that is ahead of us to make so many wind power plants and so many solar power plants that we would have enough energy for, for our population and for our economy. So we need to find another alternative source of energy, whether it's nuclear or something else it's another pair of shoes, but right now we see that even in Europe, the nukes became acceptable, 10 years ago they were unacceptable, today it's quite different. I think we can do it differently because we have enough, we're rich enough with water and I think we can get this energy from other sources.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66814	The Honorable representative of the Brkan.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66815	Dear Representative, as you said, we get 16% of the total energy consumption from Krško Nuclear Power Plant and we get it at a very popular price to say from 40 euros per megawatt hour. Because we have such a favourable price coming from a nuclear source, we can and can encourage and invest large funds in the development of a renewable energy system. And that is why, if all this were to cost us to take care of weak and low radioactive waste that has been accumulated in total since 1981 by 2405 m3, not 50 m3, of these 2405 m3 is half of our Croatia that we have to take care of. And if it's already gone with the preferred location of the Cherkevac farthest in research and everything else, I believe it will end up at the end of that location with the largest possible environmental protection standards. Is it worth still having low, low electricity, price, low electricity?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66816	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66817	Yes, as I said at the beginning, I agree with my colleague that it would be better if we didn't have a dump site in Croatia, it would be all happy and satisfied, we know what resistances were to be made when a nuke was to be worked on the Vir, when this waste was to be done or dump at other locations in Croatia. So, we're all for no dumps. However, we must respect on the one hand the contracts, on the other hand we must make sure that our citizens live normally, that our economy normally works, that we have a normal price of electricity, and if the strategy is well written, we must agree that we simply have to respect contracts or pay it far more than is necessary, and just that we are so rich I think we are not, we have enough debt both to Europe and to our citizens and I believe that we should be responsible for spending this money. Therefore, a smart strategy [[Intruder: Thank you, thank you very much, time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66818	Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66819	Thank you very much. Energy is very important, energy is expensive, and who knows what it will be, energy independence is very important, especially as it concerns the sun in the Republic of Croatia which has not been used, so we have too much God-given days as far as the sun is concerned, I believe that our families will make energy independent, mostly poor families, we invest big money. As far as waste and waste management are concerned, I must show dissatisfaction, that's what I mentioned. And as for energy itself, when we look at the Fallen Krško, when we look at the Fallen-Krš, then you will see that these renewable sources of wind power are also at the expense of the Croatian man, but only at the expense of foreign investors. It doesn't mean there's some kind of ballast, but only to the harm of the people they use energy sources. Thank you, Lippa.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66820	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66821	Yes, that's why I was talking about having a smart policy, we need to have a smart strategy to benefit our people and to benefit our economy that should develop. Look, with any luck, if fusion is economically profitable in two, three, five, seven years. We won't talk about nuclear energy at all anymore, we won't talk about nuclear waste anymore. We'll do what we have to do in 2023. the deadlines, when we do that, we take care of it and then we're calm. There may be a new source of energy, but the current situation is where we simply have to find some, some energy source for that transitional period so that we can function, that our economy can work, that the state can function, that's not working without it. And again, as far as I'm concerned, it would be best if the waste dumps in Croatia were gone, but if necessary, and right now I think it's necessary, we have to have it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66822	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. Mr. Tomislav Okroša has his presentation now, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66823	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. Honorable state secretary with associates, distinguished MPs and MPs. An extremely interesting and important topic today on the agenda is definitely electricity and other energy sources are important for the whole world, both for the EU and Croatia. We are witnessing really big problems that, in the sudden rise in gas prices, oil, electricity and all other energy sources, it is clear that at this moment, the EU has also begun to question the majority's position on the nuclear power plant, which is why I will speak of it. We have before us this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Fund for the financing of the decommissioning and disposal of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel from Krško Nuclear Power Plants. As we know, Krško Nuclear Power Plant is a power plant that has been operating for almost a little over 40 years, and its work is projected over the next 20 years. It is the power of 630 megawatts and it is a safe source of electricity already here for many years, but clearly, since we are always co-owners of Krško Nuclear Power Plant, we are also obliged to participate in the care of both less radioactive waste and that radioactive waste with a slightly larger source of radiation. Two weeks ago, the Republic of Croatia joined with nine other EU member states an open letter stressing the importance of nuclear energy in the fight against climate change. In fact, decarbonisation requires immediate and deep transitions in production and consumer activities. Renewable sources play a key role in energy transition, but nuclear energy is a stable and independent source of carbon-free energy and must be part of a solution to combat climate change. Nuclear energy is an opportunity to step up and develop a strong European industry with additional value, to create new skilled jobs and to play a leading European role in protecting the environment and to ensure Europe's strategic position as well as energy self-sufficiency. The supply problems will become more common and we have no choice but to diversify supply. We must be careful not to increase our dependence on electricity imports outside Europe, so the nuclear power plant must be part of the solution. Some of the nuclear energy arguments are available, a stable and independent source of energy that prevents European consumers from being exposed to price instability on the market. We are facing the possibility of opening up security of electricity supply through nuclear energy and becoming part of an innovative European nuclear industry. In the near future, the industry could also provide highly qualified jobs for more than a million European workers. As cooperation between Member States grows, we will have the opportunity to build technologically modern reactors such as small modular reactors that we have opportunities to witness in Finland. As a result, nuclear energy should be treated as all other low-carbon power sources. This energy source is imposed as an alternative resource under the conditions of accelerated energy transition. According to renewable energy sources, decarbonisation requires immediate and deep transitions in our production and consumer activities to make them less carbon-intense. The nuclear power plant is a carbon-free energy that can deliver a large amount of competitive electricity without increasing our dependence on imports. The latest report by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change made very clear forecasts that the global warming target of up to 1.5 to 2 degrees Celsius in the 21st century will never be achieved unless a significant reduction in greenhouse gas emissions occurs in the next eight years. To win the fight for climate, I think we need nuclear energy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66824	You, too. You have a series of replicas, the first line was sought by Mrs. Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66825	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague of the District. We are aware that we are living in a time of fast digital transition, the uncertainty of supply chains in this case of electricity, but also climate change leading to increased consumption of electricity. You're here talking about justification in some way and retaining the production of power from nuclear sources, so what do you think are the advantages of nuclear energy from some other energy sources? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66826	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66827	Thank you for your replica. Well, we are witnessing that on the global market, gas and oil are becoming increasingly needed for oil and gas, and we are actually becoming increasingly dependent on third countries that are the largest producers of oil and natural gas. I believe that the pollution resulting from CO2 emissions, which is the largest in the use of oil and natural gas, certainly has a significant impact on the health impairment of citizens, and surely if it were to see how bad a nuclear power plant has done for the health of the world's population, it must have made the energy with production and high share of CO2 such as oil and natural gas. I therefore believe that the nuclear power plant is certainly a cleaner form, a more stable form of electricity, and what I think is important to say is that electricity should also be consumed in those areas where real heavy consumption is so important and where electricity is produced.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66828	Thank you. Mrs. Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66829	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Representative Okroša, you spoke about the advantages of nuclear energy and I would like to hear from you and comment on the potential dangers when we talk about security because we know that both Chernobyl and Fukushima have happened and that cannot be denied and taken into account. HEP announced on its pages that by 2030 it plans to increase the share of renewable energy sources from 35 to more than 50%, increasing the power and production of existing hydropower plants, building new hydropower plants, investing in wind power plants, solar power plants and other renewable energy sources. Do you feel that given the views you have made, the HEP should then revise this plan and turn to some other energy sources?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66830	Thank you, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66831	I think HEP doesn't need to revise its plan because essentially the most stable source of electricity is just having a diversified complete portfolio of electricity which means our renewable electricity sources are mostly coming from hydropower plants, but here we depend on the climate of the year whether it's going to be a dry year or it's going to be a rainy year. If the year is rainy for us, our needs for, so our own production of electricity is certainly to a greater extent. But it happens that in solar power plants and wind power plants we depend on many factors like, do we have, do we have enough solar days, if we have enough rose wind, etc. in those areas. So I think that definitely in our overall portfolio all power sources should be represented, and most of all those that we can produce ourselves, and the nuclear power plant definitely can.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66832	Mr. Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66833	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear representative, says 6% of the world's total energy comes from nuclear sources. The perception of nuclear energy is generally not great and wonderful when we think of those two disasters that have hit us, but it seems to me that there has been a turning point lately, and professional science has been saying that they are rightly nuclear and that they can first of all not pollute with CO2, and on the other hand they can contribute significantly to these conditions when we have a terrible collection of electricity.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66834	Thank you, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66835	Yes, as I mentioned, we have witnessed the sudden climate change that towards experts because of the amount, the amount of CO2 in the atmosphere above all limits, so I don't think we should run away from potential dangers that can come from nuclear power plants but we should look at this growing moment of major climate change, such as huge fires, droughts, floods, a huge storm which unfortunately will increase sea levels, warming and melting of ice, means definitely all that is happening is the consequence of a large amount of CO2 in the air and I think we should do everything before being completely or partially converted to renewable energy sources, that we should use nuclear energy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66836	Mr. Ostojic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66837	You have to decide whether you're a HDZ agent or you're a nuclear energy lobbyist. Okay, or one or the other, you can't do it together, I'll report you to conflict of interest. Now that you're talking about 10 countries, what countries are these? Finland mentioned it, it has its own interests. France has an interest. Other 8, Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Croatia, Hungary, Poland, Slovakia, Slovenia, Romania. E's our company. Where are the Mediterranean countries,.../incomprehensible/... security there is.../incomprehensible/... you don't think clearly. So you're... you're incomprehensible... put on a badge, say lobbying, look, please and that's okay. But don't be undercover by one party, no matter what party, propagate nuclear energy and speak only benefites, not negative sides. This is dangerous what you do, this is very dangerous especially in a country that lives and where every 5 kuna comes from tourism. If we're free of nuclear power, let's be free of disposal. nuclear waste. [[Intruder: Thank you very much Mr. Ostojić.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66838	Thank you, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66839	Thank you, Agent Ostojić, in your opinion, means at the Faculty of Electrical Engineering and Computing, the Faculty of Natural History and Mathematics should not learn anything about, about fusion, about nuclear science, because if you know anything about it, you are an automatic lobbyist of nuclear, please allow that,... Please. [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] Let me finish. [[Please don't.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66840	Mr. Ostojić I'll have to give you a warning, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't follow, here's a warning, Mr. Ostojić you have a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66841	So I'm just going to finish what, as in your science there are different ways and different interpretations of how to solve a problem, so let energy have different opinions. My personal opinion, the attitude of a man who I studied in electrical engineering and finished electricity and I believe that the nuclear power plant, good, with all its faults, is a good source of electricity because if it wasn't a good source we wouldn't be using for 40 years a Krškok nuclear power plant that gives us 16% of our annual electricity needs. So when we talk about electricity, we need to know exactly that at renewable energy sources, we have periods in which production is not enough. And the nuclear power plant is quite enough. For balancing and balancing energy [[Intruder: Thank you very much, time.]] such renewable electricity sources. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66842	Mr. Brkan, replica, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Bourkan, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66843	The Honorable Chairman here, I am sorry to have to lift the breach of the Rules of Procedure, but you have acted on your own. Representative Mr Ostojić injured Rules of Procedure Article 238.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66844	You should, you want to pull or you move on. Now that I've given the warning, would you like to take it back?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66845	And I didn't know, did you give a warning?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66846	Well, it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66847	I'm sorry, I didn't hear if you gave a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66848	Okay, okay, don't waste any time, I mean listen up. Sir, there's no replica on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Dreven Buddinski Replicas, Mrs. Dreven Buddinski, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Intruder: Ma'am.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66849	I'm asking you as the head of a unit of local self-government, we've heard that space, that Drniš residents are uninformed and that they don't know about it and that the county below or above the table will bring them a spatial plan, so let me ask you if it's possible to bring about a change and an addition of a spatial plan without going to a public competition and not going to see it. So there's a public tender that even takes up to a year to get to know the population about the changes in the spatial plan, and especially not on this topic when the disposal of nuclear waste is in a community. I think it's not just that Drnis municipality, it's the whole county, and the whole part of it is very interested in public debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66850	Thank you, too. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66851	Amendments and additions to the spatial plan of each unit of local and regional self-government are adopted, so first it is going to adopt such acts on municipal, city councils, county councils. Then it goes to the insight, so there is definitely time for a public debate on changes and additions to spatial plans. Every change and addition of the spatial plan is publicly visible, given for counselling so that it definitely does not appear that the population in the municipalities or the city you listed will not be informed of any changes and additions to their spatial plans.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66852	Thank you. Mr. Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66853	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague, you say sudden climate change. As an energist and a man who is proud of the knowledge of mathematics and elementary physics I find it interesting that you all saw it as a sudden, it was probably just this summer this sudden change. But for you, it is still not a crisis and there is no reason for the European climate crisis to be declared in this House. You obviously can explain it scientifically. And do you know that the Slovenian court has decided that a strategic environmental impact assessment must be made at the request of the Slovenian environmental associations and climate crisis resolution and that our environmental associations as well as the Austrian organisations are very much following it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66854	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66855	That dear colleague Matula, I don't know how you of my presentation realized that I'm not concerned about climate change. I'm definitely worried. I mentioned them several times through exposure, but we have to be very simple. Yes, mathematics is an exact science. Yeah, so if we need 300 things, 300 megawatts, gigawatts, terawatts of electricity, to satisfy day and year-on-year consumption, we have to produce, introduce, create. It's an exact science. So the system would work we have to have as much electricity as we need. The problem with electricity is that in large quantities it is still impossible to store permanently, store as oil and natural gas can be stored. To me, I absolutely agree, and to me, environmental protection is one of the important topics, and I definitely support it, and we need to discuss it. But I would always answer by countering what I suggest, then what is the alternative power source and that is enough for our needs?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66856	Thank you. Well, I'd like to actually ask you two questions. First, it's about the rentability of nuclear energy. When we calculate the price of electricity from nuclear plants, if we add to the investment what is the huge cost of investment and how much more is the cost of decommissioning, then one nuclear power plant. It would come to this that in 5 to 10 years, given the development of renewable technologies, nuclear energy may be more invaluable than the one we can have from renewables. So I'm curious when we're looking at a five to ten-year period as you see it can be worth it, because now you're going to build a new reactor, the new wing of Krško will not be nearly within those five years, but between five and ten most optimistic estimates when maybe that energy will be inert compared to renewables. So, what is the position from which you represent the new nuclear wing in Krško?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66857	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66858	A well-defined question, but we are living in a situation where the price of natural gas in the world market has tripled in a year. Who knew that two years ago? Perhaps the price of gas or oil will be doubled in the next two years, and what I am not advocating is the fact that the cost of building a nuclear power plant is relatively fixed and clear. So the cost of produced electricity from the nuclear power plant is relatively clear when we talk about prices, and the cost of gas, oil or due to these climate change, we can't really know what's going to happen in the next 50 years how safe it's going to be for the new wing of the nuclear power plant, which is going to be with the sun, the amount of rain. So basically everything in your electricity is pretty questionable, and that's why there's a power stock market both on a daily, monthly, annual level.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66859	Thank you. Time. And Mrs. Dragon's final replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66860	Thank you. Dear colleague Okroša, we haven't solved for decades, and we haven't found a solution to nuclear waste in our country, and we all know that our future is green transition and renewable energy sources. The fact is, in a few years, everything will work on electricity, water or something else, and we need these sources. What is your opinion of nuclear power plants and nuclear energy in relation to the economy and health protection?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66861	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66862	Electricity at a large door and in traffic replaces gasoline, diesel. We're witnessing here for the first time in Germany last year more electric cars were sold than diesel cars. So it's definitely switching to electricity as a transport energy source. What we're talking about is that one factor in health stability is very questionable. I have been to Slovakia in their new nuclear power plants personally since my studies, so not that anyone would think when they mention the country that they are back countries like Mr Ostojić wanted to imply. So these are countries that have created new nuclear power plants for their independence, so here we can read something about their safety or their impaired health of the inhabitants of these areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66863	Thank you. Time. You don't have any more replicas. Now it's Mr. Willy Matula's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66864	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President, the Secretary of State with his associates, colleagues and colleagues. My impression is that this year's situation is climate change, above all in Belgium and Germany, which has really led to incredible climate phenomena, devastating floods in these rich, important, powerful countries. Amazing temperatures at the Mediterranean in Greece, and especially in Sicily, it seems to me that this was all the reason why Prime Minister Plenkovic literally greened. And it's like you're all green after that on some team building like HDZ. We've seen that of course and great money you've got from a green plan that's largely directed, which they've already greened directed before but now we're coming up with an amazing thing, and that's that suddenly wants a nuclear lobby and nuclear power to green. Well, that's not gonna work! As much as it may be necessary in some places, it is said that the whole of Europe has turned. That's not true! France turned after Macron failed to force the poor to pay off every gas shift to green energy. And after that poor girl went crazy in the yellow vests, then what happened happened. But Merkel, who'll let you know something about the physics she studied, and chemistry ended up in quantum chemistry, and along with all those people, after it seemed to them that the disciplined Japanese, if the circumstances could happen to them, such a disaster could happen to everyone. I just want to tell you Denmark, Austria, Belgium, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, these are all the countries that have not done a single sound as much as you want to tell us here now, nor will there be any new wings of Slovenian that you are talking about here because you agreed so. No one's asked that around here, of course. It's just that it's a trick to extend this situation in Krško by 20 years. What Slovenian colleagues and Austrian are proposing, I think it's something very good about Krškoga. A credible earthquake insurance policy. That's something. If this policy will be really convincing and if it will be possible to pay, then fine, let the work be extended just as the people who have sought and received this very good decision of the court, which is that in this case, in this crisis all these arguments that you have mentioned for five years, to five years to possibly extend it. And not what you've just explained to us now that all of a sudden, there's a colleague named Brkan who's been able to explain to us that this is actually where it's actually going to be done when it's going to be burned in some little chest that's then going to be taken to Cherkezovac and there's no problem. It's completely forgotten that this is about the decommissioning of the nuclear power plant. So imagine these floods or what we saw in the Czech Republic, and that's the same reason you're all so green. When you saw those leeches an unimaginable march that they made and the damage, the horror, the disaster. Imagine if such leeches came to this nuclear power plant now, they'd do a lot of damage. And imagine at the moment of the decomposition of all that. It's all very sensitive, and the chances of such leeches from summer to summer are getting bigger and bigger but you're not going to vote climate crisis, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66865	The first replica, Mr. Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66866	Thank you very much, Vice President, dear colleague Matula, I wouldn't want him to understand from the debate of Honorable Representative Okroš that he's some kind of lobbyist, that he lobbys for someone. It's a very bad message and it would be a bad message. Those weren't his words. But let's get back to the scale. We're essentially discussing nuclear waste management here today, but we've expanded the subject significantly wider and we're talking about nuclear energy in general. So 16 terawatts, 16 billion if translated like that. We need power. 16% gives us the Krško nuclear power plant, how do you replace the rest? What would be best for you if it could be applied in the next five, ten or fifteen years, thirty-fifty and for citizens to be satisfied with the price of energy they will pay in view of the standards they have in their own country.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66867	Thank you very much. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66868	Dear colleague Ivanovic we put on roofs for the start of the tanning room, let's do it in larger cities, especially in Dalmatia where the sun is abundant. Go through the Alpine countries, pass through Austria you will see that almost every one, in Slovenia, you already have solars almost on every pig, on every barn. Let's do it. We can do this relatively quickly. We're going to hire people, we're going to hire people around, and it can be a very important job, and then we're going to see from year to year how it happens. In addition, the batteries develop at an enormous rate and are already being deposited in America. Yeah, uh... He's been doing this for a long time to deposit some of that solar energy into those batteries, and he's filling up his Tesla cars and doing all that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it's possible, but we can't let you guys do these kinds of ventures that lose trust like with wind power plants anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66869	Thank you very much, Mr. Matula. Mr. Brkan.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66870	... I didn't say we'd compromise. [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]] [[Intruder Radin: Microphone.]] I cited how the Krško nuclear power plant is already doing it. So radioactive waste, irradiated work clothes, materials, filters that can't be decontamination sent to Europe, do them a service of reduction, melting, combustion and such compressed, processed back and stockpiling at the Krško nuclear power plant. The same thing, if the centre is built, and there will be construction of a radioactive waste centre in Croatia, the process will be repeated for our part of the work of active waste. And I ask you if you are concerned that since the first X-ray came to Croatia all institutional radioactive waste you stand here at the Institute of Medical Research sealed or at Ruđer Boskovic Institute without being compromised.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66871	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66872	Thank you, dear colleague Brkan. Yeah, I'm less worried because you've said it yourself since the first X-ray on here I have great confidence in the medical profession and I really think it's very responsible people and that they're doing it well and that there's a less chance of whatever it is, but I agree that it should be put off somewhere, that it should be asked about the people involved in this military Cherkezovac. They certainly need to be discussed, not avoided. I reacted a little bit, I understood that it was being sent out, that I said that I, I was also fascinated by what amount of technical data you might have. And I thought at first that you were exactly what you were professional in that sense, that when you went so detailedly to describe it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66873	Thank you. Mr. Kolarek.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66874	Dear colleague Matula, you said one very interesting thing and it's an instrument of insurance. We come not only for me there is a colleague Marić from Međimurje County where the largest accumulation lake and hydrocenter Čakovec 1 Čakovec 2. If any earthquake occurs, more than a third of Međimurje and Koprivnica will flood. Does the insurance instrument apply to us not only to areas where radioactive waste is taken care of if you understand me?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66875	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66876	Thank you. Dear colleague Kolarek, I am convinced that in this sense they are doing the same assessment and I hope that it is also able to be done and that you can get such a policy. I want to believe that's possible. I'm telling you because Krško is so close. You're like the Međimurje still important away now. Yet in this sense you are further away from this dreary situation in which we both found ourselves in Zagreb and in Krapina-Zagorje County, especially in Banja. The karsk is very, very close to it. And as much as it was built for 8 degrees it should at least now be evaluated and re-checked if this new wing of 8 billion euros is difficult.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66877	Thank you. You don't have any more replicas. Thank you. Now it's Mrs Mirela Ahmetovic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66878	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. I will try to touch every topic I wanted to say in this debate on behalf of the MPs' club, but also I heard during your debate, or during the replicas. In fact, we're a little off topic here. We started to discuss whether we want nuclear energy or not, even though it's good and that debate, although it's good to even discuss what we want, and what we won't even be here if the citizens don't ask. However, I have singled out three things that the law touches, i.e. basic issues that are governed by this law. Among other things, the establishment of the Radioactive Waste Management Centre. With this in mind, the basic problem is no questions, no local authorities, no citizens of the Dvor municipality related to the establishment of the centre where waste will be stored. And to my colleagues from the HDZ ranks, I apologize I forgot the last name she asked, asked my colleague how long, or how much spatial plans are being adopted and you said in your own question that the spatial plan is being brought in a way that is public tendering, I quote you: "which lasts a year." No, the spatial plan is not being adopted in a way that public tender can be announced for a year, but in a very bad and slow procedure and this procedure of adopting a spatial plan can take a year and more days. But the spatial plan is county and municipal, or city. In this case, municipally. So the municipality is, the local government strongly opposes determining this location as the location of the disposal of the waste. With this in relation to personal experience, it will be installed in the county plan where HDZ has a majority, so where it will be able to be installed, and then the state will simply put that location directly on the basis of the county's spatial plan through direct implementation, i.e. where residents of the municipalities do not want it. Is 150 of us here more important than the 6,000 inhabitants of the Dvor municipality? I'm sorry there's not a single resident of the Dvor municipality among us. Why didn't any of us ask at least one of the residents of the Dvor municipality if he wanted it in his backyard? It's not because we don't care, and we don't owe you how much the gentlemen and the ladies of the ministry owe us. And did they ask them? According to all statements, both local authorities and residents are not and that is what is sad. So, I don't argue at all if the residents agree with that location, so there's no problem. But someone has to ask them, they have to ask. As regards the second point of purpose, resources and management of funds. What I'm interested in is what was invested in, who was loaned to? That doesn't say in detail anywhere, that the Secretary of State said that the fund over time increased the funds it received from HEP, the HEP budget by investing in securities, shares, etc. But I'm interested in where that money ended, or where it was all invested. What are those points where the money was lost? It was getting lost somewhere. It was getting somewhere. Obviously, it was getting more than it was getting lost. But I'm curious because it's public money where it was lost by investing in what, who? What is the third point of my interest bonds of payment and compensation in the fund are also subject to this law, but I want to point out here HEP is a payment obligation in that fund. HEP from your assets. Who pays HEP money, or where does HEP money come from, from the pockets of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia? We've all heard that electricity is relatively cheap, because we have a source of nukes. What's cheap? So do you know what the fees are for that market cost of electricity? The fees I asked for to be reduced in this situation or abolished. All of these citizens pay out of these fees, HEP makes a billion-and-a-half profit that makes me half of it back to the state budget, is not able to make an investment that would allow those imports of electricity to be reduced by 34% which we all talk about, so we wouldn't have to, like counterpart Petir said, import neither nuclear energy, but rather from our sources. Then you wonder, one of you MPs here asked a question and what we're going to do, what we're going to invest in. Well, nuclear energy is the cleanest of these available. And what about the geothermal sources that we just put into very suspicious concessions that are withdrawn by the shows checked, by television, etc. Why are we giving everything away? We're handing all our energy sources over to the Hungarians. Read today's National. Geothermal sources in concessions are given, renewable sources are only given by large wind power plants. Citizens don't ask questions, but when it comes to waste, we're quick to get the citizens in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66879	Thank you very much. Mrs Ahmetovic, you have replicas, so you will be able to continue. Mrs. Maric's first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66880	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, you spoke in the presentation. Before that, I also mentioned in the replica, so it can be seen that in the media last year, the fund indicated that in order to inform the public about the warehouse in Cerkezovac, it will hire a public relations agency to invest three million kunas and that transparency, communication, prevention of misinformation will be very important. You said, therefore, and we know that in fact the local population, the local self-government units no one really asked or explained to them what a benefit would be for them. On the other hand, you have a former Green Action leader who says that we are actually doing political stupidity by imposing such a dump near the Bosnian border, and on the other hand, Slovenians are doing ecological stupidity. So on the one hand, no one explains anything to the local population, and on the other hand, you have some contradictory statement of the profession, or politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66881	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66882	Thank you, colleague Maric. Well, that's exactly what's weird. It's funny that that kind of money has been invested for years in the direction of training a location that isn't. It's like a preferred location. It's already been decided by someone, but he dares not say that it was a chosen location that was favourable or unfavourable. Well, that location isn't based at all in any document, not even in the spatial plan, not in the spatial plan. And you've already spent money and spent it and kept spending it, because you know you're going to do it, so where is the crack that's favourable or unfavourable? When you speak, no one has spoken to the residents about the benefits. That's where the fee is mentioned. I welcome the fee, but there is no compensation for people, there is no fee that will compensate or pay people the dignity that no one has asked them to settle such a waste or anything else in their children's yard in their future. There's no such thing as compensation. There are people with dignity and who want a future, they don't need your fees.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66883	Thank you. Mrs. Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66884	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. counterpart Ahmetovic, I will return to that topic of spatial planning. So, the state has its own obligation to make a state spatial plan by law. In order to make a state spatial plan before that, strategic environmental impact assessments should also be made. Which means a strategic environmental impact assessment to predict these two, three or four locations and to see their comparative advantages, i.e. flaws. There's no such thing as a procedure. It doesn't exist, and everything has to be notified to the public. So today these smart phones can be seen at any time what's in their space where they live or where it's possible. So, you just compare the cards that exist today and that are credible would come to see where it's even possible to plan, and what's expected of the state, so from the central state to determine whether it's a delay or not, and then if so.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66885	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66886	Thank you very much. Well, you're absolutely right. What is amazing is that the state is developing national strategies, plans with a view to 2020 to 2030, with a view to the future until 2070, and does not consider space at all. So someone just sits down and has to write some paper, some kind of document, and there's a little memory of maybe Bakar, maybe Omis, maybe I don't know the Queen, maybe the Court, maybe this, maybe that. So where are we going to set something up, so let's throw it over there and we'll get it easy. So if they rebel, if it's not convenient, we remembered, we decided. It'll be over there. Enter into a national strategy and we are now working on a national strategy because everything is done vice versa from that logically reasonable and established and law-based path entirely vice versa. And when are you going to talk to these residents? When do you do an environmental impact study? That's when you don't have to talk anymore. That's when it's over because you know that this environmental impact study is about to adopt. You know that.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66887	Thank you. Mr. Brkan.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66888	Dear counterpart Ahmetovic, I understand the concern of any unit leader of local self-government when someone in your community wants to put something in your community that no one has asked you about. A completely understandable concern that this environmental impact study will be adopted by a pure majority of handlifting. But I think you've gone too far after all. We heard today from the Secretary of State that contacts with the municipality exist, that they are talking to them, that there is room for office in the municipality of Dvor where information will be provided on this subject, that this office is actually being paid. And I believe in this current analysis, if we are only able to implement the public procurement of the performer of the Environmental Impact Study, that all of this will be done and all of this remains in accordance with the laws and regulations and that the public will be aware of all the harmful and possibly good consequences for them at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66889	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66890	With all due respect, you and I both know what I'm saying, and you understand me very well, and you're very supportive of me, but you can't say it. So what's problematic in the whole area is the fact that first it's determined and founded, or it says that this location will be exactly the location, and then when people are rebelled, and the local government and the population are quite rebelled, and then it starts talking, then it's said talk. And what's the result of the conversation? He's gone, he won't be here because you can't buy people. You can buy a lot of things, but you can't buy some people. So that's the problem. And there's no charge to buy these people with, there isn't. It doesn't exist!
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66891	And finally, Mr. Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66892	Thank you. Dear counterpart Ahmetovic, I support, I fully agree with your interest and the struggle for the citizens of the municipality of Dvor. However, I would like to say that all of this is still an account without innkeepers and that this is the decision of the Slovenian court for the Krško nuclear power plant, because it has decided to seek a positive strategic environmental impact assessment as well as an environmental impact assessment for Trbovska gora, for a military Cerkezovac in the municipality of Dvor. However, here it is very clear, and the key thing is if before moving into decommissioning this is a decommissioning fund not only for the construction of this warehouse in the municipality of Dvor, but for the decommissioning of the nuclear power plant and for the installation of that waste that will only then appear.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66893	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66894	Thank you very much. I agree with you. Actually, it was your finding. But not just that. I would also like to answer one question that was asked in the meantime whether we were more likely to postpone it in Slovenia or to build a centre with us, so it was said that if we built a centre, we would save 120 million euros, which is 900 million kuna. 900 million kunas will be saved so much, and HEP has won a billion and a half kuna that is not used for investment to reduce electricity imports. So HEP has that money to simply hand that waste over to Slovenia. Do you understand me? HEP charges massive electricity when it succeeds, when it even generates a billion-and-a-half kuna profit, and it does not want it, it is not capable, it does not want to work, it does not want to enable Croatia not to import 34% of electricity because it does not want a sufficient thermal power plant.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66895	Time. Thank you. Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. And now it's time for the closing words. The first is Mr. Ljubomir Kolarek, who will speak on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66896	Thank you very much, well-respected chairman, respected secretary of state with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. Here at the end of one I will say dynamic and quality discussions at the first reading Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Fund for the financing of the deployment and disposal of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel of Krško nuclear power plants this law is also linked to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Radio Nuclear Safety Act which will be followed. I will repeat what we have heard and what is important and important to propose in it. This bill intends to settle the following basic issues which the state body is exercising in relation to the fund, whose body the fund is responsible for its work, the scope of the fund's responsibility with its work, the scope of the fund's guarantee for the work of the fund and the public authority of the fund. In short. Amendments to the Law on the Fund for the financing of decommissioning and disposal of radioactive waste spent nuclear fuel from Krško nuclear power plant will comply with the provisions of the current Fund Act with the new or amended legal, sublegal and implementing regulations directly affecting the activities and powers and obligations of the Fund. It is important to stress that amending the law will allow for the establishment and management of the Centre for the Management of Radioactive Waste by the Fund. There are not too many secrets and ambiguities here because this legislative proposal is in fact harmonising the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with EU legislation. Accordingly, together with the Republic of Slovenia, the signing of an interstate contract, and the adoption of all international conventions, the directive and the like have committed itself to decommissioning and providing spent nuclear fuel or radioactive waste resulting from the operation and decommissioning of the plant. These are the topics of dumps, accommodation and waste management and waste care... sensitive and happy to get points on them either they're positive or they're negative. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Not only when it comes to nuclear waste where the matter itself can cause people to doubt and fear but fresh examples of waste disposal and the creation of organic bombs in our cities that should be synonym for development. Of course this is about a whole other kind of waste and a whole other rule. ... I would like to emphasise that these topics are trying to access as carefully, discreetly and quality as possible. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] We are witnessing major and constant changes in the supply of different forms of energy. With this law, the Republic of Croatia wanted me to admit it or not to consolidate and establish its energy future because 15 or 16% of the energy is not to be rejected, so it is necessary to be smart and realistic, to get in touch with the unit of the regional and local self-government in the construction of existing spatial plans because I believe that these units or that unit must have bonity. It is also good for them to share and decide. And what is most important of all the proposed law is consistent with the strategy, with the national strategy and the National Programme of the Republic of Croatia. For this reason, the HDZ Club will support the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Fund for the financing of the decommissioning and disposal of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel from Krško Nuclear Power Plants in the first reading, and if there are quality proposals and remarks of course to be considered and supported.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66897	Thank you. Now it's Mrs. Devereaux's turn. Ruzica Vukovac, who will speak in front of the House Movement Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66898	... These amendments and additions to the Law on the Fund for the financing of the decommissioning and disposal of radioactive waste shall implement the implementation of the Republic of Croatia's obligations towards nuclear waste resulting from the work of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant and the disposal of other radioactive waste, which is certainly commendable. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, the Fund Act came into force in 2007 and since then, no location has been defined, i.e. the location of the building of a storage site on the former military Cerkezovac space in the Trzag River near the Zagreb Union near the border with BiH, which apparently brings a protest of the local population on both sides of the border, which is even clearer after this debate was held. Low-radioactive waste is produced in hospitals, laboratories, industry and nuclear fuel, cycles. This type of waste actually consists mainly of protective clothing, gloves, tools, cloths, cleaning materials, or anything that contains less, say so to the quantity of mostly short-circuited isotopes. The creation of low and medium-sized waste is one of the lower products of electricity generation in nuclear power plants. These types of waste have a shorter period of decomposition and layoffs. High-oradioactive waste consists of highly radioactive physical products and some heavy elements with a significantly longer half-life. High-oraradioactive waste accounts for 3% of total radioactive waste, but 95% of total radioactivity. No research on favourable locations for the disposal of high-radioactive waste has been carried out in Croatia so far. Such research should again cover the entire area of the Republic of Croatia, but there is an obvious possibility that waste should be postponed at some of the EU's central sites. So, if the location of Cerkezovac also became a dump for low and medium-active waste, it would not also be a dump for the highly radioactive one. Therefore, the question arises if it is in the 14th year. We couldn't agree on the location of the tank. Are we going to make it by the end of our lifetime, the Krško Nuclear Power Plant? Until 2060. Croatia must also have a solution for the disposal of low and medium-sized waste that will represent the final location, so where is the question here with high-radioactive waste? In order to win the fight for climate, we need nuclear energy. This is all crucial for us and consider a reliable means for a low-carbon future, says the initiative why Europeans need nuclear energy signed on behalf of the Republic of Croatia by Deputy Prime Minister Zdravko Maric, and Minister of Economy and Sustainable Development Tomislav Coric. Undoubtedly, nuclear energy is highly efficient without CO2 emissions and with reasonable decommissioning and waste storage risks. Whether Croatia will one day have its own nuke or only a small group of similar ones will repossess taxpayers' money remains to be seen but knowing their insatiable hunger for our money is the answer, after all, already seen, I am afraid clear to all as a day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66899	You, too. - Mrs. Crescent. Sandra Bencic will perform in front of the Green-Left bloc's Green-Left Club, also final. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66900	I would like to thank the chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues. We've been talking here in this assembly about green transition for a year. Climate change I hope they haven't found you as a question or something that's happening suddenly because it's something that my colleagues have been working on since 1990-91. But in these years as we intensively talk about the green transition in the assembly, never before has nuclear energy as green energy been mentioned, not once, and then there's this big twist, so let's see in what context this big turn now took place. It happens right after the elections in Germany when the Muti is no longer mutated, some new ones came into retirement, and typically HDZ came to a dramatic shift in style, the king died, lived the king, the new king probably Emanuel Macron, so now it's not Germany that we look up to in terms of energy policy than we did to the French side who managed to bring together 10 countries to sign a letter asking for nuclear energy to be treated as green energy in terms of financing by the European Commission, the EU decided 7 days ago that the decision on whether sustainable financing would be considered financing nuclear energy delayed because actually when we look at a list of countries that signed it together with France we see that we have a serious gap within the EU where we again stood on the well-known side. So it is a letter that nuclear energy is green energy signed by France, Bulgaria, Croatia, to me, the Czech Republic, Finland, Hungary, Slovakia, Slovenia and Romania. We have a clear line on which most of these countries are going and where we're back together. So I would like to say that this is not the result of the thoughtful energy policy of the HDZ but rather the matter of changing the political context at EU level where Mr Plenkovic is now looking for a new protector because there is no longer a protector in Angela Merkel, and the fact is that it is also evident that the future new German government will not be the one to protect him. I was saying something about the price and I asked a question about the price of energy coming from nuclear power plants, so your colleague admitted that there was actually no answer to the question of what the price of nuclear energy would be in 5 to 10 years. And we're sure they'll be cheaper than the price of renewable energy. Why? So for the simple reason that, as the first cost of building a nuke, the costs of decommissioning are huge, the costs of nuclear waste storage are also enormous, the requirements for security that increase due to the international context, the security context, terrorism, etc., also cost in nuclear waste, but also the cost of material. And if we now imagine the situation that most countries will follow this situation and move on to nuclear energy at least as a form of stabilization of the energy system then the price of that material or uranium will rise and then the question is whether, at the same time, the price of renewable technology will fall, the question is what will happen in 10 years. When it's going to be built, which is going to be a cheaper version, but no, we're going in that direction because we see it's a Quickfix. Instead of investing in renewable technology and instead of exploring hydrogen together with the EU as a form, as a resource for energy conservation, and we know that there is already this technology that needs to be improved, but this improvement happens within 3 to 5 years, certainly within 10 years, and we go into a huge cost for which we don't know how it will end in 10 years, here I don't understand it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66901	Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Mirela Ahmetovic will speak in front of the SDP Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66902	Thank you very much, esteemed Vice President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. At the end of this debate on the law can in fact determine that harmonised laws with European directives are not questionable, of course it is desirable, although we are late, but it is desirable and welcome. The regulation of the form of the functioning of the fund is not questionable, it must be regulated, this fund exists, so we must have clear legal provisions in line with the European directives that operate. But what always grieves, saddens that from the point of view of the citizens concerned by this law, like when I discuss any other law, things don't work out on the ground. You know how it's gonna work? The form will be done, the paperwork will be covered, as I said it would be covered by the signatures of brave assistants because ministers aren't so brave and then they'll say here's the paperwork, everything's fine, everything's right, we go into construction, and the citizens, who care about the citizens, no one asks them. I therefore remind the state secretary and his associates here once again, but of course this occasion also Minister Coric and Prime Minister at the European Charter of Local Self-Government, which gives the right to the citizens of the Municipality of Dvor to participate in co-decision on projects whose construction is planned in their area, especially when it comes to projects of this kind. I also remind myself of Art.129.a of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which is clearly prescribed that units of local self-government are performing local affairs where citizens’ needs are directly met, especially those relating to spatial and urban planning. And don't skip the jurisdiction of certain levels, don't skip the local level, don't go into direct implementation of the county's spatial plan when you succeed, you can change that plan, don't pass a special law, so on. Lex about this location because it is possible for us to experience this, since even when you pass a special law on such a project, as you did with the LNG terminal then the consummation of this law by LNG Croatia does not respect this law as it does not comply with the provision in the law that says the terminal must be under the flag of the Republic of Croatia, and today it is under the flag of the Marshall Islands. Well, it's a strategic energy project for the Republic of Croatia that you boast so much about. Do not do this in the Municipality of Dvor and residents of the Municipality of Dvor. Since the building of the centre is a strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia, it would be time for the same Republic to determine the same strategic interest and its citizens, finally to build something and ask when to decide on their lives as this project decides on the lives of the citizens of the Municipality of Dvor. That communication does not require gentlemen three million kunas for any PR agencies but little respect for these people. So here's the government of the Republic of Croatia, Prime Minister Plenkovic and Minister Ćorić, I urge you to do the right thing, do the right thing, do the right thing, and treat those people who only want to live with their children as you live where you live, carefreely or more accurately, at least without even having that worry on their shoulders because they have nowhere to go and have nothing to go. You might have, they don't, and besides, they don't want out of their home. I ask the Government of the Republic of Croatia to finally present a proposal for a national spatial development plan for which the decision on construction was made in April 2018, I ask that a broad and transparent debate be held on the accommodation of such projects. Only in such a way can it be possible to protect the citizens of the Republic of Croatia from the violent, not transparency and illegal installation of such projects that no one wants in their place, but when someone has to receive such a project then let someone ask themselves something. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66903	Thank you, too. Mr. Rajko Ostojic will speak in front of the Social Democrats' Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66904	... I am convinced that you and each and every one of us here Mr. Vice President has one of the 200 UN countries or World Health that he thinks is a police state, the real police state. [[Specially enabled.]] I don't think I'm gonna talk about one country for good relations, not neighborhoods. But for God's sake, Croatia has every prerequisite to become a police state. Member States The National Institute for Radiological and Nuclear Security implementation of fellow Patir you were in Europe, under the MUP, the MUP concerned, neither the Ministry of Health nor the Ministry of Economy but the Gods of the MUP in '19, famous '19. Then doze covid-19 first line, now it is 22, then again I go to MUP... gone Milatić, and... now again cares about the security of the state, again not the Ministry of Health, again not the Ministry of Economy for the economic potential of Croatia global chain of all values and all that we are... but Bulj, MUP... a great chance to become a police state. But give it some color, don't do it all by yourself. Mr. Vice President, there may be someone here from the MUP for your post, so they'll get a warning every day. You're so democratic, you share it here and there.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66905	We're not gonna let that happen, is it Mr. Ostojic?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66906	And as you turned out, they put it under cover of Civil Protection we saw in the earthquake how the MUP reacted to Civil Protection, we saw it in catastrophes, masks or medicine. Now we all have masks, a year ago no one had masks, so Maja Grba said masks don't need, now she's saying they should, and that same Civil Protection didn't get masks or the Ministry of the Economy of the Stock Reserve, but it's important that the MUP controls everything. People of God live in dangerous times, I will not repeat myself, but Secretary of State Milatić knows well that the Stone Age has ceased not because there is no stone, but because I have it in Dalmatia in Herzegovina, but because the Bronze Age has come and the Mental Age, so the Iron Age. The oil age is over, the oil's over, but the dec it, the kerosene, closed, the oil doesn't play anymore. He's playing green. I went to get my book which, by the way, is a textbook, and I am co-author, there is Matula only has no Bencicka, sustainable development, University of 2016 is the author, not green policy but sustainable development, sustainable development of everything, for example, the city of Zagreb would be good if Tomašević finally started to make Zagreb a sustainable city together with Klisović SDP, we would be better off learning something from the lessons of what a sustainable city means, which means sustainable development. I'll leave the Gorans to you, so give this to your nuclear medical lobbyist, this book of mine dedicated to realizing that he is, that the Croat must fight for the safety of Croatia without being a lobbyist of nuclear energy. Let's keep it going, let's get it under someone else. In short, the SDP feels that we should be, excuse the Social Democrats, unfortunately the SDP no longer feels anything, that the Social Democrats think that we should be free of nuclear energy like all the Mediterranean countries that I have listed, that fellow Bencic has repeated what I have been counting, that we must be free of disposal, that we must do what is... He wisely did what was called TripleHelix, so he became QuadroproHelix, and eventually ended up in PentaHelix, which is that JLS, but not government associations as part of the pentax, decide according to the European Charter on our referendum. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] My colleague Sablar, on behalf of the Social Democrats Club, was quite clear here. We're looking for a referendum, some people from that neighborhood, and that's my ex-VI. Election unit, no longer is now II. decide on it, and we can hurt in the law that it's south, be careful, that's what fellow Petyr says about the south branch of that hill, so why south because it's facing BiH, so if it cracks, it'll crack and... in BiH, you won't... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] to the north side of Croatia. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, in short, you're working children's watches under the authority of the MUP, which is dangerous. I would like the Ministry of Health to deal with this, that the team continues to deal with the Ministry of Economy and we will be absolutely clear there, the referendum, we want to stay free from disposal, from nuclear energy, we want to be like other Mediterranean countries, not the signatories of this signature because HDZ has always sat on several chairs, but sit on the first two, you can't sit on three, you can't be both Germany and France and Finland and the Mediterranean.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66907	Thank you. And at the end of the day, Mr. Bully in front of the Bridge's Club of Representatives, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66908	Thank you very much. When we mention energy, then a lot of questions are raised, the driver of everything. But we always say that what's most important is space, and when we talk about space, then we're asking questions that form of energy we're using right now. We have renewable sources like this. Wind power stations, behind every hill, behind every hill. However, there is always a question of what local self-government or people have in the area. Nothing but more expensive energy. So our space, the wind blows, the dinar wind blows through the Fallen, ask dear God how much damage, invaluable damage. So silence is essentially a greater sin, a greater sin, and a conscience if we keep quiet about it. We've got another problem. There's a lot of change going on in that space. The local self-government is the one that brings up the spatial plan, but the senior order is the county plan. These are such procedures in fact where the dominant ones who are stronger pressurers are dominant. That's why we in Croatia, and we don't have the property that, the asset list, we don't have the property register. My local self-government doesn't have a register of property, and in all cities, we don't know what we're having, what space, what areas, which is why we don't have any wind power plants, and at this point, the wind power plants are basically nothing, literally giving local self-government or people, is because of it more expensive energy. Am I right? That it's more expensive, that because of them it's more expensive energy. That it is owned by Croatia, so let it throw at my house, that it is owned by the people and that it is cheaper, but when I see how wind power plants are installed, it is a disaster. Let's move on, Croatia is one of the most sunny countries in Europe. We have the sun as a natural resource, we have roofs I don't know the exact number. We just put the roofs, the microwaves, we'd create independent energy families, but apparently the monopoly doesn't give up an independent family. We only pay half a billion kuna for social assistance on heating yearly to our families at risk. If we could put that money in the sunroofs on those families' roofs, we could save us another year half a billion kuna, the savings would be, and that family would be independent. But politicians, as the locals do not answer to an independent family, do not want the family to have control, he wants the family they have poored by not blaming the family to come for social assistance for heating and thus controls them to be praised there mainly in these border areas, the mayors and mayors for helping the poor families. In fact, they've reversed them, they've created them addicts in their election and voting machines, and these families are neither guilty nor debtors, but they're addicted. We have room for clean energy or sustainable development, a colleague mentioned, sustainable development. So how we're going to have sustainable development, how much waste we're going to separate, how much energy is thrown into piles, not separated, not doing the job that needs to be done, and we're paying for the penalty. Here's my city of Sinj for 2018, which we haven't taken away from, we'll pay 800,000 kuna. Next year for 2019, who knows how much. And now that we add up all the money we pay back to Europe and pay for the foam, it's all energy, it's that plastic bottle, plastics, paper, all the energy, but we just brought into our people's addiction, targeted politically, they don't have a job, which is dependent on social aid, mostly local leaders. That's how the leaders hold it as their voting machine. You've killed a people with dignity, and I, as a local leader, see it. It comes to me often to cry what you've done to a man. Every law must be for a man, Not for the interest groups. [[Intruder Radin: Time, thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66909	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met. We move to the last item of the agenda today: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Radiological and Nuclear Security, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 179 The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the debate on this point, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. So far, the Committee on Legislatives, Health and Social Policy and Environmental and Nature Protection has been discussed. Does the applicant want to give an additional explanation? Mr. Zarko Katic, the secretary of state at the MUP, is with us. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66912	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen representing the HS. In front of you is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Radiological and Nuclear Safety which is proposed in an important way to comply with the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Fund for the financing of the decommissioning and disposal of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel from Krško Nuclear Power Plant, which would be on the agenda before this point. In this respect, the provisions of this Act relating to the activity, structure and financing of the Fund for the financing of the decommissioning and disposal of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel from the Krško Nuclear Power Plant and the provisions on the level and time limits of payment of compensation for the disposal of radioactive waste and used resources, as well as the amount of compensation and financing of units of local and regional self-government on whose territory the establishment of the centre is envisaged, as they are regulated by the law referred to above, which you have just discussed in the first reading. This law therefore harmonises the provisions of the two laws in the section governing the establishment of funds, founding rights and obligations in relation to the fund and the liability of the Fund for its work, so the provisions of the laws governing this matter of this law are deleted as surpluses. Furthermore, this law lays down the ultimate responsibility of the Republic of Croatia for the disposal of radioactive waste and spent fuel and spent resources generated in the area of the Republic of Croatia, which will not be prescribed by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Fund Act. Similarly, the responsibility of the Republic of Croatia for the disposal of radioactive waste spent fuel and spent sources in the area of the Republic of Croatia is prescribed in cases where the causeor or owner or owner for bankruptcy, liquidation or other reason cannot provide funds for their disposal or when it becomes insolvent or ceases to operate as well as for the disposal of sources, thus financing the disposal of resources without owners. This meets the requirements of the two Council Directives 2011 and 2013, and hence the law is aligned with, inter alia, the two Directives. Similarly, this law prescribes the obligations of a fund related to the closure of a landfill related to the measures for the period following the closure of deposits involving management, long-term supervision and the maintenance of a closed landfill. The second part of the amendments to the laws was carried out in the section relating to nuclear insurance. In addition, the nuclear security plan is prescribed to be a confidential document and to contain a cybersecurity plan. Since the law stipulates that the implementation of nuclear insurance refers to all sources of ionising radiation, it is proposed to amend this with respect to nuclear insurance, among other things, to only address radioactive sources and nuclear material. This excludes electrical devices that produce ionising radiation, which also belong to sources of ionising radiation. I would also point out from these changes and additions that they are proposed to carry out security checks only for persons working in certain nuclear facilities for the protection of classified data whose detection could endanger the nuclear safety of that plant, all in order to improve the nuclear safety of such plants. Jobs requiring security checks will be prescribed by the minister. Finally, I will repeat the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Radiological and Nuclear Security only for those activities provided for in the National Programme for the Implementation of the Strategy for the Management of Radioactive Waste of Used Fuel Sources and the basis of an agreement reached with the Republic of Slovenia, i.e. only for the disposal of radioactive waste and used sources, but not spent nuclear fuel coming from Krško Nuclear Power Plant. Here, these are the changes that are foreseen by this relatively short law. This is a total of 4 novels of the Radiological Nuclear Safety Act, which was adopted in 2013. Therefore, it is relatively often changed, and for the implementation of this law there is no need to provide additional resources in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia. Here, given the debate that must well concern both the one and the other law which was quite extensive and detailed in the debate on the previous agenda point, I think this would be sufficient to present for these amendments and the additions that are contained in this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66913	Thank you for the introduction, Mr. Katic. Now you have the replicas, you have the replicas, Mr. Katic. The first replica of Mrs. Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66914	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, when you look at this, these amendments to the law are then listed here in the table on what is the compliance of the provisions of EU regulations with the provisions of the draft regulations. And then the question is whether the content of the EU regulation is fully taken over. And then you have something that's been taken over and something that hasn't been taken over or partially taken over. And some argument is that a lot of those dots will just be taken over. So one part is bound to our existing laws, I think it's one seven laws and regulations, and the rest will be taken over. The date on which it will be taken is 20.10. So why are we so late? And I think that even on the board, I've asked and received the answer that we've been warned twice that we're wrong, so some kind of injury from the EU. So why are we late, did we do it together now? The 20th is over, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66915	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66916	The EU that we have received under this law with these amendments and the additions to the laws and regulations to be adopted on the basis of it will be fulfilled. Unfortunately, the law is a little late compared to, this is the first reading, we believe that by the end of the year we will be sent and the law will be passed, so in the second reading, and then there will be immediate adoption of sublegal acts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66917	Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66918	Thank you very much. Security is most important and it guarantees both economic development and overall development and image creation of one, one state. I am interested in whether nuclear waste is controlled as it is at the institute, is mentioned earlier, at the Ruđer Boskovic Institute and how many dumps we currently have that are not adequate and conditional on how many places. So we know about this one at the Ruđer Boskovic Institute. How many more of these dangerous dumps do we have to deal with nuclear waste? If you can... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66919	Thank you, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66920	Used radioactive sources and radioactive waste that have already been produced exists in the Republic of Croatia. Institutional waste is currently stored in temporary warehouses at the Institute of Medical Research and Medicine and at the Ruđer Boskovic Institute. Both warehouses are in Zagreb and are both closed. One 2005, the other 2013. The partial recovery programme, which includes separation, characterisation, processing, conditioning and packaging in lead containers, was conducted for, therefore, both of these warehouses. The establishment of the centre proposed by this law of inventory of these warehouses plans to move to a new warehouse on Cerkezovac. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66921	Mrs. Sabelak Dračevac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66922	Thank you, Vice President. The Secretary of State, therefore, is located, meaning a place that has not yet been defined but is likely to be located on a rather thorny territory. When the Krško Nuclear Power Plant was built then up to the level of the 8 Richters, these earthquakes can be tolerated by Richter. I am interested in whether the construction of the centre will be taken into account, therefore, that it is a highly thorny area and whether this building will have more security than the earthquake and, of course, the financial consequences or how much more it will cost us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66923	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66924	Dear Madam MPs, of course, that when building a warehouse like this, it is necessary to take care of the thorny characteristics of the area in which it is built. And we saw that the buildings that were built for business purposes or housing in the area that hit this biggest earthquake on, which, whose epicenter was near Petrinja, many remained intact. They were built with much smaller ones, and that's, uh... Yeah, yeah, but that's why I'm saying this is nuclear waste and it's going to work with more of course, according to regulations that regulate the storage of this kind of material. [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] And they'll be safe, they'll hold up for sure 8 degrees per Richter or what's prescribed, I don't know by heart what level of counter-resistance these buildings are, but that's not for playing like you said. So on that side, I think we can all be safe.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66925	Thank you very much. Mrs. Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66926	Thank you, Vice President. Secretary of State, Mr Katicu, I would like once again to express my reserve under such a bill and not agreeing with the inhabitants not only of the municipality of Dvor but also of the entire Sisak-Moslavina County with a decision to build a low and medium radioactive waste site there. I'm interested in the security aspect of whether you've worked as a MUP for some security assessment in terms of the delivery of that waste, which would mean whether we meet both geological and traffic conditions and other conditions so that any such waste could be delivered there and you could store for you borders that are near, the Una River, but also other words? And also if we look at the whole geopolitical situation and that this space is located along the border that is burdened with many challenges, I should once again thank the Croatian police who are truly conscious of their work but where This kind of thing can further demographically devastate that neighborhood and leave it completely empty. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66927	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66928	... So, this dump will not be used for spent nuclear fuel, but for medium and low radioactive waste that will be part of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant, but therefore we know what material is like from these institutes, hospitals and other institutions that use nuclear materials. [[Specially enabled.]] So I repeat what I have already told my colleague before you that all the building regulations will be respected in view of the insolence. It is true that you said that he is near the border is Croatia so and set up that hardly we can build a dump somewhere or some object that will be 100km from the border when the border is quite close everywhere, I don't think we would even find such a place. This area is unfortunately with few inhabitants [[Intruder Radin: Time, excuse me.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66929	Unfortunately. Mrs. Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66930	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honor, Secretary of State. The subject-law prescribed the establishment of a centre, a way of working and financing the centre's business today, but the same thing from the draft law, the centre will not provide spent nuclear fuel from the nuclear power plant in Slovenia, and the construction of a dry storage facility of spent nuclear fuel is under way in that location where the nuclear spent material should be used for the next 60 years. It is clear that only radioactive waste material that would be created in the Republic of Slovenia would be provided in the location of the centre. Is that right?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66931	That's right. I repeat once again that medium and low radioactive waste that primarily occurs in the Republic of Croatia and primarily in the medical use of open radioactive sources in nuclear medicine and in diagnostics and in therapy, but because of the use of short-lived radio isotopes after serving the previous calculated time that is known, measured in weeks or months, ceases to be radioactive waste beyond those legal limits and can be taken care of even as a communal infectious or biological waste that will not fall under these criteria, which will still have a certain degree of radioactivity he will be taken care of at the dump in Cerkezac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66932	And at the end of the day, Mr. Matul.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66933	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State. You said it wasn't to play with, yet I see that some very, very professional data you have, you just said that you don't have some, but it's true that this government is 1 January 2019. Disbanded the National Institute for Radiological and Nuclear Security two years ago. We are now discussing the Law on Radiological and Nuclear Security, and this institute could have been an independent regulatory body as we do now in Croatia. We're giving everything to the fund. Please tell me, however, how large was the blast radius in the case of haiarium in Krško was and what areas in Croatia would it cover, especially when it is known that the wind is mostly blowing from there to here from that direction?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66934	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66935	Your Honor, Mr. Representative, I'm really not going to pretend to be such an expert that I could answer these professional questions here at the pay phone. The Institute is not disbanded in the way you speak, and here is a colleague who has worked with me and worked at the Institute now at the Ministry of Interior, a representative who has talked about this topic before, although not here, I will say that in Germany the Ministry of the Interior is called the Ministry of the Interior, Homeland and Construction, so it includes seemingly such a little incompatible area by us, whether the Germans have estimated it to be okay. I also know some other cases where even cultural heritage belongs to the MUP and not in any country but in Italy, for example, so there are different solutions. The MAP is responsible for issuing authorisations for activities with radioactive sources, issues and licences for importing these radioactive sources, the good part of the people who worked at the office is currently in the MUP and is doing the same job.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66936	Time. Thank you very much. You don't have a replica anymore. And we're going to the clubs, in front of the Advocacy Club, I apologize. Is there anyone on behalf of the committee reporter to take a word? Apparently there is. Here you go. Excuse me. ... No, you're not torturing anyone. You're right. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66937	... Vice-President, distinguished secretary of state with a co-worker, co-worker and co-worker. [[The speaker is not understood because of the announcement.]] The Committee on Health and Social Policy at its 31st session held on 29 September, which referred to measures of radiological and nuclear security, enabling and applying the protection of individuals, society and the environment on adverse consequences, as well as an effective solution to the issue of the disposal of radioactive waste and spent resources and spent nuclear fuel. In their presentation, they also referred to the need to monitor the Strategy for the Management of Radiological Waste of Used Nuclear Fuel Sources as well as the importance of monitoring environmental impact assessments. After the discussion was held, the members of the committee unanimously decided to propose 10 to HS for adoption, the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Radiological and Nuclear Security Act is adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66938	Thank you very much. And now, indeed, ma'am. Andreja Maric will speak in front of the SDP Representatives' Club. Wait a minute, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66939	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Assembly, the esteemed Secretary of State with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. Here we are now discussing a proposal to amend and supplement the Radiological and Nuclear Security Act. This is already a few changes in the series since the original 2013, so it is worth mentioning that all these existing amendments and additions to the laws are actually based on the radiological and nuclear security strategy for the period 2017 to 2025, now it was 7 years ago. As this strategy has been adopted, the National Programme for the Implementation of the Strategy by 2025 with a view to 2060. I think it is very important to say that the primary objective of radiological and nuclear security is to protect people and the environment from the harmful effects of ionising radiation. This objective is aimed at both individual and collective protection of people, i.e. protecting the environment, and should be achieved in such a way as to limit the operation of the plant as little as possible or to carry out activities that can lead to an increase in the risk of ionising radiation. The work of the plant and the performance of the activity should be carried out in such a way as to meet the highest safety standards that can be achieved. In order to achieve this, the strategy tells us, we need to exercise control over the exposure of people to ionizing radiation and the release of radioactive substances into the environment, reduce the chance of something happening that would lead to the loss of control over sources of ionizing radiation, mitigate such effects of events if they happen and all the expensive things happen, we agree that this is really important for our community, or for the environment. There are several principles on which this strategy rests, worth mentioning them, we have not heard them today, it is a responsibility for security, the role of state administration, the management of security management, the justification of the facility and the activity, the optimization of protection, the restriction of the risks to individuals, the protection of current and future generations, it is very important in view of this law that brings us some changes, the prevention of extraordinary events, the preparedness and the response in the event of an extraordinary event and the protection measures to reduce the existing risks of exposure to radiation and the risk of exposure to radiation that are not under administrative supervision. Now, as the existing law tells us, therefore, the existing Law on Radiological and Nuclear Security determines measures of radiological and nuclear security, nuclear security measures, recording and surveillance of nuclear material, all for the purpose of protecting individuals, society and the environment from the adverse effects of ionising radiation and enabling the safe operation of activities with sources of ionising radiation, nuclear activities, the activities of the disposal of radioactive waste and used sources and nuclear security of ionising radiation and nuclear plants. Now, the new law prescribes the establishment of a radioactive waste disposal centre which will be a unit for financing the decommissioning and disposal of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel from Krško nuclear power plant that we were just discussing. So, in this bill, the center doesn't have its own name and last name, we all guess it'll be the Cherkevac, but here's the name and last name, so maybe there's the representatives from the ruling section who have some, some of this uncertainty about it, maybe it won't be against or will be. It's also a prescribed way to finance the centre's business, and now we're asking how much it's going to cost. In addition, according to the third revision of the Krško nuclear power plant decommissioning programme and the radioactive waste disposal programme, the dry storage facility for spent nuclear fuel should start in 2021 and will be active at least 60 years. After completing the work of Krško Nuclear Power Plant and in fact, in this bill, it is said that it will continue to be stored at the location of the power plant, and that this centre we are discussing will not be provided with spent nuclear fuel from Krško Nuclear Power Plant. The proposal also stresses that the final responsibility of the Republic of Croatia for the disposal of radioactive waste and spent fuel generated in the territory of the Republic of Croatia is laid down, which will not be prescribed by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Fund Act. The responsibility of the Republic of Croatia for the disposal of radioactive waste, spent fuel and spent resources is also prescribed in cases where the causer of this waste cannot provide funds for its disposal and are now being provided from the state budget, and then the question is raised, I do not now know what law is, but the causers who are not actually known whether we are actually going to put salt on their tails because if they are not known or if they are not known, and what with those who are not known or who may be only later known, and possibly not, therefore I say we will give them salt on their tails. In any event, this should be minimised and prevented from having any stronger controls, conducting inspections, etc. In addition, the law provides that the nuclear insurance plan is to be adopted on the basis of the threat document provided for by the project basis adopted on the basis of the threat assessment. It also says that the nuclear insurance plan is a confidential document, it is important to stick to the cybersecurity plan, which is actually spoken of by the existing law, and all of this applies together only to radioactive sources and nuclear material, so the electrical devices that produce ionizing radiation are excluded, and it is also stated that what matters to me in terms of profession, let's just say in terms of the management of Gamma Knife at the Neurosurgery Clinic, it is said that cybersecurity has been achieved, and this is very important to all of us. The criticism that I have also cited in the replica, so when you look at the compliance of EU provisions and regulations, whether these contents have been fully taken over or not, 91 of the provisions have not been taken over, so 91 will be taken over, and 14 of the contents of the provisions have been partially taken over, and the date of download 20.10. So we're late, we've also got the EU's warning, and now we have to make it right together, so I guess we'll learn to be smart not to be late for at least EU directives. It is good that these amendments to the laws provide for infringements, or penalties, are only a matter of whether everything will be monitored and controlled in time. As far as dealing with radioactive waste is concerned, it is clear that that's how we actually got on the Health Care Committee, to take care of it in two ways for now. It means returning to the manufacturer if there is a contract and care in the Republic of Croatia regardless of the quantity, and Croatia has signed agreements to take over its share of the Krško Sea since 2023. And now we're going back to that poor Cherkevac that's been talked about a lot. The project has been mentioned for years, a little earthquake may have disrupted the plans, so now we're asking. So, additional seismological evaluations have been made, is there now some definitive opinion of the profession that the project still stands, that there are no problems, do you have any alternative locations, do we have all the necessary permits now to build this centre, are they satisfied, meet all the guidelines and environmental impact studies, what is the capacity of the future radioactive waste management centre? We have already criticised the previous law of communication with the public and with the local population is not done properly. 3 million kunas are broken into a public relations company. How many benefits for the local population, how much compensation for the local self-government unit, how much money has been spent so far? That's what I asked about the past law, said the secretary of state writes on the fund's pages, and I went to the fund's website, and there's nothing united about it. How little I managed to add up, you have to analyze the zero radiological state of $3.87 million, public relations 3 million kuna, project documentation, the development of earthquake threat status 1.8 million kuna, and 4.1 million kuna, and then $11.2 million, so bottomless bag. So I hope that the state has some kind of plan, that it will do what was wrong, which is that at least as far as we've heard it, no communication has been made as it belongs to the public, to the local population, to the units of local self-government. Well, since so much money has been spent on this future we assume a center on Cherkevac, then I hope the ruling will still communicate properly. all this stuff we've listed. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66940	Thank you very much. Now it's the turn of Croatian sovereigns and Mr. Hrvoje Zekanovic, gone, losing his right. Mr. Marin Miletic will present the club representative of the Most, is not there, he loses his right. Mr. Darko Klasic will present the Club of Representatives of HSLS and Reformists, gone, lost his right. And Mrs. Renata Sabelak Dračevac, who is represented by the Social Democrats Club, is here and then we invite her to have her own exposure. Here you are on behalf of the Social Democrats. I think it's...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66941	.../The speaker was subsequently included./... we will include him, the State Secretary with an associate who was also on our board. The colleagues, the few colleagues and colleagues in the assembly, here I see that all clubs are in principle, we all expected that the debate would be united and logically it would be that this debate was united because it was so intertwined that you couldn't separate from each other. And now we find ourselves in a situation where all the wise clubs have said what they had to say in the first part, but here I have left for the second part since the Health Committee took part in this. Therefore, the law lays down the basic, establishment of a centre for the disposal of radioactive waste and as well as the establishment of units for financing, decommissioning and disposal of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel from Krško Nuclear Power Plants, and it is prescribed to finance the disposal of radioactive waste used sources and spent nuclear fuel, i.e. the method of financing the operation of the centre. It is therefore a matter of harmonising with the provisions of the Council of Europe Directive 2011 establishing a Community framework for responsible and safe management of spent fuel and radioactive waste. Based on the Law on Radiological and Nuclear Security, the Croatian Parliament was in October of '14. adopt a strategy for the management of radioactive waste and spent sources of spent nuclear fuels. The management strategy defines the basic guidelines and objectives and the management of institutional radioactive waste used sources in the RH of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel from Krško Nuclear Power Plant as well as the guidelines and targets related to the recovery of sites with natural radioactive materials. The recovery strategy is defined, defined as short-, medium- and long-term targets related to the disposal of radioactive waste, used sources of spent nuclear fuel and this natural radioactive material. Construction of the warehouse is envisaged as a temporary and return solution for low and medium radioactive waste located in Krško Nuclear Power Plant, for which the Republic of Croatia has a obligation to care. The used nuclear fuel will continue to be stored at the location of Krško nuclear power plant by 2043. After which a joint permanent solution will be sought with the Republic of Slovenia, so we have not been resolved, and Slovenia has not yet been resolved. The Fund is responsible for its work to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. HEP d.d. As the 50% owner of Krško Nuclear Power Plant, it has an obligation to pay in the fund financial resources intended for the decommissioning of the nuclear power plant. We learned in the previous debate that this is being paid and that these funds are being accumulated. In addition, HEP is also responsible for maintaining the monitoring system of ash dumps and slags produced during the operation of TE Plomin. National Institute for Radiological and Nuclear Security Implementation under the MUP 19 February 2019 as the Sector for Radiological and Nuclear Security of the MUP. In this respect, we accept the main specifics of the strategy, the development of plans and the restoration of locations together with natural radioactive materials and the transparent and active inclusion of the public during the preparation and implementation of activities arising from the strategy. I'm going to repeat, transparent and active public involvement, so that's something that is unfortunately missing. What are the problems? So Croatia has until '23. have a solution to store low and medium radioactive waste from Krško Nuclear Power Plant and institutional waste while high radioactive waste must be found another solution. Options for the management of Croatian nuclear waste is the location of Cerkezovac in the Shop Gora near the border with BiH. The population is opposed, and the hairs continue the process in silence and far from the public. Although over the years alterations are used terms, storage and disposal sites for the location of low and medium radioactive waste dispatch should be distinguished. The warehouse is temporarily 10 to 30 years and includes institutional monitoring and monitoring of the state of the environment. The dump is of a permanent nature and represents a permanent accommodation where the waste is located up to 300 years apart until natural decay. The warehouse cannot be easily converted into a dump because it is physically different objects. If Cerkezovac is formally selected for the storage of waste, field research will begin at the disposal of pardons, pardons, pardons in Shopinska gora to choose the location for disposal of waste. Part of the radioactive waste has been stored in Zagreb for years at the Institute of Medical Research and Medicine and at the Ruđer Boskovic Institute, however, the difference between storage of radioactive waste and disposal is that storage is a temporary solution, except in the case of some short-term waste when, after a certain short storage period, it can be controlled to release into the environment. Radioactive waste shall be classified depending on the time in which waste remains radioactive. Share in radioactive materials in waste and whether waste creates heat or not. In the Republic of Croatia, low and medium radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuels are needed. Exhausted nuclear fuel is delayed in a deep pool whose water serves as a cooling agent to protect from radioactive radiation. The most prominent location for the disposal of Croatian waste is Cerkezovac, located on the southern slopes of the Shop Mountain in the Municipality of Dvor. Prior to the decision on the location of the warehouse, appropriate environmental impact assessments should be carried out. According to the plan, low and medium radioactive waste was packed into Cerkezovac where it would be stored for 40 years in the long term, and would then be deposited on the Trade Mountain. The construction of such a warehouse requires the construction of a project and the construction of an adequate infrastructure with appropriate monitoring of the water, air, soil and other environmental and human status. Although it is said that there is no reason for fear in the event of any damage to the container it is possible to release radioactive materials. It is important to say that high radioactive waste takes up only 3% of total radioactive waste, but 90% of total radioactivity. What are the fears of the local population and are they justified? One of the main concerns about the construction of a warehouse or disposal facility for the disposal of radioactive waste is the possible impact on the environment and the population. For 20 years, it has been warned that the problem of low and medium radioactive waste management is trying to address it without consulting the local community's presence at a potential location and citizens are complaining about a lack of transparency and independent supervision. Local environments are to build a dump on their field of resist. [[Intruder: Time, thank you]] In order to build warehouses and dumps of nuclear waste, we need a clear a more transparent relationship with local self-government and, if necessary, a referendum [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Intruder: Thank you, once again and notice, thank you.... [[Thank you, you've made yourself clear, thank you very much. Citizens doubt the motives of the ruling.../]] Thank you. a
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66942	Please. Mr. Mladen Karlic will speak in front of HDZ representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66943	Thank you, Vice President, dear Secretary of State with an associate, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Now here are two laws that are very similar to those that are intertwined, and this is the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Radiological and Nuclear Security Act. This law prescribes the definition of a centre for the disposal of radioactive waste, the definition of exposed workers, the compliance with the Council Directive of 2011 and 2013, the ultimate responsibility of the Republic of Croatia, and the Republic of Croatia has an obligation to provide technologically secure, environmentally acceptable, organisationally effective treatment of institutional radiological waste, which is health waste, from industry, from science, from the military industry, and to resuscitate locations where natural radioactive materials are located. It also has an obligation to physically take over and effectively dispose of half of the radioactive waste from spent nuclear fuel stored at Krško Nuclear Power Plant. There have been discussions here about the past point which is partly related to this centre, related to the centre and of course the citizens of the Court of the Union where it is, but if we did do a survey now of all 550 JLS I am convinced and that we tell them whether you want nuclear waste in your backyard, of course you would all be against, that no one would accept this, as well as the waste management centre, the municipal waste nobody wants in their backyard, everyone wants to be in a foreign municipality and county, and of course in a foreign country if others would accept it, however, it's very difficult. And that is why it is important, through this debate, that in some way we show these citizens where it should be built that there are some advantages, not only faults, not only something bad and harmful, but I am convinced that this, building such a centre in the Court of the Union, would be their opportunity to develop infrastructure, objects, employment, the arrival of guests, workers, I don't know, institutions, so it doesn't have to be all negative, and since this strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia, of course, then the Croatian government has to decide what space it would be, where it would be, and at this point maybe this is the place where the least citizens, where it's the least actually jeopardizing here are, and under quotes, of course, that everything will be made in one technological, modern, environmentally acceptable way, that there is no fear, or that this fear is lessening as much as possible. The existing situation in the Republic of Croatia has led to the need to establish a radioactive waste disposal centre to unite all plants in one location for the purpose of the disposal of radioactive waste and spent sources and spent nuclear fuel. The waste management centre is established to systematically organise low and medium radioactive waste management. The centre plans to establish a central warehouse of radioactive waste and used sources from the Republic of Croatia, and long-term storage for low and medium radioactive waste from Krško Nuclear Power Plant. Waste disposal involves all administrative and operational procedures that securely isolate radioactive waste from the human environment. The method of handling will depend on the type of radioactive waste generated, its quantity and activity. The radioactive waste management system should include the collection and classification of waste, pre-processing, processing, and appropriate conditioning in a form suitable for handling, transport, storage and final disposal for that intended permanent disposal. Radioactive waste shall be classified depending on the content of the radionuclide and the time of its semi-degradation, and the activity. In Croatia, radioactive waste is classified in 4 classes. The first is excluded and fired radioactive waste, the second is low radioactive waste, short-circuit waste, the third is low and medium radioactive waste that has subclasses, short-circuit and long-lived and fourth high radioactive waste. Low radioactive waste and medium radioactive waste, since borders are not clearly defined, are often classified together, and are jointly delayed. Low and medium radioactive waste occurs in a gas, solid and liquid state, while high radioactive waste produced by the processing of spent nuclear fuel is mostly in the current aggregate state, fluid contaminated by radionuclides. The storage of liquid radioactive waste is therefore not permitted because it is thus converted into a form suitable for storage and disposal and is reduced to volume. That's what we talked about in the first and first points. That is exactly what matters is that this waste would go somewhere else, so not immediately in Croatia, but first it must be converted into a suitable form, so it must be compromised, its radioactivity must be reduced, turned into a rigid form, and then it can only go into special containers, or as it has already been said by concrete and so this one to storage. Low and medium radioactive waste has the highest volume and lowest activity while high radioactive waste is the smallest in size, but therefore it has the largest activity. Treatment with all types of radioactive waste is strictly regulated by national and European regulations and international conventions. In order to systematically organise the disposal of such waste by means of a Strategy for the Management of Radioactive Waste, Used Sources and Exhausted Fuel and the Law on Radiological and Nuclear Safety in the Republic of Croatia, a Centre for the Management of Radioactive Waste will be established. The HDZ Club will support this proposal to amend and supplement the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66944	Thank you, too. Now it's Mr. William Matula, who will represent the views of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66945	Thank you. Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State with an associate. Yeah, I also share this opinion that we didn't need this debate right now, that these two laws were significantly permeated, and I haven't actually heard anything important new here, except that I've heard from my colleagues in HDZ now that no municipalities, that no one would just be at the Court of Unit but no one would accept. And if that's the awareness of why you've decided on such a strategy that he's now looking for and needs that kind of money for the PR to do it later, and now it's worth explaining to people, and you should say that in one statement the fund manager asks him about Cherkezovac and this cashier ex, if it's possible to do it, he says and asks him about plan B, he says he doesn't have a plan B. So he knows something that or you all know, so the Secretary of State and all or you don't know it, but he knows, so there's no alternative it's going to be there at any cost. In addition, and why might you give them that money that makes a big nuclear lobby pay for it, especially with a story about the new wing of Krško, and here's nothing I'll come back. You have said about the institution, and I have spoken about it and one and the other laws are called for or are taken over in Croatian legislation Council Directive 2011/70/Euratom of 19 July 2011, but only a superficial view of this directive and its Articles 6 and 7 clearly states that full implementation of the Directive cannot occur because Council Directive 201/70/Euratom clearly provides for the establishment of an independent regulatory body. And you're really trying to convince me now that inside the M.O.P., the institution that in the meantime created it's a completely independent, independent regulatory body? That's what you don't believe. And the scientific institution, the National Institute, can't be because no, because I guess it costs too much or maybe it is, maybe it's too independent because these scientists, if they're real scientists, they sometimes don't understand the political very simple impulses that every normal person should understand because it's the nature of things. No, it's not the nature of things because if it were called to the nature of things democracy wouldn't be from old Greece to here, is it, or your famous is known. You don't know, you don't know. In ancient Greece, they started talking, and they don't know, so let's see why. And now we don't have this independent regulatory body that would function separately from any other body and from organisations dealing with the advertising and exploitation of nuclear energy and radioactive material, including the production of electricity and use of radioisotopes, the use of spent fuel by radioactive waste to ensure effective independence from any inappropriate influence not its regulatory function. But a similar argument was also made by associations in Slovenia who managed to find out in the court that the court said there was no extension of the work of Krško which is here for you finished. You and that you know that it is settled, as Croatia has no influence on the courts, but it seems that you will somehow get it in Slovenia because there associations have said very clearly that it is typical that all previous environmental impact research has paid Krško himself and in this way it has actually controlled itself and the court has finally said that, you have the right. I don't think a man can control himself if he's completely interested in doing what he's doing for another 20 years. And they got that verdict, and now we're going to see what they're really going to say is this strategic independent environmental impact study. He says, the claim that these changes are consistent with the directive is not true or true because one of the changes is that the Centre for the Management of Radioactive Waste becomes a unit of the fund. And now watch out, now the fund is taking control and the future dump because there's not some independent regulator that would also be on the side of the parlano, of course he needs to be managed. And as the Supervisory Board should have all the data, but it doesn't manage, it doesn't manage, but it has to have all the data. It would be logical, and this directive says very clearly, and you're not really any of it, but you're pushing some thing again, but still completely typical of the way you normally work, you're used to it, and especially this, new HDZ that has nothing to do with the old one, not by any chance. And these are your new decisions, and on this, whoever's going to write this on Europe, on the European Commission or on their courts, I think it's going to fall normally. It's clear to you that it's going to fall. Well, I think I've said everything and there's no need to take any more time, it's all more than clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66946	Thank you very much. We're moving on to individual debates, the first Mrs. Mariana Petrir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66947	Thank you, Vice President. State secretaries with co-workers, MPs and MPs, I would like to express once again a large reserve in the proposal that in Sisak-Moslavina County, the municipality of Dvor at the border with BiH is building a centre for the disposal of radioactive waste because it seems to me that making this decision is actually building a house from the roof, and we are all somehow aware that the house should always be built from the ground up. So I would like to appeal again that the current truly good relations Croatia has with Slovenia, which are significantly improved and which allow us to have a continuous dialogue to be used in one positive way to re-evaluate this topic once again and to communicate in order to try to find a solution that would satisfy not only the citizens of Sisak-Moslavina County but also the whole of Croatia, because I think some colleagues with the first said that no one in Croatia would want such a dump. I'm not saying this because I'm coming, just because I'm from Sisak-Moslavina County, but because this whole situation has one of its long-standing genes. I will remind you that I warned you in 2002 after an agreement was signed between Croatia and Slovenia that it is not good to give up all claims because we know it is '98. Slovenia's electricity industry de facto ruled out HEP and did not receive electricity from Krškog where we co-owners 50% and that disowning all of these claims and taking over the obligation to take care of radioactive waste is not a good contract. So, these warnings never went against dialogue or any kind of prejudice to good neighbourly relations, but it was to encourage the then government to negotiate better and better protect our interests. Today we have such an agreement as we have, the assembly then confirmed it with a large majority of votes, I did not vote for such an agreement because I thought it was not good for Croatia. After all these activities, what could have been done was done locally. From the county spatial plan we deleted that location and the municipality of Dvor after a while, after they first accepted it, it must be said and put it into its own spatial plan although after citizens responded they deleted it from their spatial plan and now we have a situation for the local population to express a really big disagreement with such a single proposal. When I was a Europarliamentary with the Slovenian Europarliamentary, I organised a public dialogue with the local population there to hear their opinion, but to get an opportunity to hear from Slovenia whether they are ready for some common solutions. And then the locals once again expressed their view that even under such difficult conditions they live, that if such a dump is made there it would mean a further depopulation of that space. On the other hand, Mr. Slovenian Europarliamentary. Božovic made it clear, who is the former mayor of Krško and is well aware of the situation, said the Slovenian side is ready for dialogue on finding common solutions. And that's why now I'm going back to what I did with the last debate somehow started calling for that dialogue because I think there's room for dialogue. I also understand the cash amounts that are being talked about here, even though I would like to get them on paper as MPs, so that we can compare that, because the money amounts that were then mentioned in that public forum were still something different. It all went hand in hand that joint care would be cheaper than any country would do it for itself. If the European Directive allows us such an approach, I am in favour of taking advantage of such an approach. So I would eventually call for strategic thinking so that we really wouldn't be affected by this one space that has been affected by various wars and hardships, and a recent earthquake has now been hit by another trouble that the inhabitants of the region will not be able to cope with. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66948	Thank you, you have two replicas. The first replica of Mrs. Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66949	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Petyr, here we are during the last point and now in this you have clearly convinced us that you are not for the waste disposal center to be built in the Republic of Croatia. You'll probably show it at the vote on Friday, I'm not provoking it, I guess. On the one hand, we have opposition from the local population, on the other hand we have opposition from the BiH parliament as much as I read it, even announcing the internationalisation of the whole case. On the other hand, you say there is an open space with Slovenians, so here is a message and a secretary of state, either to speak to us now or to come to us by the next reading to come up with some kind of strategy of new talks with Slovenia to see if then there is really room for all that waste to be delayed in Slovenia on the basis of what you suggest because it turns out we won't have any solutions, right? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66950	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66951	Thank you, fellow Maric on the line. That you have well noticed that our neighbours from BiH complain about such a decision by Croatia. According to the Espo Convention, which is in fact a convention on cross-border environmental impact assessment, they want to be involved in these processes and decision-making, and that is, of course, their right because we are both signatories to the Convention. So I think the same thing is reasonable to listen to what they have to say, and certainly here I will once again take advantage of the opportunity to call for dialogue with Slovenia because I think the atmosphere is now very, very good that this dialogue can experience understanding of both sides and perhaps obtain some result.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66952	Thank you. Another replica, sir. Apostasy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66953	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Petyr, let's just confirm and define. I have sufficient capacity in Slovenia, first question. Secondly, whether to build these annexes or to call something similar that, if the answer to the first question is negative. And third no less important, you've made a great point to a fellow colleague named Karlic who left, so five times he was mayor of Vinkovac and he as one of the 555 leaders of the local self-government unit says no one wants him to. What do you say we move that to Vinkovci?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66954	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66955	Thank you, colleague. I'll stay on the line. Well, I've made my point. I don't think that a dump should be built in Croatia. I made these arguments, and I suggested how I think it would be good to solve this situation. So, what I don't want to myself, and I don't want to do it to others, it's a golden rule, but I repeat again, it's not my opposition or the reserve to this kind of resolution just about where I was born, where I live, where I know people, but because I really think there are other, more practical and better solutions. According to my knowledge, I think the location is called the Verbin where these two waste disposal tapes were built and where it's according to the information given to me by mr. Božovic, who is today a European Parliamentarian from Slovenia and former Mayor of Krškoga, Slovenia is ready in fact To take care of that part of ours [[Intruder: Thank you.]] It's out. [[Intruder: Thank you, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66956	Thank you very much. It is now up to Mrs Anita Pocrnic Radosevic, also an individual debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66957	Thank you, Vice President. The Honorable State Secretary with an associate, respected colleagues and colleagues, the Law on Radiological Nuclear Safety in question, aims to enable it to provide adequate protection of individuals, society and the environment against the adverse effects of ionising radiation and to enable the safe operation of activities with these sources. Then carrying out nuclear activities of the disposal of radioactive waste and used sources. But I'll talk more about the second part of the amendment and the addition of the law relating to nuclear security. The law stipulates that the nuclear insurance plan is to be adopted on the basis of the document of the threat provided for by the project basis, which is to be adopted on the basis of the threat assessment. It is also foreseen that the nuclear insurance plan is a confidential document and that it contains a cybersecurity plan. Since the law stipulates that the implementation of nuclear security concerns all sources of ionising radiation, it is proposed that the proposed law on changes and additions to the Radiological and Nuclear Security Act amends Article 66 of the Law in such a way that nuclear insurance applies only to radioactive sources and nuclear material. This excludes electrical devices that produce ionising radiation that has nothing to do with nuclear security measures. Furthermore, since the risk associated with activities with radioactive sources is much less than the risk of carrying out nuclear activities in nuclear plants, it is proposed that only in the event of nuclear activities and the transport of nuclear materials used in nuclear installations should the obligation to develop a nuclear insurance plan be maintained on the basis of a document threat provided for by a project basis. Unlike cybersecurity nuclear plants, for example. devices with closed radioactive sources used for radio therapy such as gamma knife has been achieved by the informational separation of the device and its control console from the rest of the information network of the institution. Also in the case of a panoramic irradiation device, the same device is not connected to either internal or external networks, which means there is no possibility of hacker attacks. There is also a third group of closed radioactive sources. These are also the sources used in industrial radiography when working on rigs. Also, in the case of other closed radioactive sources which are in use in the Republic of Croatia, which are used for example. In industrial processes, nuclear medicine and in scientific research cybersecurity is also not applicable. I believe that the amendments to the laws in question in both part 1 and Part 2 will increase the effectiveness of the regulatory body and reduce administrative burden, and in order to increase national nuclear security. And if we need to talk about national nuclear security talking, the fact that it's 1,000km away from the RH plant is 40 nuclear power plants. At the locations of these nuclear power plants are located 89 energy reactors that vary by strength, life age and technology. We often heard about nuclear accidents most of us here and survived in some way. Let us remember Chernobyl 1986, Fukushima in 2011 which belong to the seventh largest category of hawari, and they are exactly, these are the hawari which represent the release of radiation with severe consequences for humans and nature. and the greatest danger is precisely the accidents on energy reactors because there is a large amount of radioactive material being released, and these can be significant and reflected in a wide range of areas, and the accident may also occur as a result of failures or human errors, as a result of some elemental accidents, meteorological conditions or terrorist attacks. And it is therefore important to have good legislation, but certainly also services that can respond in a timely manner to a threat that could result in a threat to nuclear security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66958	Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Fifth First Replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66959	Thank you, Vice President. My fellow MPs, you spoke of the importance of seeing national nuclear security, and I agree with you here. And Croatia has mechanisms in its hands, above all... Conventions, but other interstate contracts where we can veto the construction of new blocks, existing nuclear power plants or possibly some new nuclear power plants, and thus actually control what's going on in our nearby neighborhood. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] But given this agreement that was recently signed, it seems to me that somehow we're moving in the other direction and I'm interested in your thinking whether maybe we should turn to more of our own sources that we have and check how much energy there is in our own backyard, put into operation everything that is available to us, and then resort to these new directions.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66960	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66961	Thank you, colleague Petyr. As far as various energy sources are concerned, I think that we are a country that has the benefits of both wind power plants and hydroelectric power plants and these renewable energy sources, and it is certainly something to persist on and the more we use them, the more we know that electricity needs are getting bigger and bigger, but here, unfortunately, sometimes we can't influence some things. What I've said within 1,000 miles of us is 40 nuclear power plants, and that's why we have to be prepared and work on our national nuclear security, because here on our territory we don't have any nuclear power plants, but it doesn't mean that we can't get hit by the car, because the consequences are far-reaching, we know what happened with Chernobyl and all that today we probably feel the consequences.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66962	Thank you. The second replica, Mr. Ostojic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66963	Dear fellow Minister Pocrnic Radošević, you have graduated from the Faculty in Opatija, you are probably engaged in tourism if... No, but you're done, they taught you something, you know when you go, and we live, every fifth kuna is from tourism, right, so put yourself in the position of those who taught you and those you teach, very, but tourism is also important in Banovina, in Sisak-Moslavina County. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] Why don't we put that in Lika, say, dump, dump in Lika? Ha, she's also saddened by demographic desolation, war devastation, etc. Don't be hypocritical... suggest we go to Lika, so you must have an obligation to the profession. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] There's military terminology, you heard fellow Petyr, me, etc., you say, it's not military, it's not menstrual cartridges, it's radioactive cartridges, no lavender scent, no rose. So it is important to put these cartridges in a safe place, but for God's sake not in Croatia, support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66964	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66965	Now you're out of the country and out of the country. I have to admit that here I have never met this before, nor have I followed that topic, so now I've heard for the first time that the center should be built right in the municipality of Dvor and I don't know how it came to be, that it's done there. I believe she'll be here with the help of Mrs. Devereaux. Petir and all the other representatives and local communities that you might try to make some public debates and a little referendum on that municipality or something like that that could be done because if people really don't want it then that's not the way. And as for the accommodations in Lika, I don't know, nobody even offered. We're trying to do a hydropower plant that's been there for 70 years, so we'll see what happens to it in due course.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66966	And at the end of the line, Mr. Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66967	Dear fellow Members, you have rightly mentioned Chernobyl and Fukushima and this vast number of nuclear power plants in the environment and around the world. But this whole debate that was going through, and that the thesis of Krškoga leaves out one fact, that we have this waste and that power plant right here near Zagreb, in our neighborhood, and that all the waste that this waste here is about is about to be placed there somewhere in Banovina is essentially this waste here. But from this document, it clearly states, I guess many have not read that the waste that comes from Krško Nuclear Power Plant will be stored at the very location of the power plant. The fact is that technology is what it is, that there are huge amounts of both medical and all the other radioactive waste that needs to be taken care of in some way and the simple thing is that we have to pass this law and make sure that it is taken care of. In the safest way. [[Intruder: Thank you, Mr. Klaric]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66968	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66969	Thank you, colleague Klaric. It's exactly what you mentioned about the center and the accommodation of nuclear waste that I asked the promoter in the replica because I was wondering the same thing, so now there's no waste from Krško Nuclear Power Plant that's not going to be brought to that center in the municipality of Dvor, and it really isn't. As far as I understand the bill, there will be radioactive waste of spent fuel created in the territory of the Republic of Croatia and there is no nuclear waste in a way that comes from the nuclear power plant and I believe that it should make people aware that this nuclear waste from Krško nuclear power plant will not be stored on Croatian territory because I think that HEP that participates in, which receives energy from the Krško Nuclear Power Plant, is required to finance the disposal of this waste that is being done in Slovenia right now and I think that this year should have taken place. put into function for dry storage spent nuclear fuel. [[Intruder Radin: Time, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66970	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. Mr. Ostojić is now up to debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66971	Mr. Vice President. Respect for the Secretary of State, you weren't a moment ago, but I'll brief you on that. You've taken over the state, the MUP, in 2019 you've taken over the State Department for nuclear radiological diagnostics, shut it down, legal identity doesn't exist, you've taken us a covid, the police department is run by a police minister, nuclear medicine is run by a police minister. Give it to the others or we'll become a police state, give it some. You've been 20 years, we know each other, you've been... you seem to me in Racan's government either you're not here or somewhere. You know, give some of the others to raise a little Croatia, not just discipline, police and such. As you manage the risks of disaster, which is the task of civil protection that is beneath you, we have seen in the covid crisis. The mask or the medicine, where the Maja Grba is, they don't need masks, and now Klaric is holding the mask, and he's sitting in line from Maja Grba. No one should wear masks, right, and now the vice president has just warned me that I didn't put on a mask, so I need to be careful. ... Yeah. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You better not manage the risks the way you manage, you better not manage the reconstruction in Zagreb with Tomasevic from Momo and Klisovic from the SDP. We can prepare for it for 5.6, 10 years, and in the end, none of it, none of it. The waste disposal of colleagues Matula take a walk in Zagreb, come down, look at the praise of God there is no radioactive but there is silence. So the location of the Cherkevac nobody wants, but you're... HDZ's open colleague Karlic has every honour, five times become mayor of Vinkovci, and our colleague from Like is open to see what Karlic will say now from Bakra, it would be good to put in Bakr somewhere. But we're not going to Bakra. We're going to Banovina. Let's go to Bakar, copper is the Bronze Age, prehistory, you know when it was the Bronze Age, you probably know if you remember. Put it with you, then organise a local referendum and fight. At least don't speak at least that much to the citizens of Croatia to your electoral base, the second electoral base. I will repeat the countries they have signed, please state secretaries, Finland, France one and the other main lobbyists manufacturers Simens Sory which I mention the company, the producers of key nuclear energy producers, there are lobbyists from HDZ who went from FER and then Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Croatia, Hungary, Poland, Slovakia, Slovenia and Romania, no Mediterranean country, no country in Central Europe, no country means Denmark, the countries of Benelux there are no signers, Austria etc. They have made their own, but they are aware that everything has its own life cycle and the cycle of the parliamentary mandate is, and that they must finally return to their place as well as their colleague in Banovina and tell people I did everything, but some of them there HDZ's or some others did it when they didn't want to go to Bakar or in Lika. And I'm glad that in the end we came to the idea of the Social Democrats, great, we want to be Croatia because we live off tourism, without, without a nuclear power plant, we want to be a state without a nuclear waste dump, we want to be green, sustainable Croatia, we want green sustainable tourism, and we want a local referendum that's it. Next, we've done everything, just vote for it if there's no wool, vote for it to be a local referendum, all of you who have spoken from HDZ in recent times. Therefore, local environments resist, that is the conclusion, we can make a local referendum, it is a proposal of the Social Democrats, unfortunately not of other parties, and thus we will solve the crisis. Let's get into these NGOs, that's what I was talking about, get into the media. I don't mind those... two media if it goes to lie artis, why do I care more about the education of colleague Maric. If the media is going to educate people, say what it is about it, it's something that's simply... if it doesn't go towards the mosque, I mean, of course, the HDZ center.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66972	No, don't stay, stay if you want to respond to the replicas you have to stay. First Mrs. Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66973	Thank you very much. Dear colleague. We're medics, so we're always looking at it a little bit wider and thinking more widely. After today's debate, I can actually say that we've heard a lot and even conflicting views here, and I agree, of course, that we're actually on the same line and that we should ask the local population, so if the local referendum says yes, it can, if it says no, it can't. That's the first thing. The second thing, here's counterpart Klasic is a first-rate radiologist and he tried to explain from his position that it's low radioactive waste and medium, not high, so there's a second point of view. The third point you have the question of the profession that one says that here I quote that “there will be no danger of any layoffs in the environment, ” on the other hand you have NGOs who resist it. So, what would you as a teacher advise? It means whether to turn to what a colleague Petir says according to Slovenia or where would you place this radioactive waste? [[Intruder Radin: Time, thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66974	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66975	You just listened to Mayor Bakra. I beg you not to give him He's a nice gentleman, he's a nice, very nice gentleman. [[Intruder Radin: Mr. Ostojić please respond to Mrs.]] I tell him he's nice, look into the word, rarely nice. [[Intruder Radin: Answer....]] So this is how colleagues... Up to 20 years ago, the government, the academy, private entrepreneurs, ten years ago they joined the media, made a quadruple, and 10-7 years ago came the fifth part of what is called NGOs. Then it came from these NGOs.../incomprehensible/... in Spain, similar situations in Greece or We can in Croatia. And those fifth segments, NGOs are key and important to us regardless of what some of them decided to be political parties. Which is not fair because you're fighting for good, for the good of the state. So that's how, NGOs, activists, yes, green energy yes, local referendum yes and that's it, but not the way you want it to be. We want to, but not in my backyard. Now our yard is Croatia, our yard is Croatia and for it we have to fight and I am rich in '91. went to war even though it was falling And it was snow, and those who were afraid of rain and snow did not leave. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66976	Mrs. Petyr, please, please, Mrs. Petyr has another replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66977	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague Stojić here is this debate that has been going on for several hours now, and it's really emotional for all of us, so I hope we don't get mad at each other after this debate, but there are some things that have to be clarified. Of course, we who are discussing this topic understand the difference between highly radioactive waste, spent fuel, low and medium radioactive waste, and that material that occurs in medical research, radiological radiation, for example, thunders that are being removed, etc. So, what I'm interested in is that in the debate on the previous point, it was said that it's dangerous that these about 50 meters of cubic this low and medium radioactive waste that occurs in medicine and research is located on Ruđer Boskovic, but that it wouldn't be dangerous to settle on Bane. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Now just tell me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66978	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66979	Paradox, you answered, paradox, of course it's dangerous, it's all radiating. So, it's clear if you know anything at least in history about the growths that need water, so it's water radiation, but it doesn't radiate in the way it radiates nuclear energy, not.../incomprehensible/... so I'm working on the Rebra, I'm the head of the clinic, it's nuclear medicine, it's called nuclear medicine, it's a huge clinic. That's where we go around them, for a reason we go around. When I go on the phone, my phone stops, so there's probably a reason why it stops because it's radiating, because it interferes, and neither does the CIA nor the FBI, but there's life, colleagues. The first, second, third industrial revolution try to remember what water was, coal, electricity, our Tesla fourth industrial revolution, we live it, the fifth we start living it, but it's not nuclear energy, it's something else. Industrial revolutions were previously created on the basis of natural resources, and now based on the knowledge, innovation and intelligence of people around the world, scientists, not your lobbyists who escaped. He's talking about nuclear energy innovation, it's a generic, and it's a bad generic. Bad. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66980	Thank you, no more replicas, and now we're going to the finals, in closing words, the first Mr. Hrvoje Šimić is in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66981	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with an associate, co-workers and colleagues, so here's not so late an hour but it's a long day and the time has come for final speeches. Today, here is the debate one of the latest discussions on the subject of the Amendments and Supplements Act on Radiological and Nuclear Security, in fact another adjustment of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia to, with EU legislation. As stated by the Radiological and Nuclear Security Act, measures of radiological and nuclear security, nuclear security measures, nuclear surveillance of nuclear material and other measures of non-proliferation of nuclear weapons in carrying out activities with ionising radiation sources, nuclear activities and activities of the disposal of radioactive waste and used sources have been recorded, all in order to enable the adequate protection of individuals, society and the environment in the present and future from the adverse effects of ionising radiation and to enable the safe operation of activities with sources of ionising radiation, nuclear activities, the activities of the disposal of radioactive waste and used sources of nuclear and nuclear ionising sources and nuclear plants. The main issues to be resolved and to be addressed and regulated by this law are harmonisation with the provisions of the Fund Act and the proposed Act amending the Fund Act. It is also a matter of harmonisation with the provisions of the Council Directives or of the opinion of the European Commission. The law will also regulate the application of a step-up approach in regulatory control which is proportionate to the size and likelihood of exposure to ionising radiation, certain activity and the proportionate effect that regulatory control may have on reducing such exposure or improving radiological and nuclear safety, and represent a significant contribution to improving the effectiveness of the work of the regulatory authority, and significantly reduces the administrative burden on all authorisation holders. The consequences resulting from the adoption of this law will, in fact, be predicted that the establishment of a centre only in relation to those activities provided for in the National Programme of the Strategy for the Management of Radioactive Waste, Used Sources, Used Nuclear Fuel and the agreement reached with the Republic of Slovenia only for the disposal of radioactive waste and used sources, not spent nuclear fuel compared to Krško Nuclear Power Plant. As we have heard of the implementation of this law, it was not necessary to provide additional resources in the state budget. The consultation with the interested public was also conducted without comment and, of course, here I can finally say that the HDZ Representatives Club will accept such a proposal as the Proposer has put in place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66982	Thank you, too. Mrs. Andreja Maric will speak in front of the SDP final. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66983	Thank you very much. Here we have already learned that we need to comply with the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with EU legislation, we have seen that in some things we are late, so this will probably all be voted on Friday. We are now forced to establish a radioactive waste management centre, we are prescribed to finance the disposal of radioactive waste, we are interested in how much this will cost, the final responsibility of the Republic of Croatia for the disposal of radioactive waste is also prescribed. And those questions we're definitely looking for are the following, on the one hand, not to be such a contradiction in the different data that we're coming to, so here's how I put it in the replica, on the one hand you have a colleague from the profession who says it's all low radioactive waste, medium radioactive, etc. There are no problems, on the other hand you have the professions of NGOs that there will still be certain consequences on the local environment and beyond. Then there was an earthquake and then our authorities said that at this location Cerkezovac would continue as planned that the earthquakes that occurred did not change these plans to go further with the National Programme for the Management of Radioactive Waste, and then again we read that in the BiH Parliament and their profession also to rebel, that there should be revision of the existing projections of geosismic activity both from the Croatian and Bosnian Herzegovician sides of the border, and then the profession says that they need additional analyses in the coming year or two after all these recent recent events that have occurred, and then you have a recent long-term leader of the green action energy programme that says that this location on cherkazovac is not so much ecologically stupid as "politically possible" to quote that Slovenians their half of radioactive waste wish to bury near the waterbian Sava, and that it is actually not so good on the ecological side, that in fact, no one wants to do so much of the local wasteiculatives in the whole of BiH. And it's also open here, and here's my colleague Petir has repeatedly said, the question of co-operation with Slovenia or re-conversation with them, I repeat those questions that I said and in the first show on behalf of the club, whether for this Cherkezovac, if the government decides then you don't want to help yourself, whether we have definitely all the permits, whether the Environmental Impact Study is complete done, whether this earthquake activity is defined, what the profession says, whether you have alternative locations means if you go to a local referendum so that the local population refuses it, what will you do, how much the capacity of this future centre for the supply of radioactive waste, how much benefits will be for the local population wherever you decide to be, how much the site is the unit of local self-government. Also when I was preparing myself, then I find that there are three barriers to security that are some kind of obstacle to this radioactive release to occur in the environment, so again you have some kind of opinion of the profession, and on the other hand you have a different view of the complete data forest. And finally what I'm asking you on behalf of the club to do next time, that we have definitely an analysis of how much money has been spent so far for the Cherkezovac project itself, or for some future dumps that we still have some bone benefit study. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66984	Thank you. And the last Mr. Rajko Ostojic to represent the final views of the Social Democrats Club and Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66985	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You said that nicely to the Social Democrats' final views if I may add, and I see that three colleagues from HDZ have joined us, they will vote for the local referendum whether, they will stop there and say we will not go like we said today on October 27th or forget about it until the day after tomorrow. It's a terrible energy for us, it's a strategic goal, we have a country we've fought for, we have a beautiful country, we have great people who unfortunately leave, but they're coming back here to be fair, but they're coming back we just have to fight for energy, self-sufficient energy. And that's what we have, and that's what I'm sorry that this team is dealing with, not the economy and sustainable development. Go to the Benelux countries, Germany look at these vertro power plants, look at the high seas, look at not only the solar power plants of the ok, act on biodiversity, act on maybe the rose winds, but their potential is incomparable to the potential of something that's pro-plolent and which is exclusively foreordain France and part of Finland, and we join it. We've been working on the RNA 20-30 National Development Strategy 20-30, so you haven't forgotten it? Sustainable Croatia, safe Croatia, green growth, green Croatia, nuclear is not green, you don't die with fusion and you don't green it. This RNA says very clearly, we want Croatia free of any nuclear sources I would add, of course, it does not say, but including landfills and storages and something that would really ask us to vote if we vote on Friday, let us finally allow the grace of the 21st century provided by the Internet, and it says that everything is available, a little more secrets,... A little secret. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] My colleagues from the MUP know best, and the most important thing is when information is kept in the drawer, for hundreds of years, as soon as it's taken out of the drawer, it's worth nothing when it's become public. Thank God we have portals, we have Internets, unfortunately we have 5 to 10% of people who react at least in my opinion inadequately, and that's anti-vaxers in the covid crisis, which is inadequate, but that's it. It's just a cross section, it's Gauss's curve. But those who want good for their country, those who want good for their end, and our end is only one, that is Croatia, it is neither Bakar, Vinkovci, or Sisak-Moslavina County, or PGZ, or the City of Zagreb, Croatia is our home. Let's make it nicer, let's do it the way we wrote it in NRS 20, 30. At the very end of the case, HDZ played it maestroically, I said it a few times, it was a referendum, the vice president of the assembly knows, you know, and you, when the NRS was working, then it was the question that was the safest, most beautiful, most confident, then tens of thousands of Croats voted and the word that jumped out was safety, what it said on cars, and then, of course, HDZ put it in their "Safe Croatia", you got elections, if you're a HDZ member, I don't know that if you're not, I mean, like, a colleague, every honor, but stick to that word. With this it becomes one part of Croatia insecure. You can turn him on the south side and up, so he can look at BiH, but then she's insecure and some people live there. And if there is, and there is always an alternative, which is to make a dialogue with Slovenians, some others, and let's try to do it where there are conditions, and 100 million things, the kuna will already be found. I'm a doctor and I've learned this a long time ago when I was in America at their academy for a year a sentence of a smart man, she says about this kind of problem that can be solved with money is not a problem, finished quote, so I'm going to repeat it and end the problem that can be solved with money is not a problem. This one can get rid of, send it... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-27-0.u66986	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote, I remind you, it's about first reading, we'll vote when the conditions come to pass. We continue tomorrow at 9.30 with also a very important law, the final bill on amendments and the addition of the minimum wage law is in the second reading. It's a nice and good night. The session was interrupted at 21.04 p.m.
