ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u42811	The next Club of Representatives will be the Homeland Movement on behalf of which the respected representative Ante Prkacin will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u42812	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Selak Rasudiæ is gone, and I wanted to look back on her as opposed to bad co-operation with the president and the chairman of the Croatian Parliament, I am working well with you, and I must thank you, though I have changed the free speech scheme. I wanted to continue what I was talking about yesterday, but first I must commend the president of the assembly because on April 7th I asked a question about a contract between the Croatian government and the Serbian Orthodox Church, since the prime minister did not reply to me here within a month a letter from the president of the assembly warning the prime minister to answer that question as quickly as possible, but I will help and use the prime minister. I'll make one short memo, one half card, legal aspect of the contract, and the whole card is the historical aspect of the contract. As far as this legal aspect is concerned, he should only be looked at, wrinkled and thrown into the basket because on the Croatian side of the contract signed at the highest level, the greatest legality and legitimacy and the highest dignity signed by the Prime Minister, and signed on the Serbian side by the non-existent president of the imaginary Episcopal Council of the illegal Serbian Orthodox Church in Croatia, which is easy to see from two documents. So from the religious community records and from the Serbian Orthodox Church Constitution from Serbia, we don't have one in Croatia. And as for the historical aspect, it's going to look something like this. I will not go to century 7, but in 13, 1217 or 1219 when for the first time the Serbian state is left alone and for two years the Serbian Orthodox Church, although there is already one illogical inversion and then until the end, by giving a special accent to a date that I will now mention, which is 17.6.1920 when the first time the Serbian Orthodox Church appears in Croatia. So this contract, not the contract, that act that Alexander Karadjordjevic did is past the Orthodox canon and any rule of Orthodoxy, but it's the only thing he can get hold of. What do I mean by that? I mean that no historical continuity of the Serbian Orthodox Church with Croatia has any right to Croatian property, such as no right to property of the Orthodox Church in Montenegro. And as for the topic I started last time, I stopped, so I resented my colleagues from the platform we can! on, let me be a little bit lighter, on one great inaccuracies about antifascism. I received several calls and commendations from Croatian anti-fascists. Surprised by the right-wing man to speak positively of Croatian antifascism and to mention it at all. Well, guys, I'm a normal man in a normal party. If there were Croatian anti-fascists, there is no doubt. I also mentioned them to Mark Oreshkovic, I mentioned Andrew Hebrang, I mentioned General Shibla. And you know how the Shible ended and how Marko Oreshkovic ended up? Or not Shible, how did Hebrang end up, how did Marko Oreshkovic end up? So, after the Serbs raised their uprising against no fascism but against the Croatian state and the Croatian people, they went to reprove them, which is why they do not resist the fascist occupation and on their way back, he is sold by the Croats, by the Serb partisans to the Serb Chetniks to shoot him. Some say he's been slaughtered, some say he's been shot. And as for Broz, therefore, there will be so much time to mention 9.9.'43. Mr. when he capitulates Italy. It shows what his movement was like. At the headquarters of Josip Broz Tito, William Bill Deakin, an English liaison officer who received the capitulation of a great Italian army, he did not inform Broza because if he had informed him, Broz would have taken tons and wagons of war material and armed himself. So Churchill prefers not to take it but to take, several tens of thousands of Yugoslavs, Croats and Slovenians and in the Italian army because Italy had an occupation of Istria and a piece of Dalmatia, all as one wants to join Broz's army, Churchill does not let them go. In the 11th month. The Tehran Conference at which Broz does not win, or partisans, the status of the Allied Army and all major battles II. svt. war ended That's what you need to know when you talk about it. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u42923	The next club of MPs will be the green-left block on behalf of which the respected representative Damir Bakic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u42924	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. In fact, I will also talk about some sort of haste about one specific, specific, in the other hand quite like my colleague Selak Rasdic. A few days ago, the EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds announced an invitation to show interest in funding projects under the Investment in the Infrastructure of Religious Communities programme in the earthquake of affected areas. In fact, according to the investment programme in the infrastructure of religious communities, it is actually the successor of last year's investment programme in the community, the same investment programme in the community that has held public attention year after year because of the open stretching of religious communities, especially the Catholic Church. Last year, I will remind her that 124 projects were accepted, 124 of them were proposed and 20 million kunas were distributed, and out of these 124 were financed as many as 110 projects of the Catholic Church, and the Catholic Church of those 20 million went to 17.7 million kuna. The rules and method of evaluation of the proposed projects were far from transparent, so even before 1st of September, here is already exactly since 1st of September, it has been practically nine months, so nine months ago Minister Tramišak asked several parliamentary questions, asking for clarifications of the evaluation process of the notified projects. In addition, I asked the ministry to publish a full list of notified projects with credits, and I also prayed for the publication of criteria under which the commission assigned additional 10 points to the notified projects on top of 70 defined by the rules, so the commission assigned an additional 10. I've been looking for criteria on the basis of which these extra 10 were assigned. I especially asked if such criteria were at all or simply shared them as bonus points in their sympathies. After a little over a month, not with an excessive delay, the minister answered me something, but the answer to these two fundamental questions was lagging behind. I asked again, again in writing, again formally 14th of October 2020, the same questions. The minister then responded with a little more delays and again something and again both key answers were lagging behind. I asked again January 18, 2021, so this year the same questions, absolutely crucial to understanding the process or the way the public money was distributed. There's still no answer for four months. In my court, it is, in fact, a complete lack of responsibility and respect and our own ministerial positions and our representative's duties, but above all, it is a lack of responsibility for the citizens. I invite you, therefore, Minister Tramišak and from this place to answer questions. It's in the interest of the citizens and the public, but also of yours because covering up the truth is just the first step in distorting it, which then opens up space and falseness. Don't make a contribution to it, Minister. These days, the best we can see is what it's like.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u43004	The next Club of Representatives will be the Centre and GLAS on behalf of which the respected representative Dalia Oreskovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u43005	Dear citizens, dear citizens throughout the Republic of Croatia, dear voters, Croatia can wake up on Monday as an important different country and I want to wake up in such a country where finally after 20 years, and somewhere after 30 years, there has been a change of government. Until the removal of one and the same political party which manages a particular county, city or municipality. And such a long-term rooting of one of these same party structures in the levers of power leads to the creation of corrupt, clientelistic and non-prising networks, and such power itself becomes a systemic error. It doesn't matter if she's red or blue. Such power is primarily turned on itself and on its own interests, and at least on the interests and needs of the citizens. In politics, I became aware of the way in which the existing state structure damages the real quality of life and the well-being of all our citizens. And I wanted to break what I call a cartago, which is a state-owned design designed in accordance with the needs of large and powerful political parties at the expense of the interests of all of us, not political parties, but citizens, voters. In 2019, I put together a strategy that changes significantly. It is a strategy to fight corruption, however, electoral laws, a line of electoral units and a territorial structure directly affects this network of corrupt interests, which is the main reason for our citizens' emigration and demographic breakdown. Everything is written in the document I handed over to the Croatian Parliament in 2019, and now in 2021, as a parliamentary representative, I have sent a document which, on the agenda but I doubt the ruling will put it into debate, so that I have the opportunity to ask from leftist to sovereign whether you are to reduce the number of counties, cities and municipalities, whether you are for reforming electoral legislation, whether you are for those anti-corruption tools that I advocate based on my experience and professional knowledge. And in them, more or less everything is written about what we talked about today and what colleague Nadj was talking about, about regulating lobbying. In fact, it says that we need to start by amending constitutional provisions in the section defining the relationship between the president of the state and the government because in many ways the letters and obligations of the Constitution are not adhered to. It says we can or should change the term of office of the attorney general, not 4 but 8 years, but only one term of office. It says that we need to strengthen the Committee to prevent conflicts of interest and how to implement it. It says how to strengthen the internal control system in the judiciary, everything we're going to talk about when we discuss selecting a new president or president of the Supreme Court, about the property card verification system and judges and state lawyers and politicians who basically don't exist. Everything that needs to be changed is drawn and described how. And since I am aware that the Croatian Parliament is the source at which the policy has distorted its meaning, I have also referred to the Committee on the Constitution a proposal for the provisions of the Rules of Procedure which should also be amended on the trail of experiences that it says that political trade moves from the way in which the Croatian Parliament is established. So it's all on the agenda. But what's missing? There's no political will. And that is why I openly advocate and support the shift of power and all the new progressive forces that you can read in the second round of the election of locals in order to change the power because all of these proposals that I put into practice long ago, in the procedure, you can all read them, will not be able to discuss them at all as long as the knights of corruption sit in their chairs, as long as the balance of power changes on the political scene. And there's one more thing we're missing, and that's the voter's consciousness, that every power is changing, that it has to and can change. And that's why he calls on voters to show on Sunday that they have become aware of their rights and the power that comes from it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u43076	The next club of representatives will be the Croatian sovereigns on behalf of whom the respected representative Marijan Pavliček will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u43077	Dear Vice President of HS, colleagues and colleagues. Here, we're in the middle of a local election campaign. In a few days, in the second round, we will choose the leaders in our cities, municipalities and counties. And part of ours here, a colleague here in the Assembly has run for these honorable functions and despite the different worldview, despite the various parties' belongings, despite the different programmes that individual candidates have offered, after 30 May all those chosen will unfortunately have something in common. And that's that they're all going to be head of cities, municipalities and counties where today, 2021, there's less of a population than it was 10 years ago, let alone 20 or 30 years ago. Croatia is demographically broken and it is the defeat of all of us, especially the defeat of the ruling structures. Croatia today is estimated to have about 3.8 million inhabitants, Croatia is one of the EU countries with the highest emigration rates at the annual level, annually the Republic of Croatia leaves about 50,000 of our citizens, with the moss going to Western European countries, and the wave is about higher education staff and the working-age population that builds its families there. Slavonia lost more than 300 thousand inhabitants in 30 years, past where I came from. Despite these catastrophic demographic indicators, however, Croatia has no real strategy for demographic restoration today. Croatia has 555 cities and municipalities today. Today, Croatia has 20 counties, several thousand councilors in municipal, city councils and county parliaments. Several thousand headmasters per department, in cities, municipalities and counties, a simple system that is no longer sustainable. And real reforms are needed, in a demographic sense, but also, true reforms in local self-government. I'll give you some examples from the field. For example, the Municipality of Bogdanovci is a municipality consisting of 3 places, Bogdanovci, Porcelains, Petrovci, three places that are not connected by road, all of them must reach their municipal centre through the City of Vukovar. And I am glad that just the council members of the Municipality of Bogdanovci and that of the Croatian conservative parties, HSP are launching an initiative to call a referendum among locals for the accession of the Municipality of Bogdanovci to the City of Vukovar, which is the only logical solution and I hope then HS will confirm this decision. However, this is only a drop in the sea, in dozens, and perhaps hundreds of municipalities need to be attached to larger environments. All municipalities that are not economically self-sustainable do not have the purpose of existence, should not be the purpose of themselves or the municipal chief. You have an absolute situation today that in a town for a newborn child you get a fee of 50,000, only three kilometers away in the neighboring municipality you get 1,000 kuna. You have a situation that in one city all children have the right to scholarships that study under regular conditions, while in the neighbouring municipality no one has the right to a scholarship. And in the beginning, our fellow citizens are not in the same starting positions, depending on where they live. This only speeds up the process of the disappearance of the village because they simply do not have the possibility of even development. And I hope this is the last time that we will go out in this form in local elections, I believe that in the next four years we will find an optimal model of local and regional self-government for the Republic of Croatia that will guarantee the equal development of all our citizens, regardless of whether it is the far east, the far west, the far north or the far south of our beautiful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u43166	The next Club of Representatives is that of the SDP, on behalf of which the respected representative Vesna Nadj will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u43167	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues today I will talk about the need to regulate lobbying in the Republic of Croatia. Lobbying or advocacy is the insistence of individuals or stakeholders to influence public policy formation. The lobbying regulation is needed to ensure that the impact of lobbyists on the process of adoption and efficiency of public policies is as transparent as possible. Transparency should contribute to increasing the quality of legislative and executive decisions. Lobbying is only referred to in the Republic of Croatia when a scandal like that arises. when it is 14.11.2019. Raiffeisen Bank published a request for pressure services against the Constitutional Court and other courts in the Republic of Croatia. When lobbying is mentioned in the Republic of Croatia, corruption is immediately perceived. It is immediately a synonym for lobbying Josipa Rimac and Gabriela Žalac for a loan to HABOR investor for the winddigger Krš-Padjana, for an affair of the Consulate in connection with the co-operation of the wife of Tomislav Karamark with the lobbyist of Hungary's MOL, which cost Tomislav Karamark's political career after which the government of Tihomir Oreskovic fell. In democratic societies, a prerequisite for the recognition of lobbying from corruption is the transparency of the whole process and a strong system of regulation of lobbying that must define standards of behaviour between lobbyists and officials in the performance of public duties. The European institutions, parliament, commission, councils have agreed to update the common rules of the lobbying process. The register will show who represents what interests and what financial resources it has. The number of registered organisations is now around 12,500, with 50,000 employees. Lobbing is a legal and legitimate profession in all developed democratic societies where transparency is crucial but with us it is still a gray zone. Without regulation of lobbying and transparency of procedures, procedures, we enter the barust of corruption that swallows us all together like living mud and bites public money with big bites, which is exactly the case in the Republic of Croatia. The only exchange of lobbyists with representatives of public authorities may be arguments, and no money and expensive gifts such as watches, jewelry, expensive travel, etc. In the Republic of Croatia, there is no regulation that regulates lobbying or advocacy. The Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests states as one of the purposes of this law to prevent private influences on decision-making on the conduct of public duties, but the law did not regulate lobbying or advocacy. For some time Croatian lobbyist society has advocated the adoption of laws that regulate lobbying, so it was established and working together in 2012 and even referred the bill to the Croatian Parliament, but it was never passed. In the Anti-Corruption Strategy for 2015 to 2020, lobbying is listed as one of the measures to strengthen the integrity of responsibility and transparency in public authorities. The action plan also lists it as one of the measures in the 4th quarter of 2020 to draw up a draft framework governing lobbying. To date, however, the draft lobbying law has not seen the light of day, even though some activities have begun in the resolution ministry. The Croatian government expects the Croatian Recovery and Resistance plan to begin at the end of this year and by the end of 2021. Croatia expects about 6 billion kuna to be paid. Does anyone really think that private interest doesn't matter whose account they end up with that money and that the lobbyists of private companies are not already at a low start? Investment in lobbyists is one of the most profitable investments. When Michelle Obama advocated healthy food in elementary schools to prevent the threat of American children, fast food producers increased investment in lobbyists by 50%. The question arises whether the HDZ government can launch a new wave of investment and announced privatisation with its coalition partners, without leading to even stronger corruption and clientelism, because legal lobbying is out of the question, but lobbying outside the public's light, perhaps lamb and gemište. I therefore call on the Ministry of Justice and Administration to speed up the process of drawing up draft laws on lobbying and letting it go into public debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u43261	The next Club of Representatives will be the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Zdravka Busic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u43262	Thank you very much, thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In my position on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club today, I want to look back on humanitarian and all kinds of assistance as well as solidarity from Croats outside the Republic of Croatia with the victims in the earthquake affected areas of Zagreb and its surroundings and later Banovina. Only a few hours after the devastating earthquake that struck Zagreb and the surroundings of the Croats around the world were engaged and looking for ways to help Zagreb and the earthquake of the unhappy people. And with an even higher and larger engagement and stronger engagement, they continued after unfortunately an even more devastating earthquake in Banovina. Croats outside the Republic of Croatia or the Croatian diaspora as popularly called it has always stood next to their country of Croatia when it was most difficult for her. This attachment was best manifested at the time of the creation of the Croatian state, or at the time of the Homeland War, even now in the troubles that have hit us. I would long list organizations, associations and individuals who have selfishly responded to these difficult moments of devastating earthquakes in Croatia. Everyone, they've all found and are still looking for ways to help and how to get to the people who are the most affected. Support messages, requests for assistance and co-operation with Croatian communities around the world have been circulating and still orbiting social networks to raise financial resources for the reconstruction of the destroyed areas. All of them were innovative and successful in their efforts and help. But today, with a special emphasis, I would refer to an initiative that has managed to gather almost the whole world and has been in our focus lately, precisely because of successful engagement and very concrete projects. This is the initiative of ONE CROATIA behind which is the association of Croatian-American ACAP experts who, it is a abbreviations, which has joined around 20 Croatian associations, from Canada to South America, from Australia to New Zealand. ACAP, which is the Association of Croatian American Professionals or Association of Croatian-American Experts is a very successful organization founded in 2015. and which already has over 2,000 members. And what is particularly important here to emphasize ACAP has its own branch in Croatia. This initiative was joined by Croatian associations around the world with a single goal, helping the area affected by the earthquake. Financial assistance has arrived and is still arriving from all sides. And most importantly, targeted donations by this institution, these initiatives, are very valuable medical equipment such as anaesthesia devices, transport respirators, protection departments, ambulances equipped with transport respirators, and distinctive protective jackets for construction experts and volunteers. This has enabled assistance and the most remote patients in this, in all weather conditions, and protective equipment will certainly protect all statisticians, volunteers and other staff in the performance of their important tasks. In addition to raising funds for all these valuable projects that I have listed, the initiative has also launched a programme called "Pen Pal" that wants to connect children in an earthquake affected areas with peers from the Croatian diaspora. The goal is for children to teach each other Croatian and English, but also to create friendships, friendships that we hope will be a provision for an even better and closer cooperation between the country and the evicted Croatia. There will be a lot of good ideas, because good ideas, good intentions and good projects will also be there because Croatians around the world are telling us "Don't forget this is just our beginning" and thank them for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u43263	Thank you very much. The presentation of the position on behalf of representatives' clubs and independent representatives, and the first one on behalf of the MOST Representatives' Club, will speak to the esteemed representative Marija Selak Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u43360	The discussion on the meaning of the work of a committee is a good reason to discuss the way, and thus the meaning of the work of the assembly as a whole. The second argument that is imposed as a reason for the debate on the work of the assembly is the agenda of the parliamentary debates, the time when it is sent, as well as the schedule of certain points. It is particularly indicative now at the time of the local elections when it is targetedly drawn up softly. Therefore, the only criterion is to classify the points that are medialy uninteresting and which are not fertile ground for discussion for the purpose of closing the stage for opposition and preserving the ruling majority's own political advantage. Also, since there is a drop in general epidemiological measures in June, it would be time to revise epidemiological measures in the assembly and assembly. The Bureau of Parliament should meet and revise these measures that are in force in the assembly. So I will use this free speech to taxively count the obvious shortcomings in the work of parliaments that prevent quality debates so that citizens finally know why the assembly looks the way it looks and who is responsible. First, the committees are the key to the work of the assembly. Let's face it, there should be fewer. Their number should be halved and coordinated more or less with the government's portfolios, first because of mathematics because the assembly is a relatively small parliament and cannot have this many committees because there are not enough MPs to fill them. One representative should seek to be in one or a maximum of two committees, to specialise in topics and resolutions, so that representatives can request more detailed information from representatives of the government and ministries at committee meetings. The committees should be bodies that will take their positions and make proposals, and not that, as they are now doing, in their reports, they convince a selective debate on the committee. The Chairs of the Committee, as well as other committee rapporteurs, shall actively represent the views and proposals of the Committee at the plenary session. Finally, it is necessary to set up cameras on committees to make it available to the public at all times as well as to how individual committees work. Let's just say the truth and let's just say it, we need to cut our chairs because they're just decorative or they're used to getting compensation for them, not really something useful we can do for our citizens' benefit. Secondly, as far as the control function of the assembly is concerned, as it is most often spoken of, as bodies that should be controlled by the government's work, this is where we fall on the first step. Governments and ministries often do not respond to parliamentary questions or are significantly delayed with answers. And in this conference, we had at least one case in which the government proved to have given a false answer to one parliamentary question claiming that one ministry had no requested information but had a DIP. Later, through the right to access information, it proved that in this particular case, the Ministry of Justice and the administration had deceived the assembly and delivered a false and wrong answer to the parliamentary question in the first attempt. So the question arises, how can the Assembly and the MPs do the job if they cannot get the information they need or if the government sends false answers to their questions? Not to mention just the situation with the report on the work of headquarters, which the opposition literally pushed out by political pressure only 9 months after the outbreak was declared. Now I'm just going to list the other points because unfortunately there's no time for this over-the-counter debate. It is doubtful time to send the schedule, how the schedule is drawn up, how ministers who often do not come to parliamentary meetings propose their own laws or leave in half the debate. The fact that the Rules of Procedure are a dead letter on paper, only three replicas after the debate has been held, which is why they cannot counter the further course of the debate and, if used, prevent the subsequent involvement of MPs, lead to a conscious violation of the Rules of Procedure by calling for a famous article. 238, in order to be able to say something because the Rules of Procedure are drawn up so that they are treated as small children who are constantly being warned of poor conduct rather than being given equal and active participation in the debate. The speaker also thinks that the incarnation of Pharaohs with belonging powers is therefore a right to document parliamentary deputies and comment on their discussions rather than be what is his duty. The first among the equals that is the impartial Moderator of the debate. When I announced my entry into politics, I said my goal was to restore my dignity to the assembly. This means to make the assembly a place of quality and reasoned debate. The Parliament is not a playground for emptying our egotrypaic urges, but an institution that creates the most important product in the country, laws that regulate our relations. It is regrettable that it should be reminded of this rather than resulting from our shared activity.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u43361	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49471	Honorable MPs and respected MPs, good morning. We continue to work according to the planned agenda, first item today: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law establishing the Agency for Hydrocarbons, first reading, P.Z. No. 142; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 14(2). 85. The Constitution and the Art. 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs. I would ask the applicant's representative to give an additional explanation of this bill. With us is a respected State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development, Ivo Milatić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49472	Thank you, Mr. President HS. Appreciable parliamentary representatives and MPs. In front of you is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law establishing the Agency for Hydrocarbons. The hydrocarbons Agency was founded in 2014 under the Law on the Research and Exploitation of Hydrocarbons, which was first adopted that same year. The Agency was established as a regulatory body responsible for monitoring the activities of hydrocarbon research and exploitation. In 2018, a new Law on the Research and Exploitation of Hydrocarbons was adopted, which this year is in line with relevant EU directives, as well as the best world practices of countries that have long-standing experience in the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons, but which, in the energy transition, want to place emphasis on renewable energy. In this context, it is necessary to regulate the Agency's activities, which becomes an important factor in energy transition in such a way as to actively include research and development of geothermal energy projects, both for the production of electricity and heat, and to participate and monitor the development of storage and disposal of carbon dioxide in geological structures. According to the latest International Energy Agency report, most of the global CO2 reductions from now to 2030 will come from technologies available today, but in 2050 almost half of the reductions will come from technologies currently in the development phase. So in all projections by 2050, geothermal energy takes an important place alongside the energy of the sun and the wind. The agency has also recognized and processed deep data that speak of the great geothermal potential of the Republic of Croatia, which has not been sufficiently identified so far. To this end, the Agency is already a promoter of the geothermal potential of the Republic of Croatia and, through European initiatives, aims to enable future investments in geothermal energy as the only stable renewable energy source. Thus, the Agency continues to examine the most efficient and profitable models of potential geothermal development projects, which ultimately need to bring multiple benefits to local communities and offer a better quality of life. In addition, the Agency is working on making atlases of areas suitable for the disposal of carbon dioxide in geological structures, and is also recognised as one of the key links to achieving the goals of reducing carbon dioxide emissions in the atmosphere. It is about projects that integrate the European national and local components. It is not necessary to forget another extremely important role of the Agency in the security of supply of energy to the Republic of Croatia, in accordance with the Law on the Market in Oil and Oil Products, or Council Directive 2009/119/EC of 14 September 2009 on the formation of 90 daily oil and petroleum products. The Agency for Hydrocarbons is a central body for the establishment, storage and renewal of Croatian oil and oil products stocks, as it is the follow-up of the former Oil and Oil Products Agency, HANDA, which is attached in 2017 to the Agency for Hydrocarbons. The law therefore achieves compliance with the requirements of the Law on the Research and Exploitation of Hydrocarbons adopted by this esteemed House at the beginning of this year, which is aimed at achieving the energy transition objectives and enables the Agency to participate more actively in their implementation measures. The specific amendments proposed by this Act are the harmonisation of the Agency's tasks relating to research and exploitation of geothermal waters and underground storage of gas, the activities of the Agency in the course of the Agency's participation in the process of amending and supplementing spatial plans and giving it the power to carry out oil and mining work for the purposes of assessing geothermal potential. The Agency may also propose the establishment of a development company to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, allowing the Agency to trade in large oil products for registration in the Court Register, and the termology is aligned with the name of energy activity. These amendments and additions to the laws are also proposed to appoint two members of the Agency’s Administrative Board, together with members of state officials, the authorities of the state administration responsible for energy, finance and spatial planning activities, as well as two members from the ranks of management of civil servants with relevant expertise in the field of energy and the economy or from the scientific and professional public in the field of energy and economy. The deadlines for submitting the report to the Government of the Republic of Croatia by 30 April of the current year for the previous year are also amended to comply with the possibility of ensuring all relevant financial indicators. Terminological harmonisation is achieved in accordance with the State Administration System Act. History shows that the crises of great proportions force us to significantly examine and create opportunities for better development and recovery. Croatia has an ambitious vision of a recovered and resilient economy aimed at sustainable development objectives, and we allow these changes and additions of the law to make it a simpler and more efficient way towards them, while raising energy security through the strengthening of the Agency for Hydrocarbons. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49473	I would like to thank the secretary of state, so let's go to the replicas, first of all is the respected colleague Andreja Maric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49474	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, in preparation for this point I have come across here and the Annual Plan of the Agency for Hydrocarbons for 2021, you are the President of the Governing Council, and here you have quite a number of these things, which is a vision, which are plans and goals, among other things we turn stronger and geothermal waters. But as far as oil and gas are concerned, I'm curious about the potential of the Republic of Croatia, which we still have in the plan of exploration and when will we get close to Italy? I came across information that Italy has 107 gas platforms, and Croatia has only 20 gas platforms. So what are the plans of the Republic of Croatia on this matter if you can explain a little more in detail? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49475	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49476	Thank you. As far as our plans are concerned, they're famous. You know that since the establishment of the Hydrocarbon Agency, the government of the Republic of Croatia has contracted 16 contracts for the exploitation and exploration of hydrocarbons. We continue to think that all those suitable areas that are potentially of interest to these future investors are to be placed on certain competitions in the future. How much of it will be to find it now is hard to say. What we expect from these existing works that are done for certain that there will be gas finds, at least that's what experts say, how much oil there might be yet to see. Certainly our idea is to stay in the production of the bar in today's frames because the simple production falls every year because of the usability of all these beds. So our idea is at least to stay where we are.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49477	Thank you. Comrade Vucilović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49478	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, my question may come out of the context of what we are talking about today, but it concerns renewable energy sources because we now see that some of the activities in the agency are being expanded to renewable sources or geothermal sources. So I am interested in what it is and what direction is the empowerment of our citizens and consumers in the electricity generation segment, or in accordance with the Renewable Energy Directive, means that regardless of whether they live in family houses or buildings, they also get the right to produce energy from renewable sources, so here if you can inform us what this is about? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49479	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49480	Thank you. As far as this is concerned it is clear, what is independent of the directive is our commitment as the Republic of Croatia and the laws that are about to come before this esteemed home, which is the Law on the Market for Electricity and the Law on Renewable Sources and a highly efficient cogeneration, we will detail all these new newspapers about renewable sources in terms of even greater involvement of citizens. You know well that we introduced another 2018. consumption for self-supply, now through new institutes such as aggregates, such as energy communities, citizens will be able to be very much involved in the production of renewable energy and even the same, this same production through aggregates and aggregates and sell and of which we would say physical and direct benefits, means absolutely taking care of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49481	Thank you. Comrade Dark-Taritash, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49482	Thank you very much, President HS, Your Honor, Secretary of State. I'm going to go back a little bit to geothermal water for the simple reason that we had this recent decarbonisation strategy, i.e. by 2030, and by 2050, where it clearly states that the main energy source will be electricity. We know that electricity, that we have to use it and that water is one of the renewable sources of energy, so we're talking about big, big needs, and also geothermal water. Geothermal waters are primarily used for heating or we have a power plant that is near Bjelovar and we have several power plants that are being prepared. And I want to know how many research fields are in Croatia at this time or perhaps individual wells where we examine the possibility of geothermal waters because I'm sure it's one of the really stepping outs that Croatia can have? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49483	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49484	We are absolutely aware of our potential because the agency is now producing one detailed atlas of all our geothermal potentials that are clearly already known because more than 100 wells of INAs exist in which there are known to be geothermal potentials because they were not suitable for hydrocarbons. Uh, now we have a few more, I think almost 20 contracts for the exploitation of geothermal water for electricity that are under way where the licenses are removed and this one is doing research, so we expect that in the next time we will have several new power plants in terms of building permits and tomorrow potential constructions. And this area around the heat will be the same in the focus of our action because we think that those low-grade wells are suitable for that, and in terms of greenhouses, tourism and other heating needs and this plant.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49485	Thank you very much. Comrade Pavić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49486	Your Honor, my question is the same about geothermal sources. In fact, we know that it is often necessary to change spatial plans at the level of the county and local self-government if we want to do research or if we want to... those executive fields. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Do you perhaps know the data in percentages, how many executive fields actually result in a positive result or that we have sources after that because if we're going to work on some kind of power plant based on that heat obtained from that water, we have to actually prepare ourselves as a local self-government and for a new spatial plan for the construction of that power plant.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49487	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49488	Thank you. This provision in the Law on Hydrocarbons actually goes in the direction of what you have now asked, where we have asked that the agency may actually have an initiative, clearly that the agency does not have the authority to adopt spatial plans but that it has an initiative to launch any dotted and changing spatial plans to which local self-government in our opinion should react, and precisely in the direction of what you are saying, we mean in detail these studies, atlass and all preparatory research, we will have data which areas would be suitable for what. So, already that data, here's Mr. Krpan who's the director of the agency, he knows more about what's suitable for what, and in that direction we're going to go towards the local self-government with the initiative in advance.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49489	Now it's all yours, Comrade Dragonman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49490	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State Milatić, with these amendments and amendments to the law, the agency is getting more jobs or expanding activities, so as head of the local self-government unit, I am interested in what role and authority will the agency play in spatial plans? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49491	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49492	Thank you for your intervention. Our role will only be such that this part when it comes to the agency's affairs where we see it necessary to prepare a change of spatial plan to speed up all processes, so our role will be to analyse the need for changes in spatial plans, to make a request to the local government's competent unit and to elaborate the same and the local self-government unit will answer us within 30 days whether or not to initiate that change. It's what's our only authority, to prepare you to isolate it, that if we need and help and financially, but what we can't, we can't bring a spatial plan, and that's why the idea of being there is a transport and that... in synergy, it gets better. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49493	Comrade Stier, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49494	Thank you, Mr. President. I welcome the Secretary of State. I wanted to ask you about geothermal waters, so... 4. if I have read this proposal correctly, it regulates the Agency's relationship with potential investors. Does this include the same extension of competence and cooperation with some of the public institutions of other countries that specialize in this issue? I'm asking this for a reason why I know that, for example. Some institutions like Iceland where research is highly developed around and of course using geothermal waters are often reference points for some investors, so how do you plan to organise or regulate these relations with other public institutions of other countries that can be a reference to potential investors? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49495	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49496	Thanks for asking. As far as this is concerned, we do not have any obstacles and without this law being changed in such a way that we are working with other countries, especially because the Agency for Hydrocarbons is, for example, the executive body of our ministry or the government for this problem, so that there are simply no obstacles there, and in fact, it is a desirable situation that countries where geothermal energy is something that is really well organised and that are in Europe primarily Iceland and Italy, that it is working with them and there are no obstacles to possible cooperation and at the scientific level and also at this practical, actually changes in experience because something that we do daily so that this part and people and experts who are now increasingly involved in this will only be as capable of such common combinations and cooperation.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49497	And the last replica, colleague Ivanovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49498	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Secretary of State. Here are the majority of MPs who have also referred to geothermal sources, Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem as a category where there are a lot of sources or geothermal sources, but let's be honest, the capacities of these small units of local self-government are neither professional nor fiscally prepared, how much the agency will play because such geothermal sources could, of course, push the economy in these very passive areas when it comes to the east of Croatia. Well, I'm curious about how much the agency is going to want and want these sources to come back to life and, of course, be the future of energy that's predicted by the year 2050?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49499	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49500	Thanks for asking. I'm glad you asked that because we're actually coming to the point that we're changing the Law on hydrocarbons and this law wanted to fast and it's a development society. So we as the Government have determined that the agency through the Ministry can give the government an initiative to establish a development society for what you asked, meaning for those local self-governments and those areas where the level of CAPEX is by the amount of tomorrow potentially benefiting from that rig, greater that the market has no account at all to do but it would be socially useful for this geothermal energy to be used. So this development society, as a special society, will be able to use European funds in a way that will receive grants and in fact have a grants CAPEX, or a basic asset where we will then, in combination with local self-government, put the same local self-government into operation, and I think that's a good way, and as far as we can see, everyone agrees.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49501	Thank you. You can Secretary of State, get back to your seat. Now I'm gonna call the committee's reporters, will they take their word for it? If you don't, then I'm opening a debate, and it's the first turn of the Center and Voice Representatives Club, the Honorable colleague, Anka Mrak Taritash, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49502	Thank you very much. Dear President of HS, the Honorable Secretary of State with his associates. We have before us a proposal to amend and supplement the Law establishing the Agency for Hydrocarbons, which was to be expected for the simple reason why we comply with the laws that we have adopted at the beginning of this year and simply the activity of the agencies had to be aligned with that amendment and the addition of the law. So we have a few things in this law that makes sense, which doesn't have any kind of suggestion that I would say we always distinguish some of the technical things so that you decided to extend the deadlines for the report you explained why. We also know that we no longer have ministerial assistants but we have management directors, so it was also to expect the members of the Management Board of the Agency to change in this regard. As soon as we mention hydrocarbons, of course, it's all on everyone's mind that they're towers and oil exploration, and then oil wells, and then behind that well of gas, it's no wonder that we're all kind of in these replicas that we've given to the secretary of state to target hydrocarbons. We know and Croatia is an EU member, we know this desire, the tendency to be related to climate change, and it is logical that in this sense and certain things we prescribe in our legislation, it is logical that we also bring strategies. And I was deliberately talking about this strategy that was before I think we haven't even brought it in yet, not that I think but I'm sure, which is talking about... decarbonisation or what Croatia should do strategically by 2030 with a view of 2050, where it says that the main source of energy should actually be electricity. We know from where we get electricity, we know that one of the main pollutants we have, and that was, for example, an example, the City of Zagreb where there is no industry, where even when you don't have some kind of enhanced heating is a lot of particles in the air that are from the vehicle. But this is another topic with which these topics come from this ministry that unites both the economy and environmental protection and sustainable development here, and then we have opportunities to talk a lot about. I will in this presentation on behalf of the club a little more refer to this newspaper which the agency therefore has, which is related to spatial planning. From before, the agencies have a clear provision that says they support investors in the process of coming up with all necessary documents and/or documents necessary for the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons, as well as providing assistance to the investor for the purpose of resolving property relations for land particles within the field of investigation and/or exploitation. What is important to say is that dealing with hydrocarbons in Croatia is not since yesterday, so no one remembered yesterday, not five years ago, not ten years ago. It deals with hydrocarbons in these areas regardless of whether oil exploitation, gas exploitation or geothermal sources are being considered for many years. I'm always trying to make it easier for these discussions not to be dry, I come from one neighborhood or my father from a village near Bjelovar on the slopes of Bilogor, my grandfather told us the grandkids whom thank God he had seven which will no longer be a case in the future, but it's a theme of demographics, you won't have to do anything when I die, when I leave it to you there you'll draw oil. Of course we've all had a little laugh, it's a village called Big Brick, and it's about that there's one of the first geothermal power plants that was built, which is about a hundred yards from the family house that we had. So that's the data we're working on. What's the point of the agency? The Agency is the Executive Body of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the purpose of the Agency is to manage and to know the resources it manages. The main thing about the agency is that it has data, without data, without knowing exactly where there are research potentials in Croatia, and behind that potential for exploitation. The agency I can tell you is I'm using coloroquial and you won't blame me, you limp cat because then you can say what Croatia's potential is for the future. I do, because I really think Croatia's great future is the exploitation and exploitation of geothermal waters. The agency has to manage it, the agency has to have it, it's a basic task of the agency because then it can actually help investors. Here is a provision that says it, which speaks of preparing and delivering an initiative to make and amend and supplement spatial plans. I am on the Committee on Economy, which has been asked by the Secretary of State for this matter, you have put it in order to hire someone, and let's bear in mind the Law on Spatial Planning says the following is possible for everyone in the Republic of Croatia to make a proposal to amend and supplement any spatial plan and body that is competent to respond to this proposal. Why the agency decided to have a special provision so tightly, and we discussed this when we had a relationship between spatial planning and the agency, so the Law on Spatial Planning also states that all initiatives are being taken, that all bodies with public powers are already in charge of the decision to draw up a plan or amend and supplement each plan to provide all the information they have. We in the hierarchy of spatial plans have a state we still don't have, we have spatial plans of county, we have spatial plans of municipalities, we have general plans and we have urban plans. What I'm going to use in my individual debate is exclusively about spatial planning, but what I want to do in the club has more emphasis is the following. My experience, dealing with spatial planning and dealing with the issue of various permits is next. The bodies responsible for this try to facilitate the process. I said it on the board, and I'm going to say it again now, it's like that big train that has a locomotive full of coal and the one that runs the train trying to get as much of that coal as possible to get the train going as fast as possible, but it can't suffer as fast as any of those other cars that he doesn't control add. What am I trying to tell you? This was first seen in the process of issuing local and construction permits that, that all tried to include themselves in the process in their own opinion, their consents, and in this way, indeed, the procedure was maximumly delayed. Likewise, I now see that it is on the subject of spatial planning. The spatial planning really requires a certain amount of time, requires certain procedures, as the esteemed representative said the adoption of a spatial plan is guaranteed by the Constitution which is the jurisdiction of the units of the local regional or state, for the state, but if you go to the side with a number of things, and this procedure will not only take half a year, a year, two, it will take years. The fact is that people only see the problem in space at the moment when someone comes out of a building permit and that consciousness has come to an intervention in the spatial planning process when something in the spatial plan is those who issue a building permit issuing a building permit. So, ultimately an absolute agency should manage its resources, absolutely the agency should take care of it because if they don't manage it, if they don't know where the research potentials are, and of course after investigating the potential for exploitation are something easier to define then nobody else can say it, but in this way, in which you're actually opening up another additional, you're actually opening up an additional new job where you have a person who will deal with spatial planning while each county has an office, and that the state has a special, special administrative body that deals with it I have to admit to the end I don't see the reasons for it all together, and on the topic of spatial planning I'll still be in individual. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49503	The second debate will be the representative of Vesna Vucilovic on behalf of the House Movement Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49504	Thank you very much, well-respected President of the Croatian National Assembly. Dear Secretary of State with fellow Members, colleagues and colleagues, we have before us a bill that had to come to us because we must comply with this law with those we have passed not so long ago and in the section relating to appointments, funding and reporting deadlines, etc. So the Hydrocarbons Agency is given more power, the activity is being expanded into geothermal water for energy purposes, but also something we haven't heard too much about, which is the permanent management of CO2 in geological structures, and that would allow a lot to be discussed. So this technique isn't too valuable to mention about building a low-carbon society, and we had that strategy at the plenary session last week. This would be just a small part of the correction of a disbalanced system that has been achieved by overusing fossil fuels, and what I have to point out is a certain amount of uncertainty and what long-term effects on the environment, the underground and everything associated with these techniques are unknown. So here's what I'm calling for from this pay phone to sort of be taken care of. I'd go back a little bit in history. The agency was founded in 2014, aimed at exploring new oil and gas sites and was one of the biggest projects of the current government of the current president, Zoran Milanovic. It has been announced that Croatia will become a small Norway, no less, as oil will be sought in the Adriatic and reportedly found. It gave up, the agency stayed and moved to Slavonia where Canadian Vermilion now has research fields. I will stress once again that the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons as an energy in the economy in the 21st century, however, independent of that, we still depend on oil and gas as one transitional energy must come to where it belongs, and this is still at the beginning. What I'm going to point out as a positive is, these are geothermal potentials, geothermal water means a lot of replicas. As far as hydrocarbons are concerned, I will point out once again that the supplies that we have and which are limited, which are non-renewable, may still need to be kept a little bit more as an unsustainable raw material for an organic, chemical industry that will not disappear on its own and which will need that raw material in the future. This expansion of the Agency's activity on geothermal water and gas storage, it was announced in 2017, in some media we were then able to read that Slavonia will receive 7 billion kuna a year from drilling oil, we are waiting for these billions in Slavonia, still. Certain licenses for surveying geothermal waters have already been granted recently for 4 new research spaces, in the area of Slavonia, Podravina and Međimurje, one and in Ernestinovo, a municipality that is close to the city of Osijek in Osijek-Baranja County. It is also interesting that in all 5 Slavonian counties are in strategic projects in the preparation of geothermal potential projects and in millions of amounts. Osijek-Baranja County 75 million kuna, Požeško-Slavonska 88 million kuna, Virovitica-Poravska 20, Vukovar-Srijemska as many as 180 million kuna. As far as we're concerned, we may need to take a closer look, but I must point out that even in the Agency's report that we got today, and thank you for that, we discussed it yesterday on the Committee on the Economy and agreed, it explicitly states that the Agency for Hydrocarbons has so-called. the data room, or the data room, the data centre in which everyone can mean, to gain insight into the atlas of geothermal potentials, or everything that has been done so far in terms of research of geothermal potentials in the Republic of Croatia, or not all geothermal potentials for all. So some are for electricity production, some are for heat, some can be used cascadely, so they can be used for different uses depending on the quality and recently signed a contract in Osijek-Baranja County, again, on research. So we're constantly investigating something, we're constantly doing some new projects, we're producing piles of paper for millions of dollars, so maybe we should see and inform people who are in charge and who sign these regional contracts that the data already exists in that so-called. given to a room, i.e. a data centre at the hydrocarbons Agency. Last week we had a low-carbon development strategy, and I said it was a list of nice desires. I'm going to do it again today because somehow, the laws that come to our plenary session, they still confirm it from week to week. I don't mind geothermal potentials, but they're here, they're not going anywhere. They won't disappear, we're now focusing on it, although we know and that's what the respected secretary of state has told us several times, that it's one of the most expensive uses, is the highest level of investment when using geothermal potentials. Where are we on solar panels, for example? So in the EU 70% of solar panels are on roofs of residential buildings and in principle, here I have mentioned the Renewable Energy Directive in the replica, which aims to strengthen smaller energy producers, strengthen energy cooperatives and, in principle, I am glad that these laws will soon come to our plenary session, so that our inhabitants of the Republic of Croatia can have and can produce and place that electricity and in some ways reduce energy costs. We also need to see what's happening with multi-state buildings, is it, in that context because it's not possible right now? And I'm going to have to point out another fact, which is hydropower plants. So when we talk about renewable energy sources, what about hydroelectric power plants, what about reversible hydropower plants, small hydropower plants that are extremely important? We always say that Croatia is abounding with water potential, there could be a lot to be done and I will mention it again. At the hydropower plant, 90% is a domestic component that is being built on, means a large proportion of construction works, transformers produced by Končar, very few import components, I think that we should talk about it a little bit more, go in this direction to strengthen and encourage this domestic industry, to finally move towards re-industrization, to start our domestic industry and exploit these green policies that Europe is promoting and against which no one has anything. But, let's see, how with our capacities, with our brains, with our industry we can engage in these flows, hire our industry and in some way, the more that money coming from the EU is kept in the Republic, not going to the variant, I don't know, wind power plant where 90% of the import component is, probably just the wind at home. I'm a bit of a cartoon, you won't mind. I will always advocate and advocate the domestic industry and the development of the domestic industry and use this pay phone every time. What's come to us about the Agency is in principle harmonizing with what we've already adopted, so there's not too much slow about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49505	We will now hear the 3rd debate, the HDZ Representatives' Club, on whose behalf the respected colleague Ante Deur will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49506	The Honorable President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here, we have before us the Law establishing the Agency for Hydrocarbons, which needs to be translated in terms of time and content into the Law establishing the Agency for Hydrocarbons, and to extend the tasks of the Agency established in 2014. as a public institution for the purpose of providing systematic operational support to competent authorities in activities related to the exploration and exploitation of hydroterminal water pipelines for energy purposes, as well as the permanent disposal of carbon dioxide in geological structures, as well as in the insurance of mandatory supplies of oil and petroleum products. Croatia's EU accession is the largest free trade in the world and confirms that during political and economic development, it provides additional stability and security to the Croatian business environment. Croatia continues to make great efforts to develop the business climate and improve the overall investment environment. Research and exploitation bring numerous benefits, job creation, sustainable development of the domestic industry. Research and exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Adriatic is a step forward in the economic development of the Republic of Croatia. In addition to the reduced need for imports of energy, which is important for the competitiveness of the economy as a whole, research and exploitation activities provide a strong incentive for both directly linked and secondary industries and service activities. Hydrocarbon management supports the development of new industries, and activities aimed at exporting goods and services. All this will lead to the creation of new jobs, but development and academic and scientific institutions of the Republic of Croatia through the need for new professional staffs of different profiles. Investment in the survey of the store Croatia will cost nothing, and experience from other countries shows that around 60% of such investments remain in the country. The investigation and exploitation of hydrocarbons is a strong incentive to directly related industries, but also to indirect accompanying industries and service activities. The development of existing industries is a step forward in the economic development of the Republic of Croatia. The activities of the hydrocarbon exploitation research will also encourage the launch of new specialized industrial activities in Croatia. The exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons on land lasts over 60 years, and today also in the mainland part of Croatia intensive products and gas and oil, while in the Adriatic Sea, the history of hydrocarbon exploration and exploitation has been over 40 years, and since 1999. The Croatian part of the Adriatic Sea produces gas. Croatia currently has 60 hydrocarbon exploitation fields, 57 on land and 3 on the sea. The vision of hydrocarbon and geothermal water exploration and exploitation is consistent with best world practices aimed at increasing hydrocarbon reserves, as well as the potential of geothermal water in the Republic of Croatia, and safe and reliable... oil and petroleum products in the event of a threat to energy security due to exceptional supply disorders. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] This agency is of paramount importance because it ensures the implementation of oil mining activities with the promotion of competitiveness, optimal management of hydrocarbon reserves, potentially geomethane waters, as well as for the management of mandatory oil and oil derivatives supplies in the prescribed quantity and structure. Context, a major disturbance caused by the Covid-19 crisis, pointed out how much modern societies rely on energy. However, the effects of the crisis are also felt significant in the energy sector. After the pandemic caused by Covid-19, we face another crisis of the economic crisis. A major shock for the economy requires a strong coordinated economic response. The recovery from this crisis must focus on investments that must trigger a new European economic model, more resilient, more protected, more sovereign and more inclusive. A project such as the European Green Agreement and other national carbon-free development plans has great potential to strengthen our economy and contribute to the creation of a new model of economic progress in Croatia. Croatia recognises the importance of this ambitious plan as a country of great natural resources. It highlights the objectives already largely covered by Croatia's energy development strategy by 2030. with a view to 2050, integrated national energy climate plan by 2030. oil will be a globally important energy for a long time, and gas remains an important transition energy towards completely restored energy sources. In addition to private investments such as recently released into the work of the first geoterminal power plant, EU funds under the Cohesion Policy Programme and other programmes will also be committed. Here we expect a new direction for Croatia to follow, the development of a country in Europe. After a few decades we re-launched the exploration of oil and gas in Croatia, we attracted renowned investors and after a long time new gas supplies were found, which will certainly increase domestic production. Oil and gas... Over the next decades and we need to reduce the current dependence in researching the exploitation of the potential we have. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] But for the first time, we began to use the entire energy of the country, including its sustainable part. We have directed our knowledge and experience towards geothermal energy, a pure sustainable source of energy that is entirely on the line with the European Commission's relapses on the idea of green Europe. There is currently a global search for new and renewable sources that can be used for competitive energy production, and geothermal energy has great potential because the same knowledge of technology as in the discovery of other hydrocarbons is used. Croatia has excellent starting positions here. Our Pannonian swimming pool has as much as 60% higher geoterminal gradient than the European average and the overall potential is quite geothermal energy. Geotermins offer a real transition, and potential projects in Croatia are being stepped up by wells originally designed for the purposes of research and exploitation of oil and gas. Now these wells are given a second purpose and enable the production of electricity, heating, homes and plastics, and the capture of carbon dioxide storage. In the context of mandatory stocks of oil and petroleum products, the strategy ensures a reduced quantity of compulsory stocks held in immaterial form in favour of increasing physical material quantities of compulsory stocks and security of supply of the Republic of Croatia. The adoption of this law will harmonize the activities of the Agency relating to the research and exploitation of geoterminal waters and the specific storage of gas, further expanding activities in the form of the participation of this agency in the process of amending and supplementing the premises of the plans and as a proposal for the establishment of a development society of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The HZD club will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49507	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, a respected colleague, Branko Grcic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49508	Thank you, Mr. President. Honorable secretary of state with associates, colleagues and colleagues. So there is a law before us that only at first sight represents compliance with some previously passed laws such as the Law on Carbon Research and Exploitation. I'm just saying at first sight because there are some things in this law that really need to be looked at, which means the future of work and the role of the agency in this whole big deal. It's nice that my colleague Deur spoke positively of the agency this way, so the agency was founded in 2014, at least something good that the SDP government and the multi-annual secretary of state who's here to hold it together that she did something good. The second thing or the first thing I want to point out here is what's already mentioned, and that's synchronising business in the space planning section. So we heard here from the secretary of state he made it very clear that the agency is in this sense the initiator of certain changes in spatial plans in line with the requirements of strategic projects in the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons, which we in principle support and it is not problematic. The other part of the process that we in the SDP have problem with is also the adoption of the Law on the Research and Exploitation of Carbons, which is that there is a government that is particularly entitled by the Constitution to take care of spatial planning, which is why the ministry of jurisdiction appears, a government that arbitrations. When I say that, I mean specific cases where it happened, so in which a certain solution has been imposed regarding changing spatial plans which is not good, which is not good, and I would like to say these things in more detail, and in accordance with our request for the adoption of the previous law, and also that these things are really defined as the sequence of events. There's something we've also, let's say as a government, I think that's the first time we've defined it that way, and that's strategic development projects. If we put these projects into strategic development projects then we also get the government's legitimacy to play a slightly greater role in solving these things and also in spatial planning. After all, there is a state spatial plan, it is brought by the Parliament after a broad public debate. Therefore, the Parliament can also in some way be a very important factor because there is indeed, there are all parties, there is a position, there is an opposition that will certainly analyse it here in the debate in some way to see whether it is acceptablely wider or not. So much for that. So, I would like to make this a little bit more detailed on the procedure from the initiative to the adoption of certain changes in spatial plans where local self-government and people living in a certain area where these projects should be implemented. The second point I want to mention today which I have to say sounded a little strange, and no one mentions it today and no secretary of state in the introduction, it is to trust an energy entity based in the Republic of Croatia specialising in the provision of storage, storage of mandatory oil and oil products in the facilities, beware of the property of the agency. So, I would agree if the initiative were to support projects that are going towards the expansion of oil storage capacity, however, that we are renting management with some non-existent at this point the agencies themselves, which is very strange to me. So the question to me is, of course, you're waving your head right now, but I'm probleming this so that at some next chance of talking here, you can explain to us what's going on. So whoever can fit in here by me is only Janaf and Janaf, and today he's doing these jobs, he's got some of the storage facilities that the agency uses and pays Janaf's services for the use of storage facilities, but now it's a question of whether it's Janaf or if it's some private firm maybe tomorrow because it doesn't say that it's a public firm, a public company owned by a state-owned company. That's what it's all about, is that, and we need that clarification anyway, so that something we wouldn't really want to get through here. Not for me in the SDP or the opposition, but for all of us, to see how this process takes place in this part as well. And now you see directly about the fact that I'm still not clear to the end and again I'm asking the Secretary of State to explain it is the question of achieving a part of the income that is being re-invited. So these revenues are, so the revenues from the reserve manipulation are the revenues of the state budget and here is the prescribed purpose of using these funds. However, it is very important that when these funds are used to know which direction they are heading. And again, the question arises whether these funds will ultimately be the means to pay for the services of a company called in this law by an energy entity based in the Republic of Croatia to carry out all the jobs they will carry out, and de facto when you watch what JANAF is doing, JANAF is doing all that, all of that. All that is stated here as a legitimate cost that will finance from the part of the revenue that is realised, through manipulation, in a positive sense manipulation means selling and replacing to say and renewing oil and oil products. Here's another question I wanted to potential here anyway. And you see, in the end, I wouldn't have a problem if some things were operating today and this is just sanctioning those things, if that's what it is. I don't know, so I can't read that conclusion from this bill, but I'd like to ask you again for an explanation. The problem is if this is creating some basis for this kind of activity, and where these things I mentioned earlier are not clearly, clearly defined. You see, this is something that better people in the energy sector in Croatia could be troubled by really whether it's okay, it's not okay, what is the role of JANAF, which is the role of potential perhaps some private entities that also have their headquarters in Croatia and that have the capacity possible for storage to see how things are, how things are. Here, I think these are the key things and let's say the green thing that I'd like to point out here, and I'd like to ask you, of course, that the agency might be a little tighter there and take some steps. This is the fulfillment of certain investor obligations, it is clear which investors, large investors in the research and exploitation sector in Croatia are either oil or gas. So, especially in the recovery, I would say the rig after they left, so leaving the exploitation that we have some sort of orderly, arranged reports annually to see if it's working enough like the last example of this rig on the Adriatic. So what's the name of Ivana D or something like that, let's see what's been done there in the last few months or I don't know how many months have passed since that haia. Is it rehabilitated, whether they are protected, so above all, the environment, the sea in that area and of course whether there is any danger to our people from that aspect. That's just what I'm saying as an example that the agency, and through this business that is defined in the domain as a job in the domain of the agency, would give adequate attention to that, too. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49509	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the promoter, the respected State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development, Ivo Milatic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49510	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Parliamentarians and MPs, sir, Mr. Greek, I am obliged to intervene immediately so that this law does not now turn out to be introduced by some new newspaper, something that is now brand new, and in fact in this part of which there has been a particular debate on, about the facilities owned by the agency clearly here I have to say from this pay phone, our agency has no facilities to store oil and oil derivatives, it has never had them. The truth God was an initiative out there somewhere from the beginning of the founding of the Hande to make in Brigins a serious, serious capacity for it. It gave up because it's logical to give up because it was too expensive, it's easier to simply rent capacities. In Croatia, we are using a public competition to make it clear that we are being contacted by those who have the capacity. It's like you said Janaf is clearly practically everything. There's an INA right behind it, and there's something in small amounts of Crodux and ATT in the plates. So these are the four entities now in Croatia that are certified, qualified to do all of this. Our intensity as an agency that as far as we go, to exclusively use the most modern, greenest and safest capacities. It's what you see in JANAF what's newly built. So about the dilemma being gone, so every warehouse comes first in a public tender, when we get it in the sense that we have a company with which we contracted it, then we go to the purchase of a derivative or a renewal of a derivative. What you said about revenues here is clear, the agency has 2 sources of revenue, a direct budget and a budget in terms of its own resources, and it serves in fact to renew and manipulate with, oil and oil derivatives, and that means that when you sell, say, diesel that has its own timeline, it is the income of the state budget but the dedicated passage of the state budget that is again used to buy a new diesel for or some new product to buy for the renewal and filling of supplies. So all of these incomes are both clear and written in the state budget and their purpose and everything else is well known. As for the spatial plan and what you mentioned once again, our intensity is well mentioned strategic projects, that this is the way, but since you also know how a strategic project is defined, a strategic project to send a strategic project, the main and basic prerequisite is for this project to be in the spatial plan. From here, our intensity as an agency, that by helping these potential projects to the maximum, we are going in a direction that as far as possible, space-planned documentation can be obtained so that potential investors, concessionaries of our geothermal potentials and clearly, hydrocarbons can work through their strategic project to do the whole part. So I kind of think I've explained that to you right now, I hope what you might have had some dilemmas.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49511	Thank you. We have two replicas, the first respected Greek representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49512	... Excuse me, thank you, Mr. Vice President. [[Specially enabled.]] Mr. Secretary of State, so this first part, of course, I understand that, is procedure and about what works today. However, when you put into the law that this energy entity is likely to be the one that I figured out of you in the future, it will perform mandatory stockpiling services, in the facilities and ownership of the agency, that means that the agency has some kind of plan. So, you've confirmed my thesis that at this point the agency has no capacity, so you're planning to inhabit those capacities in some future, to invest in them, who invests, probably if they're going to be owned by the agency and then run by someone else. Is this a public-owned or private-owned company, I'm wondering, is it allowed to be a private-owned company?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49513	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49514	So it's left as a possibility that if we happen to have all the property, let's say that if it were, that it wouldn't be too much, then it would be logical to put someone in charge of it, clearly according to the legal procedures, contracts, and all of that. If, now I understand what you're asking me, it means it, but as far as ownership and our idea is concerned, it doesn't have it, so it's just the possibility of the law if it happens and if we have such a similar situation in any way that it's pre-predicted, but now it's gone and that's pretty much what we know for sure because that's the situation right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49515	The next replica is the esteemed representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49516	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, we discussed when there was a law on the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons and we are now discussing the problem of spatial planning. It's a problem that bothers you. Problems where you have problems and investors don't end up having the right entry or the right situation. You have an obligation to help your investors and that's your job and everything. But this problem that's bothering you, I'm sure you won't be able to solve it in a way that you've built into your law because it's all written together in the Law of Spatial Planning, this isn't any newspaper. The ingenuity of local self-government units, regionally, for the adoption of spatial plans, if one municipality does not wish to have carbon exploitation in its space, there can be the best possible finding, there is not a single instrument that it can have. But it's another problem. The problem is the relationship between research and exploitation. It's something to solve but not this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49517	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49518	Oh, thank you. I think we understand, just every time everyone talks. We simply have with this law and now with this previous law and with this law, we have given ourselves the opportunity to actively engage with respect to what you're saying, that we are aware that all our activity can happen on the ground that it will not succeed because the power of the flames has units of local self-government but I would like to see the explanations of these units of local self-government when we, in scientific and any other sense, professional and elaborate certain situations, then reject us and say we will not do so and by still calculating which is a potential benefit for that community and then explain to our citizens why they refused us. But we're with this law able to do it and clearly, local self-government will say it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49519	Thank you very much. We are now moving on to individual debates and will be the first to speak to the esteemed representative of Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49520	Thank you very much, esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed State Secretary with his associates, colleagues and colleagues. In early 2021, we passed the Law on the Research and Exploitation of Hydrocarbons and what today is in the debate is in compliance with this law and there is nothing to add or subtract. The topic that was when the debate on the law I mentioned and the topic today is the topic of spatial planning. The spatial planning is the way in which spatial plans determine the areas for the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons, apparently tormenting the Agency, is obviously the problem and they have decided to place it as a particular emphasis in the law that has already been passed, and also in this Law. As I now said in the replica of the Secretary of State, the problem they have cannot be solved in a way that you put it in law, it must be solved in another way. What exactly am I trying to say? We have a law on spatial order that clearly states that anyone can give an initiative to amend and supplement the spatial plan. Changing and supplementing the spatial plan are not wishes and greetings. Similarly, it states that all bodies with public authority are obliged to give their data in the process of making and adopting new spatial plans or amending and supplementing existing, even, even moreover, those who are the holder of the plans, to all these addresses, send a question about whether you have something. But in the case of exploitation, the following problem exists in hydrocarbon research and exploitation. You have an investigation field. These research fields are defined by the county's spatial plans and should not be defined at a lower level and they are large, and then after research it becomes an exploitation field that is smaller than what you've explored, so very simple. You're investigating here, you see where the potentials are,.../incomprehensible/... or exploitation fields are much smaller, and for that you have to have a change and addition of the spatial plan or go into the development of a new spatial plan. What is missing for Croatia at the moment is a state spatial plan still missing by the law which came into force in 2014 and 2013, respectively, in '14. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Every year, the state space plan moves a little bit. The state spatial plan should regulate what is the intervention of interest to the state. This state spatial plan should define what research fields these are and where exploitation fields can be developed beyond that, because in our country, Croatia has defined itself, since we have spatial planning, and we have spatial planning for many years, not for sectoral but integrally. Sectoral means that each sector would plan its own, sectorally it would mean that you plan yours, that the roads plan their own, that the railways plan their own. Integratedly it means that everyone plans their part, but we unite through a spatial plan at the state level that is not there, the county all, all 20 counties + The City of Zagreb has its own spatial plans. All 555 municipalities, i.e. if there is a City of Zagreb, 556, have their own spatial plans and you have some in these spatial plans, you already have something planned. Likewise, now we're doing the following thing, when we get into the environmental impact assessment, then one part of the environmental impact assessment says, data from the spatial documentation. And the investor, when it is in the environmental impact assessment, already knows where it is inconsistencies with the spatial plan and where possibly this harmonisation should be made, but we should never forget, therefore, with us constitutional law, units of regional or local self-government, have the right to manage and plan their space. And that in other words means no one, nor can nor should they impose any solution on the local self-government unit, nor must that unit plan it in this way. But if the state recognizes its interest, and recognizes, if the state recognizes its interest in hydrocarbons, and recognizes, then the level at which the state should say it, it has already said it through the Spatial Development Strategy, it should say it on the state spatial plan. Because that pyramid hierarchy where you have to respect the spatial plan of a higher level is that. At the moment the state brings forward a spatial plan, to you these provisions, defined like this. It won't even be necessary. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49521	Thank you very much. We have multiple replicas, the first respected representative of Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49522	Thank you very much, colleague Mrak-Taritash, I think you spoke well and identified the problem of the state spatial plan. In fact, we often talk about decentralisation, we often talk about lowering power to lower levels, you're talking about that no one can impose units of local self-government, or when we talk about a spatial plan, impose some solutions, but the state can't even impose any solutions when something of particular national interest, and the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons certainly is. What I'm really interested in and what I'm asking as a rhetorical question to you, but also to the general public, and who's in the interest of not bringing this central state plan, why isn't it being brought? Is there any objective reason not to bring it or, as always, there are some hidden interests, someone is hunting in a blur, so it's easier to catch something in a blur than if there's order, if there's something constantly rebuilding, planning and supplementing?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49523	Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49524	Thank you very much for asking Mr. Hajdukovic. That's the million-dollar question. I am absolutely certain, and at this point that the interest of the state should be to bring a state spatial plan. So the state does not plan construction areas, the state through the state spatial plan says, the interests of this country are these great infrastructure corridors, the interests of this country are exploration of hydrocarbons, if we talk about it, the interests of this country are large economic zones there, there, there. I've asked us all a question several times from this pay phone. Imagine if one investor came in today and said I want to make three children's toys factories, give me three locations, but I want to make a relationship with the state, let the state give me three locations where it is. You know what they'd do? Put your shoulders down. It's supposed to be an interest, but every time The amendment of the law extends the deadline. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49525	Thank you very much. The next replica is a respected representative of Pavic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49526	Dear MPs, today when we listened to Mr. Secretary's opening statement, we also heard that the Agency would actually have the opportunity to come up with some of its proposals for spatial plans and actually act proactively. But for the field of exploitation, when it was determined, when the plan was made, I don't think there's anything controversial about it. But after that, building some of the objects that are connected to that exploitation field, it's left to local self-government. Now, since there is no such thing as this Central State Space Plan, the question is whether the agency will be able to influence local self-government in time and willingly bring a spatial plan for exploitation, we were specifically talking about thermal waters. If the local self-government is not ready, if this is not brought to the city council or on the municipal council in time, everything is actually waiting and falling.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49527	Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49528	Thank you very much. So, 10 years ago, we had something called "Strategy and the programme of spatial development of the Republic of Croatia". The strategy was a strategic document, and the programme changed what we today call a "state spatial plan", and now we don't have it. We would never quickly issue local and construction permits for highways in Croatia if we had not had this programme because we would have to wait for all the spatial plans of the county to change, so that changes and spatial plans of individual municipalities and that there was great will and great energy and great desire and great all of the municipalities to do so, it is a process that takes place. All states have their own state spatial plan. I am sure that there must be some things that are simple, but this plan will pass through a public debate, a public debate should be brought to the assembly, so democracy will be present.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49529	Thank you. The next replica of respected MP Vucilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49530	Thank you very much. Dear Representatives Mrak-Taritash, I think you've opened a very high-quality issue because we have strategies based on which a total of one area of Republic of Croatia is more than anticipated for hydrocarbon research. Remember the debate on the declaration of the PP "Dinara" as much as it was an initiative to single out this area, meaning from investigative actions because they are more or less through 4 areas of the total Dinarids, the overall area envisaged for research and research activities that are invasive, should not be forgotten. It is often emphasized that based on exploitation, JLS will receive generous revenues, but it is forgotten that when renewable energy sources are in question again, JLS get some revenue from such plants, so it is neither negligible nor put oil where it belongs in the 21st century.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49531	Thank you. Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49532	Thank you very much. So there's simply a topic that we often discuss and that we often mention, but it's a dead letter on paper, sustainable development. Sustainable development among other things means making a good balance between different things. Sometimes you can decide that it's incomparable to leave it the way it is, to leave nature and the way it is, that it's worth more than any activity happening here. And on the other hand, that balance you have to make, you have to decide on that balance, and the topic of spatial planning is one of the topics where it can be opened. The point of spatial planning is, in fact, to involve the public at the earliest stage that they can say what bothers them already when they adopt or develop a spatial plan. When the plan is brought in, it's too late, it's over.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49533	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative of Villa Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49534	Thank you, Vice President. Dear MPs, Mrak-Taritash, I think you're really with what you've asked the question of the interest of local self-government has guessed obviously in one real question. And I'm curious now, in many places inside this law is as well as in those additions to the Hydrocarbons Act, this is about underground gas warehouses that remain after the wells have been emptied and the possibility of the same place being a permanent disposal of carbon dioxide. What do you think will be the interest and what will be the use of these wells and whether gas companies in this sense will come sooner to what extent than to actually prepare carbon dioxide inside?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49535	Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49536	Thank you very much for asking. So there's no easy answer. We live in the country we live in, there's about 3 million and 800 of us, if this one now what we're going to have shows so much that I think we're going to be very happy and have some potentials that we have. Now the only thing we're going to recognize is these potentials, we're going to use them, or we're going to deliberately and consciously decide not to use them, and say no, we don't want it because it's more damage than good for us. It's always that benefit, and it's something that is assessed among other things through strategic environmental impact assessments and later environmental impact assessments, that benefit that it has. When they set out to assess the impact on the environment, only the plant and animal world was seen. Now it must be seen both the economic effect and the economic relationship in all of this together. And there's no easy answer. For some part of Croatia, it can only be a possibility of progress, for some not.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49537	Thank you. The next replica of the respected representative, Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49538	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, I think you're an excellent principle of this subject, we all agree that there should be state spatial plans, that local units must be involved in this whole planning and, of course, the agency has a role to play. I have come across the fact that one investment, so first of all those investigative actions, is that these investors invest as much as 50 to 150 million euros per investigative space and that investors are bound by a contract to keep it all in the state budget. After these research areas go exploiting fields and then the real interest of our country or local units would be to keep as much as possible in these environments, some estimate that some 60% of these investments remain. Well, in fact, some direct and indirect income would then go to local units and that's why it's the urgency that local units get as much involved in these spatial plans as possible so that and the domestic labour force can employ as much as possible. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49539	Honorable representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49540	Thank you very much. You've opened up a series of things in your question. Who do we all get paid from together? Not from the air, from some investors who do something, who pay taxes and everything. So the interest of both the agencies and all of us would be that investors are guided along that path in a way to protect the interests of the state, to protect the interests of the environment, nature and everything else, but also to recognize the interests of these investors. These investors are not grandma horns, these investors just have to have a clearly defined hodogram. The problem with you and why you're going with it because these investors, why you refer to the spatial plan, because you have a problem with the hodogram, because when he does research it and finds that somewhere he has the possibility of exploiting it beyond that sea, because there's no other way to define it as an exploitation field and there's problems. I'm absolutely sure the problem would be smaller when we have a state spatial plan. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49541	Thank you very much. The next debate will be respected representatives of Katarina Peovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49542	Good afternoon, everyone. First of all, this law achieves compliance with the recent amendments and additions of the Law on the Research and Exploitation of Hydrocarbons. And even though there are other questions going on here, I'd like to stay at this first point, this first one, this first question. So, the report we also got that I would point out about the work of the Agency for Hydrocarbons for 2020 and would warn about what it stands for, which is actually the purpose of that agency. So, the Hydrocarbon Agency was founded in 2014 to monitor the implementation of the contractual obligations of selected investors for the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons with the aim of protecting the interests of the Republic of Croatia. So it says in the agency's report that the Earth's energy observation is thus totaled with a renewable and non-renewable component in the interests of the Republic of Croatia. The main focus of the administration is warning and meeting actually potential investors with investment opportunities. The focus is therefore on entrepreneurship, the focus is on investing investors in and therefore renewable and non-renewable components are said to be in the interest of the Republic of Croatia. But what kind of exploitation of non-renewable energy should be spoken of in 2021? So, given that in the National Recovery and Recovery Plan, we have determined that according to the Paris Agreement, we will move to renewable energy sources by 2050, given that in February 2020 we brought the Energy Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia by 2030, with a view to even saying a little ironic, with a view to 2050 as if we can have some magic ball and see what will happen in 2050, and given that I will also warn you that the discussions that took place here when we had the Law on the Exploitation of Carbons, amendments and additions to the Law on Research and Exploitation of Carbons, where we also heard from the Secretary of State that the question is therefore whether we will really adhere to these Directives from the Paris Agreement or those instructions from the Paris Agreement, given that the amended and the updated legislation was so in some way, we will now not be able to simplify ourselves in terms of 20, so that we do not know in fact and in fact that we do not have to implement it. But it's really important that we set up and so open things, whether we're just going to follow the big ones in this now, even if we put the cards on the table, we say open ok, we're going to follow the big ones, which is the interest of us in this process, is what's useful for us to encourage investment in this area instead of saying that we invest in the production of solars, which is really economical and therefore in line with what's being declared, and also in accordance with what's being encouraged here in some way, and that's economic development in the next period. I will also say that we have passed the Energy Efficiency Act so recently, the Integrated National Energy Climate Plan of the Republic of Croatia 2021 to 2030, etc. Therefore, we are almost tragically affected by the main objectives and activities of the agency in accordance with the Law on the Research and Exploitation of Hydrocarbons because they put first the participation in the preparation, organisation, presentation in order to meet therefore these potential investors with the carbon and geothermal potentials of the Republic of Croatia, that is 1.1 of the business plan carried out by the Agency in the context of its activity or, say, making proposals for selecting the most favourable bidder. So, in other words, in 2021, we concentrate on the development of oil business. But I must warn you, we all know that the state has lost ownership of INA, the INA has weakened, the government obviously cannot force MOL to sell us shares because although INA, when we entered unnecessary privatisation, I will remind myself of being stronger than MOL in the media, is also calculating that the government is seriously considering the idea of establishing a private and would actually ask the secretary of state whether it is true, the new state companies that would be responsible for controlling the payment of concession fees and other financial obligations that companies have in the name of the concession for oil and gas research in Croatia. It means nothing from a renewable energy source. Anyway, I wonder if it's the same. put into this plan unlike previous concession agreements [[Intruder: Thank you.]] But I'm going to put that right in the replica, a specific question. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49543	We have one replica, respected representative Selak Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49544	On the basis of what you were saying, we will agree, of course, that our goal is to keep our jobs especially in the Sisak Biorefinery, but it is interesting that this recovery and recovery plan is nevertheless where this semi-private company is listed, and in public it has been circulating that information as one of those who will receive money from the state, and it is a semi-private company, we have no idea on the basis of which criteria some companies that are not exclusively state-owned will suck the money that Croatia will attract from eu funds. And on the trail of what you said earlier, I'd like to ask you after the pompous announcements of the Agency about the exploitation of the Adriatic and the failed projects, how do you comment on its placing of an emphasis or re-intention on the activation of geothermal sources for energy purposes? So, now it's supposed to be restructuring and a new plan and focus and a priority agency that hides the previous failure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49545	Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49546	So as far as Biorefinery Sisak is concerned, it is one of the two companies that is explicitly listed in the National Recovery and Resistance Plan and is really asking whether the government is now giving up this bio-refinerial plant if we have heard in the media announcements about it, i.e. a very clear transmission of information that the leading experts in the Refinery Sisak have been removed from the main and leading places, which have been able to make that transition and actually bio-refinery. The same thing you're doing in the Refinery in Rijeka where we're actually guessing that we've reached a terminal stage of giving up, a record of the development of MOL of those projects that were announced, and that's the Biorefinery in Sisak and modernization of the Refinery in Rijeka. In any case, geothermal Sources also agree that we should.../Speakers speak at the same time./... [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49547	Thank you. The next debate will be the respected representative of Tomislav Okroša. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49548	Dear Vice-President of the HS, the esteemed secretary of state with his associates. In front of us is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law establishing the Agency for Hydrocarbons. Through the work of the Parliamentary Committee on Economic and Legislative Affairs and through today's presentation of the Secretary of State, Mr Milatić, on behalf of the Proposer, has several important conclusions, and regarding the low-carbon low energy transition. Since the sale of carbon dioxide emission units and Croatia plans to receive 2.85 billion kuna over the next four years. Of these 2,85 billion kunas, 95% will be paid into the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, while the rest and 143 million kuna will be paid into the state budget to cover the costs of administering the emission trading system. Most of these nearly 2.9 billion kunas will be invested in low carbon energy transition, which includes, among other things, the use of renewable sources and replacing the use of fossil forms of energy with renewable energy sources, increasing energy efficiency, the use of advanced networks and energy storage systems as well as energy recovery of buildings. The obligation to reduce greenhouse gas emissions at EU level shall be implemented jointly by the Member States through the eu system of greenhouse gas emission trading and sector commitments outside that eu system. The target of reducing emissions to Croatia is 7% in 2030. relative to the level of emissions in 2005 But as the European Council adopted last December a new increased target by 2030, this means that Croatia's objectives will also increase, and the targets for renewable energy sources and energy efficiency could also be met. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49549	We have two replicas, the first respected representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49550	How do you comment on the State Audit report which went through the Agency’s operations and did not give a satisfactory but merely conditional opinion on financial reports, stressing that the Agency did not record revenues from administrative fees on the one hand, and on the other hand that the list of assets and liabilities was not fully published in accordance with the provisions of the Budgetary Accounting Regulation and the accounting plan?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49551	The Honorable Representative of the District.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49552	Thank you very much for asking. I'm not fully aware of that opinion, but I am convinced that the Agency for Hydrocarbons will consider all the comments and work to improve things in the next report.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49553	The next is the replica of the respected representative, Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49554	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. MP, they were talking about the revenues that should be made to the state budget and about CO2 emissions, and the large amount is directed towards the Environmental Protection Fund in order to finance green transition projects. Since you are the head of a local self-government, I believe that so far you have had the opportunity to cooperate with the Environment Fund, so I am interested in what types of projects have so far been funded by you and how many of these projects are in line with these objectives that are prescribed, which aim to make Croatia not only an important factor in the green transition but rather among those Member States that would be the leaders of the green transition?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49555	The Honorable Representative of the District.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49556	Thank you, dear MPs, for asking. I, as the head of the Dubrava Municipality, had the privilege that my unit of local self-government, together with the City of Zagreb, was highlighted as a positive example, and I could have set up an educational workshop in front of the Environmental Protection Fund, where we introduced a completely replaced lighting with a new ice-efficient lighting, and we introduced monitoring points that signalled at these points that the level of noise increase and the level of air pollution increase was reported, so it informs us of the system when in place an increased level of air pollution. The fund was also funded by electric vehicles and as I had the opportunity to see, a little more than 700 and a few million kunas will be invested in the regular period.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49557	Thank you very much. The next debate will be of the respected representative Goran Ivanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49558	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State with Associates. I'm going to use these few minutes, and what I've had in my replica to ask is, of course, geothermal sources. Geothermal sources are something that, of course, is still in some kind of bandages, something that hasn't been put into operation yet, and I'm going to look back at a place that's practically placed in my place, it's Bizovac. Bizovac is out there at the end of the 1960s, in the early 1970s geothermal sources were discovered, a total of 4 of them and since then here, Bizovac has water that has a temperature of 96 degrees somewhere and in part in this touristic sense or healing sense has managed to do something, but beyond that it did not work out. What makes me happy in these amendments to the law, which is what the Secretary of State said, is that the establishment of a development society will be possible to foster and develop potential in research and exploitation of geothermal waters. I believe that the units of local self-government may not be sufficiently professional or fiscally prepared to eventually put their geothermal resources into operation and what is in our favor and, of course, I am speaking more marketingly here in order to encourage the leaders of the local self-government units that have these potential in their field, to somehow get into their ears and to start working more and more intensively on this, because in the end, here is the plan by 2030 and 2050 where this harmful energy needs to be significantly reduced and we need to flirt with pure energies. Of course, it's something that's not easy or easy to do in the work, what's said, it takes a lot of course and knowledge, it takes a lot and money, but again, I think we're on a good track this time that we're getting help from agencies that are exclusively involved in what I'm talking about, and that can be important to the local self-government units, of course, both regional and regional, but also to investors who want to invest in these forms of healthy energy, or not harmful energy, and this time I think that this framework when it's read here and when it's compared to what we have on the ground, I think we're getting a good background and I'm saying, it's going to force us into the time that we're in 2030, because it's not so far and not so far away from 2050, at the end when everything is considered. I'm going to go back a little bit to this Bizovac that I think should be used in any case as maybe one pilot project in Slavonia, Baranja and Srijema where we have a lot of geothermal sources and simply show that in practice what we often talk about can happen and somewhere remains always behind us and in fact it may never have happened. Secondly, as regards oil exploitation also in Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem, two major fields were in our Slavonia, these are Djeletovci and Benicans who are now at the end of the capacity, absolutely it is production at a level of 10 or 15% compared to what was in the early 1970s and late 1970s, and there we have the possibility of just putting these capacities on the table, whether it's a storage site or maybe gas or everything that goes into the context of what these changes or the establishment of this agency are talking about, so hopefully in the time ahead we'll really start to think about it, not only think about it, but also to act, and here I see an opportunity and for the economic recovery of the end from which I come from, so here may finally be our natural potentials that are often just kind of stressed when they're talking about them, and when putting it's in the same function, nothing happens. So here, my support will also be here as a parliamentary representative to all local self-government leaders who have such potentials in their field, that here in cooperation with both the agency and the resolution ministries, we start working on this project and say in a dozen or twenty years we have succeeded and that what has made our end better, richer, and that, ultimately, someone has remained in our area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49559	Thank you. We've got a whole series of replicas. The first is Honored Representative Selak Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49560	Do not turn out that the members of the opposition are reading the findings of the State Audits of the State where HDZ is headed and HDZ is not familiar with them, I will repeat the question and give you a chance to answer whether you are familiar with the findings of the State Audit on the business of this agency and can you comment on it, especially this part in which the conditional opinion has been given?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49561	Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49562	Thank you very much. I can't. I can't comment on it, I haven't gone so deeply into that scale, but as far as the findings of the State Audit are concerned, they as well as the units of local self-government, and for everything that goes along with it, give their opinion, so of course everything that's written in the report of the audit, it's probably made up of the relevant facts and the duty of the agency to correct it in the time that is ahead, but I can't say that I'm familiar with what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49563	The next is the replica of the respected MP Vucilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49564	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Ivanovic, out of many good examples, you have managed to find one disastrous because you and I both know well that the hotel has been closed for several years and these beginnings of health tourism have been eliminated in the meantime. But my question is this, and I'm asking you as a former mayor, so the Osijek-Baranja County recently signed a million-dollar geothermal potential research contract, did the competent officials first go to the data center and see if there are any data they now want to collect from these investigations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49565	Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49566	Thank you. First on this part about Bizovac. I didn't want to talk about the hotel in Bizovac, anything, I was talking about the sources that were first placed in the area of Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem, that was what I said in the early '70s and that's where I see potential. If it will continue through tourism, whether through plastics, greenhouses, heating surrounding places that gravity towards Bizovac, it is already something to be discussed. As far as Osijek-Baranja County is concerned, the Osijek-Baranja County has made a shift here when it comes to geothermal sources, and just knowing that this will be happening all the things we talk about these days in the assembly and I hope that they took all the facts and data that were available when they created this strategy of putting geothermal potentials in the area of our county into office and as far as I know, it was a profession on it, so I can't talk about the details now, I don't know them, but I hope they used everything at their disposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49567	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49568	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague, you mentioned the geothermal sources that exist in your area, and so did my hometown of Karlovac. It's still potential that hasn't been used, but surely in this time ahead we need to use it and sure that those JLS, especially less, don't have enough potential to do it themselves. We in the town of Karlovac have also set up a company that is essentially dealing with those first steps so that we can even get into a situation so that tomorrow we can eventually withdraw funds from the European funds and move towards a serious realization of the project. And I'm sure the agency will be even more available to the JLS in this future time, and I think it's the only good way to help the JLS to make it really successful. And I don't think the plans will be a problem in that segment because the units are in the interest of making it possible for their citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49569	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49570	I agree. I don't think spatial plans will be an obstacle to putting these potentials in, after all, into exploitation. What's important is we have to learn from these other people's experiences. I've had opportunities to be in Germany in Bad Prozingen, it's the largest geothermal spa in their province. Good experience, it's not at all light technology when it comes to dropping that temperature, everything that's negative in that water, stripping, and the Japanese have, for example, copied the entire technology of Bad Presovingen and they've become, of course, two of the city's friends where they managed to build 16 of these capacities in Japan. So, there's already a brain, there's technology, and I think it's just for us to implement it. And what you said without the help of the state, without the profession, the small units will never be able to function, let's be honest.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49571	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative, Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49572	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You spoke of using geothermal waters, which we all know are mostly used in spas, but not as a source of energy. Only few farmers have recognized it as a good model through which they can improve their agricultural production, and in particular develop plastic and glass production. And you're right when you're saying that there would be an important broad support for both states and local self-government because an individual can hardly do it alone in all administrative demands and incursions to fight in fact that such a single project is realised. We have in Sisak-Moslavina County a Topusco spa that works well, but we would like that energy that goes somewhere in the air to be used precisely in agricultural production. So what do you think it is possible to do to minimise the current administrative barriers and to encourage farmers to use this kind of energy?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49573	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49574	Well, I don't think we should, but we do. If we want to produce, be competitive when it comes to plastic and greenhouse production, then we have to reduce all those input impulses that burden the price of the product at the end. I think it's the gas energy we get from these geothermal sources, it'll certainly be cheaper than some other energy, and I don't think there's any obstacle at all. After all, let's be honest, the little JLS when they wanted to do something about it they'd already met the first problem, it was INA. It's simply impossible to solve without the help of the state. I don't think we're gonna make it, but if we just stay on seeing the potential then nothing special is going to happen, and what you've emphasized agriculture can certainly be preceded by heating up everything that they are now heating up and paying dearly, then of course our products may not be as competitive as they could possibly be.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49575	Thank you. The next replica of the respected MP, Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49576	Dear Vice President of the Assembly, fellow respected. One of the Agency's tasks is to ensure a balance between the energy and environmental policies of the Republic of Croatia. We heard something about these energy processes of geothermal sources, but we didn't hear anything about the agency's environmental policies. Can you tell us what happened on this particular issue in ensuring balance? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49577	Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49578	I certainly can't tell you, give you examples if I don't know them, but I think an institutional agency as proposed here will have all the levers and all the instruments when it comes to environmental protection. Of course we have to look out for the environment, the environment is something that needs to be left for future generations, and I think that right now may be the biggest challenge. One is our wishes, and the other may be the opportunities especially of what you were talking about, but here I think what I was able to read finally wants to institutionally set up this whole story that will not then be partially run by the leaders of local or regional self-government but will be guided by a profession that will have all these instruments at its disposal, and these are the resolute ministries that deal with it and that absolutely know everything about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49579	The next replica of the respected MP, Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49580	Thanks for the exposure. What you've given somewhere is one optimistic enough view of this development potential and you mention mostly geothermal water, but what's in the Agency's task is itself largely determined by the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons. So what we're asking is why we're building our development on something that we're actually leaving, shouldn't we be talking more about renewable energy sources and developing renewable technologies in this development potential, if we're talking about economic growth? So when we talk about economic growth now is the right time to really invest in these technologies for renewable energy sources, for example solars. We had a solar plant in Novigrad, but our solar plants are not competitive with foreign Chinese products, so the state should stress and invest in renewable energy sources right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49581	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49582	I agree, of course, that renewable energy sources are what stimulates the whole world and if we talk about global warming and everything that awaits us. And we also had a solar panel factory in Valpo, which couldn't find enough people because they weren't competitive with the products you're talking about, but I think time makes us think about it, not just thinking about it, but putting it into function. For a time it was wind parks, wind power plants, today it is said that solarists may be much better, much faster, much more cost-effective in that sense, much more possibly cleaner when it comes to protecting the environment and I think that all that is said here should be well interpreted and simply start with Croatia being what is in this draft by 2050.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49583	There is also a respected representative, Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49584	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivanovic. Now I'm asking you as a member of the ruling Slavonia coalition. You were talking about Bizovac, and I'm actually curious now whether the National Recovery and Resistance Plan can somehow withdraw funds for the development of Bizovac as a centre that has geothermal water that would serve both rehabilitation and physical therapy not only for health tourism but also in cooperation for our citizens in cooperation with HZZO and Croatian defenders from the Homeland War who have a lot in Slavonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49585	Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49586	Yes, Bizovac is now, and I'm going to start from this last thing you said, Bizovac, and now he's working on it, we have two basically hospitals, one that belongs to KBC Osijek, and the other is a private investment that also has a health care unit that works with both the defenders and all the others. The National Recovery and Resistance Plan as far as I have been able to read it in those figures has positions precisely for these green energies, has positions through the agricultural programme of course and through the protection of water. So, I'm sure we'll find here and we need to find a financial space here to finally build a pilot project in Croatia and let's say we did this this should be an example for the whole of Croatia and then I think it's a solved situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49587	Thank you. The next debate will be a respected representative of Villa Matula. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49588	Thank you, Vice President. Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I agree with my esteemed colleague Ivanovic, that Bizovac is a good example, but we have heard here from a fellow secretary of state that the issue of talks on the issue of counterpart Mrak Taritas is what about a local self-government that, for example, does not want drilling wells or oil or gas, it seems, however, that the gas remains. We've already asked that question why these concessions are given until after the 1930s because now it's already '21, we've explained it all, but there's one fundamental fig in the pocket that wants to be explained with wisdom that it should be taken into account, and it seems to me that this wisdom is actually one cunning. Not the wisdom to insist, to keep that possibility from finding out who knows what large amount of oil, who knows what amounts of gas, and then Europe lets us be the last to do it anyway. Now here's what I'm saying on purpose. This is a completely conflicting scenario. But let's go back to this particular Biscuit question that you mentioned well. When we talk about it the same thing should be said that the policy of this government is so unusual that there are geothermal princes there too, so let's say I don't know how much you know the fact that in this area, the price of electricity, we already talked about it 40 euros per megawatt, now, the average incentive price of Croatian renewables, renewable energy sources per megawatt is 120 euros. We understand, if this investor is drilling, this, what, and all, that this one, however, has, what he gets that he drills geothermal energy and deals with it, he gets 208 euros per megawatt, 208. And all right, now let's imagine this one small environment, which is why I understand that they don't have experts, but the Agency, HEP, so what isn't a public firm, or public institution, that has a lot of experts? Why do these experts really have to give a private investor who risks, you can't think what, and you know those results. In 2019, the company GEOEN, owned by Dragan Jurilj, made 101 million kunas of income, of which it had only 39 million expenditures. Well, that's really inconceivable, that profit rate, that's inconceivable. Well, I don't know what kind of Hutch companies, those who have and chase, they don't have that kind of profit rate. With that for 2020 they had 120 million kuna profits. Why can't we imagine that the local community could have an energy cooperative and there are people working there, of course, can be a spa, can be greenhouses, but it can also be 100 degrees, as much as you're saying, it's impossible that this disaster that happened to all the fruit trees in Croatia this year can't be bridged anyway. It can, because they're also working in that direction that when those fighting nets are already going, and from everything, there can be just so much heat in it. These people who live there and try to do something, they can get from those 20 degrees, how far from below it comes is enough to spread it around, from schools and around, but also from homes and to allow people to maybe by winter just a little bit have to add to the heating and keep it in Slavonia to stay down and carry it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49589	Thank you. We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49590	Here, thanks for the exposure. What I'm interested in is why the state agency, like this Agency, would not really target its priorities, objectives and its purpose towards thus increasing renewable energy sources, but also some share of local communities and states, in such energy sources. First of all, if we take into account, when you read this report from 2020, the Agency, that everything is directed at exactly what you're saying, it means to private investors who have to create a huge, really extra profit. That's one question. The second question, didn't we mix up the years in these strategies and plans of national, national plans? Isn't it that we don't know that in 2021, given what we have signed and given the Paris Conventions, given what we have in mind with renewable energy sources?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49591	Honorable representative of Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49592	... I'm out. [[Specially enabled.]] Uh, I agree with you and yes, sometimes it really seems to me that there is some plan, some wet dreams about maybe a future Kuwait that might happen, that we are the last Kuwait and that we have the last right and that we have a lot of money, that we are Sheiki, I simply can't understand it differently. Speaking of which, it's about the profession. It's about experts. And at the same time 560 most important of our experts who, not only are on, from Ruđer Boskovic and around, and who are outside cooperating, 560 people have signed that alarming state of climate change, our top doctors and doctors, connected to the whole world, and this government has completely ignored it. Totally.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49593	The next replica is the respected representative Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49594	... There he is, thank you. [[Specially enabled.]] Dear colleague, I see that you are the advocate of this, of a socialist paradigm, so that everything may be in state property, or local property. I must remind you that this is not the meaning and jurisdiction of local self-government, above all, that it deals with energy production. We don't need to be afraid of private capital or economics, they do, we need society, I want to tell you, we have today's utility companies in our local self-government units dealing with the supply of heat, but investment in energy production is very expensive. So our companies dealing with the supply of heat to citizens are not fiscally such that they can deal with it, so I think it's the interest of all and local self-government units to have private capital come and invest in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49595	Honorable representative of Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49596	Yeah, I'm not afraid of a colleague, a respected colleague, I'm not afraid of private equity. No, but I don't see why, I'm telling you these incomprehensible rates of return, inconceivable, that's what I'm talking about, the difference in year.../incomprehensible/... it's something that's not.../incomprehensible/... it's de facto not a risk and I don't see why a public firm or an energy cooperative couldn't participate in such a thing, e, but there's no reason in that energy cooperative that local fruitmakers don't get involved, local vegetables, all together. Yeah, if we had an energy, ethical bank that doesn't insist on chasing, I don't know what profits, especially when those interest rates are standing, then it would be possible for the entire community to be not that respectable individual who grabs and builds castles, why? For what?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49597	Now, finally, on behalf of the promoter, the Honorable State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development, Ivo Milatić, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49598	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable parliamentary deputies and MPs. I thank you for the debate on this law and, as it seems, I am obliged to finally say a few sentences to this all that has been said, so I will start from the beginning. From the end, I'm sorry. Reverend Matula, all you said was in one way correct, you just shut up a lot. So you said that the jet gets so much, the difference between plus and minus is that much, but you forgot one thing. So that you would have built a geothermal power plant of Brick which is the capacity of cca I mean somewhere 16 MW, you had to invest about 50 million kuna per MW, that means 750 million kuna you had to invest in that facility and in order for you to return that facility, you have to earn income, pay taxes to the Croatian state and repay credit for that CAPEX from that income. So, the theme, it's already here, in this esteemed home, was once the same theme on this same power plant, so it's like the cost of paying back the loan. I mean, I've graduated from high school economics and college economics, so I know how math works. So, the difference between 101 and 39 is, the loan of the sea and clearly, some rest for that owner is present but it's not this awesome thing you're talking about and now that Croatian citizens and citizens are listening to it now, it turns out it's a crazy country that gave it, so imagine that this is the truth that you're talking about and it doesn't make any sense. Well, that would have been exposed a long time ago. I mean, it's simple, it's the logic of a renewable source is to make up for the state support that difference in funding that just can't be replaced by a market economy because there's no market economy going to be one day when the price of electricity on the market comes into that situation that can be covered and you know that this is not the case now and that very, very nearly it won't be the case and if we want to ic on the energy transition, then we're going to go through the only one that we can and that's how we co-finance an excellent source of renewable electricity that is sustained, which is continuous, which works 365 days a year, which is good for balancing electricity, balancing systems and again that will be threatened by renewable sources that are not stable, the type of solar and wind, so this is good. And that's why it was financed in such a way, clearly, there would have been a partial agreement with you, that in those times when it was coming, that it might have been more generous but I can't answer it, this administration, there's some administrations that have done it before, even some administrations and on this side, which I don't call anyone, people have done it in good faith, we today, when there are new premium models for geothermals, pay attention, it's going to be less published models, but it's still going to have to be issued to cover that physicality. The fact that we will be sheiks, that we will be with figs in our pocket, that is so interesting, but the fact that Croatia today produces 18% of its oil needs, oil derivatives, every responsible state that thinks little of itself, which makes sure that there can always be some crises, some disturbances and some serious situations, and the state, in this regard, Croatia, which is one of the few states that still has potential in hydrocarbons, will clearly think about keeping that kind of production and this steep fall, and that is the whole idea of why we went for them for ten years to find new inventions eventually. That we'll be sheiks, that it'll be a spectacle, we're all aware of that, but we've also made such laws that in case it's found, that for local self-government and state budget it'll be hundreds of percent more generous than it's ever been before. And that's the subject. As far as I'm concerned, twice, I'm thinking of a renewed opinion of the State Audit and finding. Then you'd beg to read the report and tell the truth. According to the report, the agency received an unconditional opinion on its business, meaning it received an unconditional opinion on the whole business and received a conditional opinion on financial operations in terms of two items that it was wrongly signed on. And now it turns out like that agency, she's doing something wrong there. I'm not saying, I can agree with you here, that I'm not happy that it's unconditionally thought and on that small part, but when I say something, let's just say it's the way it is. So, she got an unconditional opinion on her business and she didn't get an unconditional opinion on financial business, and when you look at the find, it's God's fault, it's all on the Internet, it's all on the Internet State Audit, and everyone can read it, and you'll see that it's a "fraction" or a failure. It is a failure that has arisen, but which will be removed and which is not essentially something terrible now to make drama as if this agency is doing something terribly wrong. As for MP Peović and her observation as if we had said something, so it will be like this, anyway, we are still insisting on what I just said, the interest of the Republic of Croatia is that in this hydrocarbon section we continue as long as we can, and I said here in the debate when it was the Law on hydrocarbons when we were insisting on this esteemed representative from We can! in order to break up well, which is clearly legitimate for you and your position and demand and I understand why you say it, we have said why we as a member of the EU would have made a precedent, so if the EU decides that these contracts will not be interrupted only in Croatia, it will be interrupted in other EU countries, so I guess there will be some mechanism that the EU will compensate those Member States for what these potentially damaged investors are tomorrow to compensate for. And logically, we went by that logic that the success of any such projects was linked to the 30th year. You can't tell anyone I'll give you a concession for exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons at age 15. When we're not Norway, when we have a model, you investigate, you buy, you pay, you take the risk, you find the good, and we'll make it up to you, if you don't find anyone, you spend it all on your own, the state owes you nothing. Well, it's not that simple to tell someone at 15, who's going to answer that? Nobody. Then we can say right now we interrupt everything because when you say we interrupt the 30s it's the code we said now we interrupt everything. So that's just how it is. As for Mrs. O'Donnell's repeated insistence. Anke Mrak-Taritash about spatial plans. Well, here's what makes the Croatian public quite clear. When it started in 2014 to set up the Agency for Hydrocarbons, otherwise moving into this hydrocarbon story, there was one, one, one, as we would say under the quotes "jealousy" or whatever this part is about mining, or when we talk about the exploitation of mineral raw materials with quarrys and the constant association of quarrys and research fields. And then the ministry headed by the Parliament's representative was Mrak-Taritash and left that topic that one investigative space, it was clearly listed in all the spatial plans and would not have solved anything here, he would have reassessed the investigative premises. It cannot establish research fields because the research space is one huge space, and the research field is created after seismics and all others are located in a narrow area where a possible discovery could occur. And we're forced today, which is what I think, if you ask me, and here I am, and a colleague of the Krpan who's been in this business all his life, it's pretty pointless that all this research field has to be drawn into a spatial plan, but that's how we've defined ourselves as a state, and now we have these problems and that gymnastics with local self-government that needs to be written. In my view, this should be entered in the implementing provisions and exactly how and how it comes to establish the field of investigation after which it is... but we are following here today, and that is why, under quotes, we "torture ourselves with local self-government" that as soon as the first seismics are created and the research situations are launched, that we should move on as soon as there is no problem, there will be no problem later, for which, because then we need to get the right permits for any bits to be made there. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] That would be about it. As far as taking care of CO2 and possibly the dilemma about it. So for 20 years, INA has stored in structures in Žutica in Ivanića CO2, and in the last 5-6. It is working intensively, and we have left one of the few countries in the EU that, which already has a rather developed know-how and we have left in the National Recovery Plan, left one opportunity to support such projects because we think it is good and gives it a future. Clearly, we do not expect that the impact of CO2 in the future will result in some terrible, improvement in the sense of hydrocarbon exploitation because our hydrocarbons are in these structures where CO2 is practically finished. But that Croatia has one terrible potential for carbon footprints has because we've had a lot of praise in the past, a lot of exploitation, and we have a lot of these structures that could be filled. Why shouldn't Croatia take that right for themselves and try to fight within the EU to get some serious money like this, that tomorrow it is impressed because it won't be a global reduction in CO2 that only solves in all other situations. One of the serious situations will be the impression, the carbon footprint in the structures. When we talk about, about everything else here, what's been said, clearly, that I've announced before, I'm speaking specifically about these new regulations that go very nearly to this esteemed home, which is energy communities, aggregates, citizen involvement and everything else. Clearly, our commitment as a government and as a state and ministry in charge of energy is an absolutely renewable story. It's not a topic at all, that's what we're talking about here today, about the Agency for Hydrocarbons and Hydrocarbons, and that's what we're only talking about in this part that's just there and it's going to be there for a while, but we're just thinking tomorrow about what's going to be there and what direction Croatia is going to be renewable and actually be the leader in this part. We are confident that all of our strategic documents will be fulfilled, you will see laws that will come before this home that are operational, that lead to all projects in renewables as quickly as possible, more efficient as possible, because we are aware that through the NPO in which we have predicted no less or less in our work, 3 billion kunas for investment in the network, for the improvement of the electricity system in Croatia, which is the primary task of taking over future energy plants that will be renewable and taking over that electricity in order to install a minimum of 2500 MW of new capacities in Croatia by 2030, and we are convinced that this will be around 3500 and perhaps more, simply that is our priority and that I am absolutely safe in this home, we all agree on that, and in that name, I just want to say that this agency, one good agency, this agency for your information, this agency provides about 40% of the income of Janaf, means that someone who would not only think that Jafinaphine lives on some of the refinement. 40% of Janaf's income comes from this agency, because it is our strategic goal and we are very close to having all our physical goods in Croatia, a little bit more and in Germany, according to the interstate agreement, some small quantities are still there, they are only there because in Croatia we have no place to put it. Not because we hold it out of value in Germany, we simply have not physically built capacity adequate in Croatia, where we would put it in places where it is in terms of strategic schedule and in terms of manipulation, in terms of renewing conveniently and opportunised for the state, but we are convinced that in the next year, the part of the arrival in Croatia will be two days, and that we are lauded to God this year, in an immaterial sense, we have no more than one ton, all in a material sense, means ticates are, goodbye, we no longer have, thanks to the continued effort of the Croatian government and the state budget, which each year separates the serious resources to get physical goods without paying for optional purchases. The option purchases are cheaper, the options are in terms of financial terms, but they are in terms of strategy and strategic commitment and don't give God a situation a big risk, because someone told you that they will sell you at the moment when you need them, when you need them, in principle they will need everyone because we are not Croatia small and only there will be a crisis in us and there will be no crisis around them. So what you have at home is yours. And that's our theme and our commitment. On that behalf, I thank you all once again, I will do everything I can to make this bill finally come to a summer break and to adopt this law as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49599	Thank you very much. Before we move on to the replicas, we have a colleague, Selak Rasdic, who has committed an injury to the Rules of Procedure. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49600	Art. In 238, I did not use terms such as "awesome" or the interpretation of the State Audits findings at all. I just asked members of the ruling majority who are at the head of the state, are they familiar with the find of the State Audit? Your answer actually means that unless there's an answer to the question, that's up to the question. And as for your findings to wish it were an unconditional financial report, it's not a question of emotion, it's a question of someone's ability.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49601	So, colleagues Selak Rasudiæ, and you yourself know that this is an eclectic example of replica and not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you of course get a warning. I'm asking you not to. Don't do that, you are otherwise full of mouths, Parliament's integrity, etc., and this is a conscious violation of the Rules of Procedure. Unnecessarily. Totally unnecessary. Here, you've re-injured the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49602	Art. 238, it comes to you that you are now implying to me that I am inconclusive and that I am in conflict with what I stand for. If the gentleman has provided some information that goes in the direction of me showing the State Review's findings as terrible, dramatic, etc., and that's not true, I must react because it has really diminished my statement and a serious question that I have referred to members of the ruling majority who have no idea about the findings of the State Audit.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49603	So, first please read to yourself at last, finally read the Rules of Procedure to understand whether the truth or the false question of the matter of the Rules of Procedure, and I to you because you abused it, based on Article. Paragraph 240, I give you a reminder by taking away the word. You want to keep lifting a plate for breaking the Rules of Procedure or not? I don't understand. Are you up or not up? All right, all right, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49604	Art. In 238, you rejuvenate parliamentary deputies and step out of your legal powers. Who are you to tell me to finally read the Rules of Procedure? So, first of all, you don't even know if I've read it, and since it feels that my systematic work in the Parliament shows that unlike many, including your majority, I'm reading a lot, I don't think you have the right to do me this way and to present the untrues that you're disdaining my work.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49605	So I don't disrespect your work, but either you haven't read the Rules of Procedure or if it is, it's much worse, then you knowingly violate it, which is anti-democratic. And by the way, because of what you just said, The 240nd paragraph 2 gives you a reminder by taking away the word until the end of the debate on this subject. Now we're going to the replicas, the esteemed representative Katarina Peovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49606	Let's get back to the subject. So what was said here by the secretary of state, it really reminds the sheik Republic, we're going to profit from oil and renewable energy sources we're going to subsidize to a private business that has a massive income instead of having economic development based on the production of renewable energy technologies we're going to say solara, we're going to deal with oil. In that sense, I have a question. So the media is calculating that the government is seriously developing ideas in the establishment of a separate state-owned company that would be competent to control the collection of concession fees and other financial obligations that companies have in the name of concessions for oil and gas research in Croatia. In the light of this law, it literally states that trade on large oil derivatives will be introduced, because unlike the previous concession contracts, Croatia took over the model in the ‘16th and 19th events, according to which, in addition to the compensation for the quantities of hydrocarbon obtained, it also belongs to the share in the production of hydrocarbons, which was not the case in the previous concession contracts. So are we now raising our interest in hydrocarbons?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49607	Dear Secretary of State, please exceed significant.../Upaidic: So you did not warn me, I did not watch the time, I think./... and please look at yourself so there are monitors Here you go. [[Intruder: If you can warn a little louder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49608	As far as I'm concerned, all I'm going to answer is that you might be interested in this when we introduced the activity of trading derivatives to large ones. We introduced this for technical reasons in coordination with customs and with all competent authorities. In view of the fact that the Agency for Hydrocarbons is in accordance with the law, the Agency is responsible for the mandatory supply of oil and petroleum products. Which means that at the moment God didn't give us a situation for a market disturbance to happen, we would actually sell these derivatives to entities that could possibly not have obtained these derivatives on the free market. That's one of the reasons we put it in. And secondly, because of the very renewal and manipulation, it means when to sell and buy means in coordination with these bodies they have expressed that they must also be entered as an activity and that is why it was written in the law. ... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49609	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49610	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear State Secretarys to the Agriculture Strategy aims to achieve renewable energy production up to about 15%, up to 35%, in livestock farming, in this respect, it is very important and adapts the criteria for calling for competitions to produce renewable energy sources in order for agriculture to have its special status in the context of these competitions. In this regard, the Croatian Agricultural Chamber addressed some of its proposals to your ministry, so I would like to hear how much you agree with these proposals. In fact, their view is that it would be important to actually set additional criteria so that at least 40 to 70% of its own biomass produced on its own economy is used to produce renewable energy sources from biomass to end imports and some malversions. And when it comes to solarists, they prefer those objects that are therefore owned by the solar plant manufacturer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49611	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49612	Thank you. I think in that last competition that we call a little contest we've quite appreciated how many opportunities we've made in terms of both the directive and the law, we've made it possible. I absolutely agree with you that you need to take care of your own raw materials, about the distance of kilometers where something, some raw materials can be delivered, not driven. So we're taking care of it, and now we're slowly preparing another contest, so eventually if we see that we've had some situations that might improve, we'll certainly take care of it. And I agree with you that renewable electricity primarily related to biomass and biogas is quite expensive, and now we're back on the subject, but again, it solves another problem, and that's ultimately helping agriculture, so we get two benefits.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49613	Thank you. The next is the replica of the esteemed lawman, Habib.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49614	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State here, the International Energy Agency has reported that the global capacity of renewable energy will grow by 50% in the next 5 years thanks to photovoltaic solar panels. A lot of MPs and MPs here today looked back on that part of the solar panels. I'd just mention that actually with us in the Republic of Croatia it's not all so black. Here we have, for example, the Solvis company in Varazdin produces almost a million modules a year, 2800 modules a day with 300 employees, 330 million kunas of income, 29 million kunas of profits, therefore it would be good to have such positive examples when we are talking about renewable sources mentioned in the Croatian Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49615	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49616	Thank you. As for that clearly, that story of mine and what you know, which is 2.5 to 3.5 thousand megawatts by 2030, it'll practically be a renewable megawatt, and in that, at least one third of solar panels. So it is clear that it is in our interest that as much of this can be produced both in Croatia and in this direction as a ministry not only designated for energy but also for the economy every day we help as much as it is in accordance with our capabilities and powers.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49617	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49618	Thank you. The Secretary of State's price of Big One was 325 million as much as it was in the paper and when it was opened. A Turkish investor was a colleague in that he was.../incomprehensible... who gave that whole money. I'm just asking the question why with our top experts who think it can really be owned by the local community why not the local fruit farmers, the vegetables that I said together, and even with the Turkish who has levitated this is 200 million, I don't see why it wouldn't be permanently solved especially by the fact that the investment comes back in tens of millions a year. I understand that this has been dug up, so I know it all, but again I'm telling you that the return is surprising and that it's fast, and this man is just a mediator.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49619	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49620	No one's defending local self-government from getting involved, that's not at all controversial. However, in fact, we are on a daily basis helping local self-government, this law that preceded this law, in fact the development society was created because of local self-government, not because of, under quotes from Turkish or some other investors. It doesn't occur to me, as Secretary of State, to propose to the government tomorrow or to my minister, and Minister Vlad proposes a development society that will not be based on local or regional self-government. It wasn't at all the intensity or idea of this law, to be someone third, except for local and regional self-government. And if you have any ideas and initiatives, welcome and none happier than us, and I suppose even you, so be it. We don't have one, we're on the same track.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49621	The next replica, respected MP Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49622	The Honorable Vice President of HS and the Honorable Secretary of State. During 2019, the hydrocarbon agency increased the number of employees from 19 to 28, which exceeded almost a million kunas of higher costs. We have to admit that you've been a little shocked by pointing out the example of JANAF. Well, we don't have the memory of a goldfish, and I guess no one in Croatia today, JANAF is an example of something good, especially because we know that it appears to have been used as a platform for millions of actions in film theft. We were promised a small Norway, even in 2014 with the agency, with the Adriatic and the story about the Adriatic, we did not become little Norway. Now it's going into the story of geothermal action. Perhaps to launch a pilot project to establish all other chemical elements, forgive me for the irony, and I really want to know what the real purpose of the Agency is, except for the obvious increase in costs and employment of people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49623	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49624	That's a weird question, but I'll answer it. First, why don't I say that JANAF is something that's good and that JANAF is something that's strategic? These topics you refer to are topics dealt with by the organs concerned. ... is an excellent company and a strategic Croatian company, and so it will, and so it will be, and so it will be, and so it will remain. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And as for how we just hire people, so these people did a terrible job, these people signed up to the last piece of information in terms of geothermals and hydrocarbons, which would all be ruined, left in the INA warehouses, everything that's been explored, then everything is written down, written down, watered by the Committee for Coastal Safety, working on geothermal these, concessions, running mandatory oil supplies where we have the value of the entire stock. how many annually we produce oil in Croatia [[Intruder: Thank you.]] And you think 28 people are too much for that. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49625	Thank you very much. I would like to conclude a debate on this point, and we will vote on it when the conditions are met. Since we've been here a long time now, we're working, we're going to take a break for the wind, it's 12 and 10, we'll see you at 12 and 25. It's 12.10 o'clock. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.27 HOURS]] Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Does the report’s representative wish to give an additional explanation? Yes, the Honorable Chairman of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals Ivana Posavec Krivec.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49628	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear, but few and brave colleagues and colleagues. Today I warmly welcome you first of all before the debate on the report on the work of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals of the Croatian Parliament for 2020, and I will immediately note that I am talking here about the report coming through and the two calls of the Croatian Parliament, meaning IX. The sage and the X-commitment since we were established in July last year. So, the Committee on Presentations and Appeals of the Croatian Parliament once a year, in accordance with Article. 107. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, reports on their work to the Croatian Parliament and on this occasion, means today, we inform the representatives of the Croatian Parliament about the observed irregularities of violations of the legal rules as well as the rights of citizens in the proceedings before the authorities of the state administration and legal persons with public authority. In addition, through the work on the presentations and complaints of citizens, the Assembly points to violations of the law and other harmful phenomena of broader importance and proposes to take the necessary measures to eliminate them and proposes through authorised bodies, examination of the basis of representations, complaints and proposals and, accordingly, the need to take the law-based measures. Our Rules of Procedure therefore prescribes that the working body of the Assembly may discuss the performances and proposals that citizens submit to the Assembly. The task of the committee shall be in accordance with the work of the prescribed Article. 107. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament to intervene in addressing the problem of citizens and all with the aim of protecting the exercise of the basic rights of all parties addressing for assistance, whether they address them in writing, orally, and for the sake of course, the removal of all irregularities. The procedure under individual presentations and complaints is the most significant form of protection of human rights. The particular importance of the concepts and complaints is reflected in the fact that it enables individuals to address the highest state bodies, thus presenting a direct link between the citizens and their elected representatives. The right of citizens to address state authorities may be defined as the right to appeal to the state authorities or to assist them or as a request for a certain act or often by inaction most frequently referred to state authorities or public services. The state of human rights does not prescribe or approve but guarantees their protection, so it can be said that human rights are above the state and that it must respect them. Following this, in the work of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals of the Croatian Parliament, cooperation and trust between state and public bodies, competent authorities to resolve at all levels of the authorities to which the presentations and complaints of citizens are delivered are of particular importance. The lack of activity, the failure of the relevant bodies and the responsible persons in them, result in further violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms of citizens. With regard to the slowness to resolve complaints, requests, requests, queries or complaints of citizens, the question of the responsibilities of employees and authorised persons who, by passive attitude and slowness of the administration, treat citizens with no responsibility or consequences is raised. In addition to acting on performances and complaints, we also discuss activities on interparliamentary cooperation in the form of meetings in the Croatian Parliament. The vice-president and members of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals, the president and members of the Committee on Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities and the Croatian- Czech Interparliamentary Friendship Group participated in a meeting last year with the delegation of the Committee on Petitions of the Parliament of the Czech Republic in February 2020. In the Xth Assembly of the Croatian Parliament, the current meeting of the Committee also received an inquiry from the Montenegrin Assembly, which showed interest in getting to know the work of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals of the Croatian Parliament, and we also received representatives of the Embassy of Montenegro in Zagreb and passed on our experiences so that we could apply positive practice from the Croatian Parliament in Montenegro and the Assembly. I note that the report on the work of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals for 2019 did not discuss the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament. This is a report sent to the Croatian Assembly on 15 May 2020 in the procedure. The Committee on Presentations and Appeals was therefore convened at its 1st session in X. 11. In 2020, he agreed that the report for 2019, meaning for the previous meeting of the Croatian Parliament, takes note only and does not refer to the debate again. The same thing was delayed in the archives. The report on the work of this Committee for 2020, as well as all its previous reports, can be seen as a demonstration of the situation in our society as it turns out that almost every other subject, means almost 45% of them come from the area of justice and administration. The biggest problem is the unreasonable longevity of judicial and administrative proceedings and the committee cannot be so-called. An intervention in court proceedings because of course there is no legitimate basis, I apologize. The fact that citizens address this committee and have the need to address this committee does not prove that they trust in the Croatian Parliament. It just proves, unfortunately, that they're desperate and they have no one else to turn to. Unfortunately, the powers of the Board shall be limited to the Rules of Procedure and, as the Committee may, shall refer the statement or appeal to the competent authority and shall request an indication within a reasonable period of time. During 2020, the Committee received and processed a total of 190 items, including 126 new performances and complaints and 64 cases from previous years, so objects that have been actively living on this committee since 2012. During the period during which the report was submitted, the Committee held only one session, and this is precisely in this meeting where the members of the Committee of the 10th convened HS are familiar with the current way of working and with the performances received by the Committee. The report in question shows the work of the Committee, i.e. the review of the data on presentations and complaints in areas and statistics on the work of the Committee in 2020. In a report from the Board for 2021. You will see certain changes in the work itself and in the very systematization of the data we have, far different analysts, and I hope that through some graphic images we will be able to show what is actually happening over the years and what the most citizens point to. According to the submissions and complaints received by the Committee in 2020 We acted in a slightly smaller number of cases, since it is quite clear because it is compared to 2019 and the previous year given the covid circumstances and other circumstances, so it is actually in 2020. lacked personal contact with parties who could no longer come to the talks here at HS. As regards the treatment of areas during 2020, the most performances and complaints were related to the area of the judiciary and administrations of them 85 or almost as I said 45%. The number is followed by residential, municipal and property issues with 47 items, 28 performances with social and health issues and from the field of family protection 17, from the field of work and work relations 11 items are recorded from other areas and the other submissions which have the character of the complaint are recorded with two subjects. Furthermore, during the reporting period with citizens other than regular mail, fax, e-mail or personal arrivals, the Committee also made a direct phone call, provided information and was consulted in the exercise of its rights in a total of 193 recorded cases. During the reporting period, the most written performances and complaints of citizens were received and processed from the area of justice and administration, nearly 45% already mentioned. Of course, most citizens complain about the judiciary, the administration, the state's attorney's office, the police, lawyers, requests for free legal aid, and Dr. The main reason why citizens refer to the Committee is the fact that the unreasonable length of proceedings is both judicial and administrative. Citizens pointed to the length of proceedings before individual courts, some for example 16 years and over, for 33 years, 48 years are the longest procedures shown by dissatisfied citizens. Similarly, they are often unhappy with the outcome of court decisions, dissatisfied with the work of judges, suggest the inability to exercise their right to make decisions within a reasonable period of time, suggest abuse of office and corruption in the judiciary. Some complaints refer to the conduct of the proceedings of the judicial administration and to the unprofessional and inappropriate behaviour of the court's staff towards the party in the course of the proceedings. The Committee therefore referred the statements and complaints to the Ministry of Justice and the Administration of the Republic of Croatia. The Committee also agreed to examine the performances of repeated and anonymous complaints from the DORH's jurisdiction, municipal and county attorneys and the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime in the Criminal, Violent and Civilian Administration Case. Furthermore, the committee received and processed complaints from persons deprived of liberty in Croatian prisons and complaints about the conduct of police officers. There have been complaints from citizens related to executive procedures, cash, salaries and citizens' pensions. Written statements and complaints on the work of administrative bodies, bodies of units of local and regional (regional) self-government and bodies having public authority or on the work of individuals in bodies, on non-professionalism, inaccuracy, incompetence, ineffectiveness in the work and reference of parties from one body to another. After processing, the Committee forwarded the relevant actions to the relevant ministries, depending on the content of the play and the complaint. I therefore stress that it is in 2020. The board sent more rushes. According to cases in the work of the judiciary and the administration, often from one to 12 rushes per case. This indicates the fact that the competent authorities do not act hastily and are not evidenced of established and carried out procedures. As another group of subjects that take significant space in our work is the subject of presentations and complaints received on the committee concerned the area of residential, municipal and property law issues, as I mentioned a total of 47 cases and 25% respectively. Examples of this treatment are seen in recorded and processed cases relating to the problems of resolving housing issues, housing of persons who have returned or come to the area of special state care and long-term housing procedures, the rental of apartments, purchase of state dwellings or business premises owned by the Republic of Croatia, the problems of lawless construction, upgrades, energy renovation of buildings, legalisation, the exercise of the right of service and the right to access to public roads, the purchase of ownership, the protection of rights in the procedures of the realization of spatial plans of the arrangements from the jurisdiction of regional and local level, the arrangement of settlements and spaces outside the settlement, and the implementation of documents of spatial arrangements or the issue of local permits. Citizens referred to this committee complaints about municipal issues related to the lack of municipal infrastructure, with the payment of municipal fees in business and housing, with the payment of the transport of municipal waste in the holiday house, with the disposal of waste water, traffic redistribution and the safety of transport on an unclassified road. One part of citizens' complaints received and processed concerns the environmental, nature protection and protection of human health, the problem of noise pollution, waste disposal, waste management, the work of competent authorities and responsible natural persons, and complaints about the slowness in solving their problems. In a small number of performances and complaints in this area of property legal relationship restitution seized during the Yugoslav communist rule and complaints related to other property legal relations, the length of the property legal process was warned. It happens that procedures take years before administrative authorities, but also later in court disputes. In 2020, the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) 2015/35 on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Union and the European Union and the Swiss Confederation on the Swiss Confederation's association with the European Economic Community, the European Union and the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation and the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation and the Swiss Confederation on the Swiss Confederation's association with the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation and the Swiss Confederation. For written statements and complaints and their additions in the area of In as many as 28 cases or 15% of the subject matter, the Committee was engaged in violation of the rights of pension and health insurance, social care and family protection and for the duration and outcome of the procedures for the exercise of the rights with regard to HZMO, HZZO and social care centres. This is indeed an ongoing problem, and lately most often performances come from this area. Thus, persons with disabilities, pensioners, old and powerless who warned of adverse material and financial opportunities were contacted from the field of social care. There were also a significant number of complaints about the conditions in Covid-19 circumstances. Some complaints by citizens relate to domestic violence and cases where children are victims of domestic violence, frequent domestic disputes, physical and verbal violence, and requests to protect underage children from abuse. There have been complaints about the work and treatment of professional associates and responsible persons in welfare centres. From the field of health care, the performances received were related to possible infringements of patients' rights. They showed dissatisfaction with waiting lists, the inability to exercise the right to health care, the work of the health care home, of course, with the most common mistrust and incomprehension between patients and healthcare professionals on orders of medicines via the phone and the like, dissatisfaction with the unconscious treatment of doctors and individual complaints about dental services in dental medicine offices. These are also circumstances that have increased during the covid period, especially with complaints about the inability to get a doctor through the phone and the inability to go to the doctor’s office. There have been more questions regarding part of the measures to combat the spread of Covid-19, the inability to obtain all of this necessary information, and the inability to note the waiting lists and the question of the concerned citizen regarding the protection of the most deprived persons in relation to Covid-19 diseases, which are located in the same household with the student, students at moments when children did not have an online teaching. The Committee submitted all the written statements and complaints of the above mentioned content after the examination to the competent authorities in order to establish the modality of assistance to the most vulnerable individuals and their families. For written statements and complaints in the field of pension and health insurance rights, social care and protection of the family, the Committee also referred more haste to the competent authorities, from one to six due to the slowness of conduct, and requested urgent treatment and completion of the procedure. From the field of work and working relations in 2020. 17 and 9% of cases were received and processed. Presentations and complaints were related to admission to the state service, illegal work schedules, illegal temporary transfer, irregularities in employment, non-payment of salaries, payment of salaries in two parts, unpaid overtime, non-payment of payments on the construction of new job systems at the request of pay increases of 8% for persons who completed postgraduate specialist studies, requirements for the protection of the dignity of workers, non-professionalism and an incorrect attitude towards colleagues, threats, mobing, as a special form of discrimination at the workplace, equal status and labour rights of teaching assistants and irregularities in the implementation of public tender for employment, and irregularities in the vacancy in certain schools. The committee was addressed by officials of ministries and other state bodies directly or through trade unions, as well as by citizens, and pointed to possible violations of labour rights in state and public services, educational institutions, schools, and the private sector. Most often these remarks came from the field of security companies. There have been addresses to this union committee and their commissioners acting in the bodies of the state authorities that have warned of possible failures in the management of employers towards workers. Therefore, in the above-mentioned area, the Committee received and processed 11 items concerning the protection of consumer rights from other areas during the reporting period. It is about individual written statements and complaints from citizens of public service users who are potentially injured consumer rights. They often spoke orally in telephone contact. The complaints were focused on the behaviour of public service providers and on the quality of services provided by public undertakings offering the supply of electricity to citizens, the exclusion of energy and the like. In conclusion, the number of complaints in writing dropped compared to 2019, and the committee actively communicated with the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49629	Thank you very much. We have multiple replicas, the first respected representative Selak Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49630	The Honorable representative Krivac, it's one of the oldest parliamentary committees. However, the moment he was established in the 19th century was a different political moment where there was no clear awareness of the division of power, and the committee was in charge of solving certain things in a measure. Today, his assignment is significantly different because of the various other bodies who have taken over his role, or directly solving complaints, so he serves more as one type of detour than someone who can specifically help citizens. In this regard, if we also look at this statistics that are present in the Report, we can notice that by 2013 to 2020 more than half the number of complaints, from 491 to 190. So a lot less citizens show up. So my question is, do you think it's time we receptualized this committee's work?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49631	The Honorable President of the Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49632	I thank my esteemed colleague Selak Rasdic, I am pleased that you have noticed these needs to bring some changes within the Committee on Presentations and Appeals of Citizens in HS. In fact, I am pleased that there is a vice president and colleague from the Committee who will probably present in his discussions what we have threatened in our work so far. The citizens are coming to us, they're expecting a lot of us. Our business opportunities don't give us the opportunity to solve their problems at all, but as you say, we're forwarding them to other addresses. We can see, we can point and we can hurry, but unfortunately we can't solve. We are one of the few constituencies that have no external members and we believe that this should also be considered because quality people from the administration, from the judiciary, from the civil sector, could contribute from the profession to improve the work of this The Committee and make it more accessible to the citizens. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49633	Thank you. Honorable representative Hajdukovic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49634	Thank you very much, colleague Posavec. This is the 4th or 5th report, I believe, which we are discussing in the plenary session and you have already talked about, about the role of the Committee, that is what colleague Selar Rasudiæ said, but this Committee has often called itself a little different, not a turner, but a shoulder to cry on. This is where citizens who have exhausted most likely all the possibilities they have had, which the sea really heavy concerns like long-term and this unreasonablely long-term court process etc. and who are already losing hope at all in institutions and don't actually have anyone to turn to. I think that this debate is also good, first of all, to raise awareness of the existence of the Committee among citizens, and also to point to some problems, because it is very indicative of what kind of problems citizens are dealing with, which are the most common problems, how they are solved or not, and how you cooperate or do not cooperate with certain institutions of the state.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49635	The Honorable President of the Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49636	Your Honor... Thank you. Dear colleague Hajdukovic. You're right, what we're discussing through our report and the Committee's work is actually just a santa, the tip of the iceberg. These are the most persistent citizens who have reached the wall, who have reached the edge and who have found the only distance for further assistance in the Board of Representatives and Appeals of the HS. It is very clear that a large amount of all these complaints is precisely a complaint against the judiciary, at the administration. That's what we're all witnessing and what we're all aware of, means that we're kind of more interesting here, and when I deliberately emphasized what number of performances we're talking about here, means cca 190 now at the annual level, plus, just as many phone calls that we're counting equally as performances, we have to be guided by each play so that we have up to 16 more rushes. So we from the Croatian Parliament have to send 16 rushes in order to get an answer by one of the objects. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49637	The next replica is the esteemed MP Vukac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49638	Thank you. Dear colleagues, since there are still a number of complaints received and the presentations of the Committee, so we are talking about over 200 complaints received in 2019, and during 2020 there are around 190, okay, one minor decline is evident, however, it is still a large number, and when we talk about the 2019 Report, it is not at all debated, it was only received knowledge and stored in the archive. Is this acceptable to you, as presidents of that Committee, and should we have given the opportunity for this report, after all, to discuss and follow through the public, and thus also to encourage our citizens to continue reporting and seeking help in this way? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49639	The Honorable President of the Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49640	Thank you, colleagues. Yes, you've noticed. The 2019 report is not debated at the plenary session, but is discussed at the session of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals. We all agreed together and made such a decision that we would not refer this report because it was already scheduled for the plenary session, so during 2020 in the term of the 9th session. At that time, it was not debated, and we felt that all of us as members of this Committee were not in the continuity of this Report, that it was very difficult to present a report in which you did not participate, which you did not contribute and we put it on the disposition of all the representatives, which is available on the Committee and whoever has the interest may look at it, but we felt it was wrong to put it on the table again with such delay, but that we should focus on what we are doing now and on how we can lead to change.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49641	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative, Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49642	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of HS, Representative Posavec Krivec. Here, when we look at the number of these plays, I'd say it's not a big number. If we had only 200 problems in Croatian society, that would be a great thing, everyone's problem is very big, but I'm actually interested in your analysis. Does such a small number of performances actually indicate that one part of the role of solving performances is scattered on other parent working bodies, which I will talk about later because our Committee really solves a lot of these cases, or maybe citizens still don't know enough about the work of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals, and what could be done in that sense to make that activity, the existence of committees and the opportunities that the Committee has, and in order to help them effectively solve their problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49643	The Honorable chairman of the board.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49644	Thank you, dear colleague Petyr, you're absolutely right. Both of the arguments you made stand. So, in addition to citizens reporting to the Committee on Presentations and Appeals, they also appear to all other committees in the Croatian Parliament depending on the subject of which they complain. So I'm sure you have a series of complaints about agricultural policy or something. We have taken a significant number from the Committee on Human Rights, from the Committee on Environmental Protection, from a series of MPs who personally received also certain complaints in their boxes and e-mails. There are also complaints that come to all members of the Croatian Parliament, including a number of other committees. So, if I agree, we could improve the committee's work. We could improve it with various round tables and joint thematic sessions which we have not been able to do very often because of these Covid circumstances, but also by popularising the work of committees and places where citizens can and should report. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49645	The next replica of the respected representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49646	Thank you. Dear MPs last week, we discussed a report by the Attorney General who pointed out that our citizens are not familiar with their rights. We also know that they are often inaccessible to the Institute of Free Legal Assistance because insufficient financial resources are being allocated. We cannot call on citizens to restore the trend of trust in this institution by increasing the number of complaints until we change the way this committee works, powers and competences. In order to restore trust in the institutions, there must be a responsibility for the authorities to act on a request. We are behind on both the work of this committee and the outcome of the work of the body to which the committee is addressed. What I think we should change is that the information that the board is getting is used to changing the legislative and institutional framework of those bodies that are not doing their job well And there isn't. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49647	The Honorable chairman of the board.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49648	Thank you, dear colleagues, this committee has a truly significant analysis and indicators. And when they were looking at each other parallelly, they looked at each other for a longer number of years, and there was a trend. These trends indicate where some things should be changed, where the least effective is and where the least effective is the body of the state administration. And yes, we have some ideas and suggestions that we would present by the end of the year so that our work will be more effective, but also to make the state administration closer to the citizens because I repeat, if citizens cannot get an answer to their inquiry and put themselves in a position that the Croatian Parliament should send up to 16 rushes to get an answer, which is what we are discussing here. On complete ineffectiveness and on one actually a halt in the work of the state administration and the ability to achieve the rights of our citizens. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49649	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49650	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, first of all, I would agree with your opening conclusion that it is not the role of the state to prescribe but to recognise and protect human rights because indeed it is not the source of human rights that most in parliament or most in international conferences are nature itself, and therefore the dignity of a human being. Now, on the trail of previous discussions on the very visibility of this committee and the reports of this committee, given the subject of human rights, do you think maybe one way to strengthen it is to strengthen the committee's work, to discuss this in a united debate and this report together with the Ombudsman's report.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49651	The Honorable chairman of the board.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49652	Dear fellow Stier, you have entered the very core of what we as board members often think and exchange opinions and we believe that indeed in the Republic there are two basic reports on which attention should be paid. This is, on the one hand, a report by the occupier of the occupier or the occupier of the occupier and the report of this committee, because these are the actual depictions of human fates in Croatia and the situations they are dealing with. And that we think that here and actually the view of our committee's work has a series of parallels with what we see and the work of the occupier. And we have a lot of similarities and even in these responsibilities, and I'm going to tell the authorities what we can do. Unfortunately, most often we can do very little and be as counterpart Hajdukovic said most often only shoulder to cry on.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49653	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49654	Thank you. Dear colleague Posavec Krivec, chairman of the board, I would like to ask what you think about it, I agree with you what you have said among other things to be expected to help civil society with these unresolved issues with its organizations. As they say, politics is the art of a possible largely civil society organisation dealing systematically with unresolved issues. People are talking to us here, and in their despair, it's really worrying that the number that can only talk about apathy is falling. What you said was that 16 rushes just needed to happen, and I'm curious if HRT would help us do the same for these round tables, not only commercial televisions have their own spectacular Human misery in your program. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49655	The committee's respected president's response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49656	I thank my esteemed colleague Matula, the fact is that in Croatia we should talk more about civil liberties and civil rights, about everything citizens should be entitled to and in a way that educates them about how they can achieve it. The fact is that this is the behaviour of public bodies, but for a long, long time, has caused great dissatisfaction with our citizens, they are often concerned and no longer trusts any institution. In this situation, we often find ourselves that they are indeed very much expecting from our committee and think that here we will now be able to solve their problems with an all-powerful magic wand, and in fact they are not aware of how limited our business powers are and how little we can help in particular. The public... contributed to the work.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49657	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative, Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49658	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Posavec Krivec, you said that the most citizens complain about the length of the proceedings in the judiciary and the administration when we know that according to the General Administrative Procedure Act, the solution must be made no later than 60 days when the examination procedure is of the party's orderly request, then we are talking about the silence of the administration. Isn't it time for this House of the High to deal with this institute of silence of the administration and in some way sanctioning the silence of the administration and even in a situation of very long procedures to introduce stronger presummations of the party's adoption and perhaps in this way there will be a quicker resolution in administrative procedures? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49659	The Honorable chairman of the board.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49660	I'd like to thank my colleagues, Nadj. Of course, HS is the most legislative body in the Republic of Croatia and can define legal solutions. But here you said the longevity of the procedure, I'm just drawing attention to the fact that the largest number is so-called. old objects, items we pull from 2012. and that are constantly current are cases of judicial concern. The fact is that there is no answer either for the trombone or for the silence of the administration and that simply people in some judicial proceedings are actually losing their lives before the proceedings are resolved and this really leads to very, very difficult circumstances for life. It would really be responsible for Croatian citizens if we had some kind of punishment for silence and for such non-treatment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49661	Thank you. Dear Representative Miletic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49662	The Honorable Vice President of HS and the Honorable Chairman of the Committee. We who are on the ground, and here I have been active for 20 years in the NGO sector, we know that the situation is much more serious on the ground and that there are much bigger problems, people in their everyday lives. And now I'm curious about the 200 complaints or the performances you've received, is that a small number? We heard some colleagues commenting. What does it mean to you that only 200 citizens have addressed you with certain difficulties? You got 63 thanks if it's too small a number, how do you look at it? And in the end, the citizens who gave you these thanks, what are they ordering specifically? And another question, do the citizens of the Republic of Croatia know specifically about your board and what can you do to be familiar with it and what you offer them through the board? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49663	The Honorable chairman of the board.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49664	Thank you, dear colleague Miletic. Yes, you're right, it's very difficult for us to assess what is a realistic number of complaints and performances we should take on yearly level. I believe that we would all be the happiest if this number was reduced year by year because it would mean that citizens' problems are being solved in places where this should happen and that no complaints should be made to the representative body. Unfortunately, we all know that this is not the case, and we know that it is in fact a small number of citizens who are persistent enough to end up taking advantage of all their civic opportunities to answer their questions. So when we talk about 200 written performances and about so many oral ones, these are reductions compared to previous years, but this does not mean that the situation in society has improved. Looking back in '21. We have the knowledge that there are a very large number of people with complaints, and there are earthquakes.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49665	Thank you. Honorable representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49666	Thank you very much. The Honorable chairman of the board. So people appear when they lose every hope, when they lose every faith, then they report to your committee with their written premise or complaint. As we discussed the report by the Ombudsman, we then discussed that part of her recommendation, so she has a recommendation on how many of these recommendations are implemented and the result of these recommendations that some of the complaints will not be next year. So it would always be convenient to see when you deliver it, so they're always suing for something, you get some kind of answer, you answer there, people are satisfied when someone's already answered something, but what was the result of those complaints or complaints specifically, so if people are constantly suing something then there's something rotting in the state of Denmark. So if that resulted in something, and then in the next year or year after that we don't have any more, that's something that would be good as a result of the committee's work.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49667	The Honorable chairman of the board.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49668	I thank my colleagues, Dark Taritash. You've noticed, we can't bring out the data here that in the system we've managed to change something, we've managed to improve it. So, we can "gratify" ourselves by the fact that about 10% of the complaints we manage to solve within a year. So, if we're specifically talking about 2020. It's about 9% or 15 cases that were solved in that year, but these are really subjects of a smaller scale, these are some municipal issues, these are not objects that systematically choke our citizens, these are not the subjects of this part of the judiciary or social care. So, unfortunately, this should be a more systematic approach to pointing to the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49669	The Republic also has a respected representative, Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49670	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Posavec the Guilty. So, in 2020, there were 190 cases, but the new ones were 126, and those who were pulling from 2012 to 2019 were even a third, 64, not only from the area of justice and administration but also from health, pension and other areas. Is this just the reason for the length of the proceedings, whether the silence of the administration, the non-response of the institutions, whether or not any complaints of certain citizens are repeated because they are not satisfied with the committee's response, what is this about? I mean, it's a pretty big number, a third, is it really incomprehensible to me that, that these rushes even need to, here's what you said, up to 16, so there are not only JLSs, but there are ministries. And I totally agree that there must be some tools, even punishment for not repeating such a thing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49671	The Honorable chairman of the board.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49672	Thank you, dear colleague Maric. Yes, you've noticed, one significant number of items that have been current within our board for many years. There are more reasons why such a situation is, some of them you've listed, I'm not going to repeat them. But one of the key elements is that citizens, when they address a body of state or public administration, expect an answer from them. When that answer does not come within a reasonable period, then they address us. At the same time, we send rushes to their cases, and if they get an answer then they come back to us, thanking us as Mr Miletic noticed or hastening us to react again if the silence continues. And so some of the items along with, of course, some of the solutions that citizens are not satisfied with and the silence of the administration are also being drawn for several, several years.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49673	Thank you very much. Now we're going to stop at this point, here's already 1 and 11, we're a little late, so we're going to move on to what usually happens in an hour, and that's taking a stand. We will now return to our point on the work of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals. And I'm opening a debate, and the first one on behalf of the House Movement Representatives' Club will speak to the respected representative, Ruzica Vukovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49675	I thank the esteemed Vice President HS, colleagues and fellow MPs. So before us is the report on the work of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals in 2020. Based on the powers of more detailed art. 107. The Rules of Procedure of the HS Committee, as we have heard from the President, examines the concepts, complaints and proposals addressed to the Assembly, and points to competent authorities to violations of the laws and rights of citizens in the proceedings before the authorities of the State administration and legal persons with public authority. It then points to a meeting of violations of the law and other harmful occurrences of broader meaning, proposes to take the necessary measures to eliminate them, examines through the authorised bodies the basis of the concepts, complaints and proposals, and points to authorised authorities to the need to take action under the law of the established measures, and reports the applicant of the representations and complaints. However, I regret to conclude that this is the same report for 2019. the rest is unsettled or stored in the archive and will not reach the general public. In view of the large number, however, a large number of complaints received by citizens, so in 2019 more than 200 complaints and performances, and during 2020. 190 complaints. I believe it is important to speak in this high house exactly what our citizens have reported, what they are all fighting with and how our institutions treat them. Often, as representatives of the chosen people, we personally hear about the great number of injustices that are happening around us. And we ourselves are witnessing unsettled relations in the judiciary and administration, the slowness of solving problems, different benefits, we are aware of problems within the health system, within the social care system and a large number of unprotected families, unprotected children, property legal relations problems, communal services, questionable relations within working environments, unresolved housing issues, etc. In certain cases, citizens do not have enough information on available legal aid. For many, the problem was to draw up an individual act such as a complaint or a complaint. However, the largest number of performances and complaints in 2020 just as in recent years, it concerns the judiciary and administration, which are mainly written by the committee. It was the concepts that alert citizens to the length of judicial proceedings, to all corruption and organised crime, and to the questionable conduct of police officers, and to the exercise of their status rights, there are complaints of persons deprived of freedoms, then questionable procedures of conduct on the accounts of legal and natural persons of complaints on the work of certain lawyers, and on the work of state bodies, but also of units of local and regional self-government, then overruled powers and concrete complaints on the work of individuals in certain bodies. A large number of citizens complained about the inability to exercise their rights in the area of pension and health insurance and social care as well as injuries to employment and workplace abuse. As in previous years, citizens in complaints show dissatisfaction with the public administration by the fact that administrative procedures for public service provision are being initiated at the request of citizens before state administration authorities for too long. They are opposed to the principles of the General Administrative Procedure Act, then decisions are not made within the legal time limits, citizens are also warned about the silence of the administration, the ineffectiveness of the administration, the too long waiting for their answers to submissions, not making decisions by appeal, the violation of the principle of helping the ignorant party, the long-term procedures in which they are decided in the second degree, everything that is often heard both in the debates and in the presentation of the position of the representatives and in the Croatian Parliament. As citizens directly exercise most of their rights in the area of their local and regional and regional self-government, they often addressed the committee when they were dissatisfied with the work of local authorities or the authorities of municipal and urban administrations or counties. The reasons are different, but most often it is not to comply with their different requirements, ignoring citizens' demands from local authorities, insufficient support from local communities in exceptional situations or in the needs of a social nature or the absence of empathy towards a person in need. We are particularly concerned about the part in the report on repeated complaints from citizens with written and oral objections to the work of the authorities of the state administration and other bodies, and this is because of the silence of the administration. Therefore, we are talking about not acting on their complaints and their enquiries, not getting answers or receiving incomprehensible answers, and their dissatisfaction with the answers after one or more of the complainant's haste and even the haste brought by the Committee on Presentations and Appeals. If the Assembly Committee responds to the memos sent, it gets mostly beyond the prescribed deadlines that our citizens can expect. For example, I take a case in which the Ministry of Science and Education of the Republic of Croatia did not manifest itself after a total of 6 letters were sent by the Committee. Then what chance of a timely response to that ministry is an individual citizen. Registered complaints as well as repeated complaints on the topic of municipal problems are related to the lack of municipal infrastructure in certain areas, then to the payment of municipal compensation in business or housing, with the payment of the transportation of municipal waste in holiday homes most often with the disposal of waste water, which is an extremely large health problem in our rural areas. Then transport and traffic safety on unclassified roads, municipal waste management, environmental pollution, noise and others. Understandably, there are problems that local authorities need to address. However, since the effectiveness and effectiveness of their work are not controlled by the citizens in their applications to the committee or in its actions, they are obviously seeking a straw of salvation, but also protection from the will of our institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49676	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives will be that of the SDSS, in the name of which Anja Shimprag's respected representative will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49677	Dear Vice-President, President-in-Office of the Committee, honourable MPs and MPs, today we are on the agenda of the Report of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals for the previous year 2020. It should certainly be noted that the 2019 report did not discuss the session of the assembly because it was referred to the parliamentary procedure before the end of the last call. The 2020 report presents a combination of work and statistics, which allows for an easy comparison of the work of the board during the year at least when we speak in a statistical sense. Citizens address the Committee and draw attention to possible failures, errors, irregularities or violations of their rights by authorities, units of local and regional self-government and legal persons with public authority and professional services. I am convinced that the greatest value of the report itself is, however, concrete examples shown in the report which clearly and unequivocally demonstrates the cases in which the presentations and complaints are presented by members of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals. But these examples aren't just that, they're actually a bright display of the problems that our fellow citizens and fellow citizens are struggling with. So these are not politically colored problems, but the life problems of our citizens. Neither the work of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals was devoid of the influence of the Coronary Virus, so only a few parties were admitted directly into the Croatian Parliament building last year. I suppose the coronary virus is also one of the reasons for the fact that the board received and processed 190 plays and complaints, which is as much as 21 complaints less than a year ago. Of the 190 performances and complaints, 126 of them are new, while the remaining 64 are a kind of backlog from previous years. However, if we look at the number of cases in the period from 2013 to 2020, the question arises whether it is just the coronary virus. Since 2013, when the board has had as much as 491 items of performances and complaints from year to year, it has been dropping as a rule. So, in 2020, as many as 301 objects are less or almost 260% less. We can interpret that information in several directions. First, that there is no longer a need to submit to the Committee, that our fellow citizens do not have so many life problems and that the situation in society is being corrected. Secondly, to lose the purpose of submissions and complaints to the committee because our fellow citizens do not see the meaning of submitting them or that they have lost faith in the institutions or in this committee. However, there is another course of interpretation as the possible cause of the drop in the number of objects and it somehow seems to me the most logical. Citizens are simply not familiar with the institute of performances and complaints within this committee. I believe that it is necessary to raise the visibility of the quality and the multi-annual unbiased work of the committee in a way that constantly draws attention to the fact that within the Parliament and other state bodies and units of local and regional self-government, there are addresses that can address their problems in terms of the concepts and that in the worst scenario they will be referred to relevant addresses. People should be instructed, educated, and it seems to me that the situation with performances and complaints is similar to that of the Institute of Free Legal Assistance, the citizens simply did not hear of such a thing, so they are not used. Since this is already an unwritten rule regarding the committee's conduct, the largest number of performances and complaints, as many as 85, refer to the judiciary, the administration, the State's Attorney's Office and the police. Objections to the work of the judiciary can, as a rule, be summed up in a way that our fellow citizens have asked the board to take action before the courts without undue delay and to end within a reasonable period. Since this is not the only report from which these allegations of justice arise, I hope there will be some changes and a rise in quality and therefore trust in the judiciary. It is important to say that the Committee also sent 173 haste to the competent state authorities and received 164 indications from the competent authorities, with 15 cases resolved for the benefit of the citizens. It is also good that it is stated which state bodies are not responding to the committee in time because we can only imagine how it is only for citizens when the parliamentary board does not get answers when it should be. I am deeply convinced that the trust that citizens still have in the work of the board, with the fact of quality and impartial work by the board, which is what best and bear witness to these 63 written and oral thanks to the citizens of the Committee will be overcome and contribute to the improvement of the blood count of our society. In light of the above, the Club of Representatives of the SDSS will support the adoption of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49678	The next Club of Representatives will be the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative, Ankica Zmajic, will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49679	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here is today the report on the work of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals for 2020, Consistent Article. 107. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, this committee, once a year, submits a report to the Croatian Parliament on its work and thus informs the representatives of the Croatian Parliament about the observed irregularities in the violation of legal regulations and the rights of citizens in the process before the authorities of the state administration to legal persons who have the public authority and propose to take the necessary measures to eliminate them. This report on the Committee's work, represents a review of the work and statistical data of the Committee's work on presentations and complaints. In 2020, the Committee received and processed 190 items, of which 126 new performances and complaints and 64 from previous years and from 2012 to 2019 respectively. Most of the performances and complaints are from the area of justice and administration, 85 in which citizens complain of violations of their rights relating to justice, administration, State's Attorney's Office, police, lawyers and others. Then comes the area of residential, municipal, property-legal issues where 47 cases are related to housing issues, municipal infrastructure and municipal affairs, property-legal problems. 28 items in the field of social and health problems or violations of rights in the area of pension and health insurance, social care and family protection. There were 17 cases in the field of labour and labour relations in 2020 that warned of violations of labour rights in the state and public services as well as in the private sector. 11 items of presentations and complaints are from the other area, which is mostly consumer rights protection, two submissions have still been received that do not have the character of representation or complaints. I note that in 2020 there were also oral addresses to the Committee on Presentations and Appeals, exactly 193 oral address. The annual report on the work of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals for 2020 shall include and include the overall work of this Committee and shall show us parliamentary representatives how and how many citizens use this Institute to warn us of possible failures, errors, irregularities or violations of constitutional rights. It should be noted that often the expectations of citizens by this committee are large and business powers limited, i.e. as prescribed by Article. 107. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. However, the importance in the role of this committee is greater because it shows us that citizens who address the committee have confidence that they will be helped in specific matters. In 2020, there were slightly fewer cases compared to the previous 2019, but at this time pandemics are not easy to process, which is separate and requires special attention and commitment. That is why I would like to thank the hardworking staff of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals on a well-worked job, because they are almost daily communicating with citizens, either by telephone or by email. And the board also received 63 thanks from citizens for intervening in solving their problems through the competent authorities. Citizens rightly require more transparency and activity in the work of public authorities, local and regional (regional) self-government, which we in HDZ welcome, as well as we support this report on the work of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals for 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49680	Thank you. The next club of representatives will be the Mosta in the name of the respected representative Marija Selak Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49681	First it is necessary to say or repeat what is obvious, which is that the citizens did not recognize this committee. Namely, I have already seen the latest figures relating to the number of cases in the Committee since 2013-2020. shows that the number of these items has been more than halved since 491 we only burned to 190 plays and complaints. In order to clarify this number, we can, for example, mention the fact that former Justice Minister Miljenic pointed out when speaking in the Assembly that the Justice Ministry received between six and seven thousand acts a year and complaints only to the judiciary. Now think about it, you have between six and seven thousand shows and complaints on the judiciary alone, and for all possible areas of government and citizens' problems, only 190 shows and complaints are coming to this committee annually. Of course, it should be pointed out here that these problems that I am talking about and which I point out are not the result of the work of our parliamentary representatives who are at the head of that committee and who are in it. They are doing their job in quality, rather it will be that this is a systemic problem, and it is our duty if we really want the most important legislative body in the country to focus seriously on the receptualisation of this committee in order to either serve its original purpose or to find a new task that will really be able to perform. Therefore, it is not the only problem, as the report may indicate to the unlisted observer not to provide an answer, which is otherwise a common problem of communication with the authorities, the problem is of course the purpose of this committee. If we look at its function as assigned to the Rules of Procedure of the HS then we see that it refers to more different things than considering performances and complaints, pointing to the Assembly for violations of the law, questioning through the authorised bodies of their founding and this annual report, we see that there is indeed not much the committee can do. The Council or the Committee shall meet as such almost and shall not consider any occurrences of illegality or irregularity of the work of the state administration, there shall be a broad part of the examination of the foundation of performances from any area, and yet we have a situation which is crucial and which we must concentrate on if we want to speak facts, which is reality, and the reality tells us that citizens prefer to submit their representations and complaints to other working bodies with a specific and specific part of the circle or even write to representatives individually who believe that these problems will be solved. Since the Committee does not have sufficient performances or complaints, it cannot even detect any systemic problems and therefore cannot produce recommendations for their removal. The question is, should such a committee really exist? Do we have more competent bodies doing this job? For example. complaints about the judiciary if we talk about them other than the Justice Committee, we have the Ministry, we have the Attorney General, the Supreme Court, the DSV, etc. The last thing that comes to our citizens' minds, let's face it, is the Committee on Presentations and Appeals. This is not about my impression, it's about the specific data that I've provided here, and it's about the amount of complaints submitted. So, the work of this committee needs to be receptualized. It is indeed one of the oldest committees that has been there since the 19th century at the time when the Assembly was formed, there was no developed world, no political structure that rested on the principle of division of power, and then the citizens addressed the Pandan of this committee because he served what his name said had the authority to solve things on a scale. Today, in modern times, this, as well as other committees and citizens, are not familiar with it, so we often leave them disappointed cannot intervene in individual subjects. The Assembly is a purely legislative body and, as such, it is its task to pass laws as general and abstract legal rules applicable to pro futuro. And I must myself say that the fundamental confusion that is happening between what citizens expect from us when they write directly to us and what we can do for them according to the powers that belong to us comes precisely because of our actions, because here we do not tend to deal with the work that has been assigned to us, which may be for the general public at first, but not for the consequences of boredom, because it is about reading the laws and referring to their changes rather than politics. So we're really talking about whatever's on our mind at that point, and we think it can bring us political points. Since we operate in this way, citizens get the wrong impression that we are able to solve different problems regarding their daily life, and we do not have the authority to do so. So maybe if we were more committed to what we really do, and we were doing this job in quality, we wouldn't send the wrong message to the citizens, we wouldn't leave them disappointed, we wouldn't have a couple who might not deserve it, and we could talk about how this committee was directed to do what it was meant for or to find its purpose elsewhere. If we leave this concept of this committee he will continue to be just a post office and deal almost exclusively with the orientation of performances and complaints. Of course, as I was saying in my free speech, this is a broader question of the formation of a assembly that has more than double constituency bodies than the Government of the Ministries. And it suits everyone in the assembly because it's almost 100 presidential and vice-presidential chairs, secretaries and increased coefficients. Each representative is a member of at least 3-4 working bodies and some more. In this sense, there is no systematic and effective assembly work if the representatives run from the session of one committee to the session of the other committee just to get a quorum at all. There are no quality discussions on committees, the work is superficial and everything is fragmented. If indeed the ruling majority wants a more concentrated and quality parliamentary debate as they like to speak, then the committees are the key. A smaller number of committees, a greater specialisation of representatives on individual topics and individual areas. And as for the Committee on Presentations and Appeals, what is most important is that if we want to get something out of his work that is slightly and loses its function because citizens no longer recognize him as being a multi-annual process like that body that is there to directly communicate with them, there must be some way of common communication between the assembly, the lawyer's office and the ministries to be recognized in all performances and complaints, and not by representations and complaints only by these committees, the systemic problems that then they can be resolved both in the assembly and in the law. Without that, this remains only a dead letter on paper, only a committee to which we return once a year because the report comes to our agenda, a committee in which we can monitor at an annual level the decline of citizens' interest which is not the result of what counterpart Krivec mentioned as perhaps a positive thing, which is that citizens have fewer problems than their disappointment in the work of the assembly. The disappointments that we are primarily responsible for because we sent the wrong picture of what we are in charge of and what our opportunities are, and all because we wanted to provide powers that do not belong to us and turn them into political points for places that should also be receptualized so that we would have quality and constructive work on all committees, not just on this one, in line with our contribution options.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49682	The next Club of Representatives will be the SDP on behalf of which a respected representative, Domagoj Hajdukovic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49683	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed board presidents, on many occasions during and past calls, I have discussed this report and I said that, I said this today in the replica, that this committee is often the shoulder for crying to our fellow citizens, those who are the most desperate, who no longer know who to turn to, who have lost faith in saying so in the other institutions that should help them. And I just don't think we need the receptualization of this committee's work. It was reached the moment that the board is obliged to submit an annual report to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. And I'll tell you why. In representative liberal civil diplomacy, parliament's role is not only to pass laws but also to monitor their implementation, translated into Croatian control over the implementation of these ones. Not necessarily in a way that we call someone from the executive authority and the judicial authority, but to detect problems in the implementation of certain laws, indifference, inconsistencies, and to change them accordingly. That's why we have amendments and additions to laws and other acts. If you see colleagues and colleagues here, I think that this committee can very much help us and that it is very good that these reports come to the feast to discuss it both publicly and in the political and in the general public because the report of this committee just points to these things. It is already mentioned how complementary the institutions of the Ombudsman and this committee are in fact. They are complementary, but they are also not exclusive to the other or irreplaceable if you ask me. It is true that citizens often and especially address us because of personal preferences, because of the belief that an individual may be able to solve the problem, but they will not believe which committee I often direct them to. Well, right on the Board of Presentations and Appeals. So, if it is not a matter of concrete and meaningful European Affairs Committee, then it is a job if you ask me about the Committee on Presentations and Appeals. That's why we started it, which is why we chose our colleagues and colleagues on that committee to commit to it. It's their job, after all, at the end of the day, so they might as well be those detours if they need to have, to be a mediator between citizens and us or citizens and a particular institution that they have a problem with and ultimately to point out to us the problems we need to deal with. So, if we look at the structure of complaints and performances, you'll see that the judiciary and cancer are wounds, and that's from the report, you want any lawyer, you want our board, you want the complaints and the representations that we get from citizens. So if that's not our alarm, if that's not the alarm bell, if that doesn't tell us that we need to deal more seriously with the segment of the judiciary in the foreseeable future, then I don't know what else might point to this problem more clearly. What problems are in the judiciary I don't even have to tell you, I don't think that's the point of this debate. But I'll point out only from the experience of past convocations where I was a member of that committee most often. And these are unreasonablely long trials in front of the court, which are inconsistencies and in fact inconsistencies of judicial practice, and these are different injustices, let's say for objective and subjective reasons that our citizens face before the institutions of this state, and most often before the courts. If you are looking for a property dispute to last from the beginning of this state, and even before often, that 50 to 60 years of disputes, that the original defendants or prosecutors are long gone, then this must show us that there is a serious problem in the judiciary, not only for our citizens, but also for the security of the state as such, in terms of the security of investment, legal certainty, in terms of the entrepreneurial climate, and we know that the economy is then pulling everything else. Of course, civil security and ensuring the human rights of all our citizens, as well as the rights arising from the law. No, I would not agree, and I do not accept the assessment that this committee is unnecessary, that we, as advocates, should not be engaged in such performances and complaints by our citizens. How many can we solve this now is another issue that we can discuss, which should in some way be the measure of this debate among other things, but I think that the part of our job is communication with citizens and trying to help solve their problems. Of course, because of the education system that I blame most, our citizens often do not know for themselves what their rights are or how their representative or representative can help them, which institutions need to address and why. So we have situations that, and I'm sure you've experienced it in your practice, that the citizens are talking to you because of the judgments of power, that they're speaking to the attorney general, including the board, meaning with such matter that we can't possibly influence. But they also address the things we can and must influence and not close our eyes to any problems, whether we can do it by our authority, by creating public pressure, or through legislative proposals, government proposals, government issues, initiatives and so forth, which is also the meaning of representative democracy. Therefore, even though this committee is seen as a shoulder to cry on, it is the shoulder to cry on which we need it. Why? Like I said, we give our citizens hope that we're here for them anyway, which we are, but also to be indicators of what we should do. With the D.A.'s reports, I think it's actually one of the most important reports that comes in front of this, in front of this house. Just because there's a very clear unbiased cold statistical to say cold statistical review of where we as a system, as a state, whatever you want, means which segments we fall on. I would not now return to statistics, these are colleagues and colleagues before me instructions, but it is evident, there are areas in which we should pay extra attention through our parliamentary action, no matter where the board is, we are all members and members of different working bodies who have different powers and each in their segment should give maximum. I don't think we should re-concept our committees, or this one. I think we need to receptualize the government's relationship to this assembly. And that's true, that often ministers don't even come to the tides to defend their laws, that often they don't actually always come to committees, to send state secretaries, etc. It is something to change because their authority comes from this home whether you vote for them or not, their democratic legitimacy rests in this home, and our colleagues and fellow political legitimacy and democratic legitimacy rests on our citizens who have chosen us. And that's why we have to be their shoulder to cry about if it's necessary, but even more than that, we have to be their ear and be their mouth, listen to their problems, feel either and talk about them because if we don't, then we haven't done our job as agents. Therefore, colleagues and colleagues of the Social Democratic Party Club of Croatia will support this report and I hope that the next report of the board, as well as our attorney, will show us that we are still making some shifts, especially in these areas that we identified as the cancer of our early system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49684	Thank you. Here we are going to take another short break of 10 minutes, so I'll see you at 14 and 35 for the ventilation. MEETING IN 14.26 HOURS [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 14:33 A.M.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49686	My colleagues and colleagues. Enough has been said so far about how small this committee's options are, and how much expectations are actually high from the Committee on Presentations and Appeals. And I'm sure the president spoke nicely of it, and I think it's very visibly shown to us, and I'm convinced that it's the help of an association, and that's the Law Department's Legal Clinic. That's what students wear right at the start while they're still fresh, especially those who really came into the legal profession with all the enthusiasm that's expected, so not those who haven't been able to get into an art academy or I don't know where they wanted to go, so their parents made them right, but I'm talking about those who really want to. I'm sure this board of ours could work very well with, say, the legal clinic here now and in Rijeka founded, it's all happening now fresh in the 5th month. This Zagreb Legal clinic was in Koprivnica, especially since we know that the work of lawyers pro bono is not stimulated but in fact vice versa, they must even pay all the fees if they took someone pro bono and pretend it's all normal, and the people who address us to the Committee on Presentations and Appeals are really as it has been said here many times already today in every sense desperate people. Unfortunately, HRT would also expect this issue to give some space, but it does not do so, not because it would not still have great journalists, so it is still Labyrinth and there are shows and we know journalists and journalists on that television who besides being chicanated, except that the directorship is currently with this record of 36 criminal charges against its own journalists, a complete recordr of something inconceivable. And then how do you expect public service to help these people in their misery and in their torment? Nine years you said we had one of those cases here from 2012, now it's '21, which is continuously in the work of these committees and doesn't find a solution. There would be three shows such as that during the season that a round table that we can't do for epidemiological measures we can't achieve, the interest in this issue of course there is visible ruling party all cynicism and contempt towards, I'm also inappropriately laughing at it, but yes, I'm talking about it because it's really creepy to see at a time like this. So you'd expect a man to do something with his editorial policy to have at least three shows a year on the issues of people who have tried everything, tried everything, and can't get the legal help they should get, or their courts, we shouldn't do it, of course, because it would be a pressure on the judiciary. We have the right to put pressure on management, that we have the right to pressure it because we have this legitimacy and we should do it. But no, it doesn't happen on HRT, on the radio much more, on the radio anymore, but also there not systematically. And what I'm sure would be such round tables that would be on TV to make them more likely to be serious about these programs that are good at shortfall when the public service already doesn't do such a show, and it's interesting that commercial televisions have such shows. They are very much seen, some of them are the leaders or leaders of people who have done such things and who have done their craft for decades at public service, and then from there, by scribbling every kind of drive and coming to private commercial television and there are really excellent, but the nature of commercial television and media itself is spectacular to the misery and torment of these people and even against the will of the editors and journalists who are working on them, there is, after all, the mirage that turns the thing into a very, very, very common sentimental story which has a much more objective to shock the public and to, to be watched because it is something we can expect from commercial television. But the public television that this particular government allows to be so inconceivable that it could help the Committee on Presentations and Appeals, and in that sense I don't think it's necessary. Now, that would be, if we call something receptualizing as counterpart Selak Rasudiæ said, I think that might be the direction. In the end, I'd like to say that Mrs. Devereaux... The secretary of the board who certainly receives this torment on every day basis, let's not kid ourselves, psychologists who work with people in trouble, they have to go every once in a while to their mentors psychologists, as well as psychoanalysts and psychotherapists, because when you listen day after day to despair and torture some of the many people, and that's your job, that thing also fills you with a kind of PTSD. We have another job that isn't filled, the board of advisors got, so the two of them in this sense are doing, but the secretary, probably the president is there regularly and this very difficult and responsible and the big job is actually being left by my feeling exactly the big part of the secretary and I'm sure it can be strengthened by this committee and in such a way that citizens can feel that some things from here can really be rushed, but not in such a way that you have to send 16 rushes because that's, that's the contempt I'm talking about and where it's really just formally taking parliament, and in fact everything is happening somewhere else in some cabal of power that really is here for this short time that I'm in the assembly I can't figure out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49687	The next Club of Representatives will be that of the Centre and GLAS on behalf of which the respected representative Dalia Oreskovic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49688	My fellow MPs and MPs. I ask the question who despises who in the country in which HS directs the 10th haste to other state bodies and institutions in order to get an answer to the questions raised by citizens in their performances and complaints? And I would say that it is a state where the government despises its citizens, and unfortunately, the state in which HS as a representative body of citizens, as the holder of the legislative authority in the state despises itself or simply is not aware of the roles, tasks and purposes that in a democratic, at least on paper, a democratically arranged state has. And as long as we don't become a state where it's unacceptable for one constituency board to be in a position to send the first rush, so it's unacceptable, let alone wait for an answer, so send the second, the third, as you said to Mr. Matula, 16, 16 rushes. So until we get into a situation where something like this can never happen and in no context can we become a state in the fullest sense of that word. And it's not just that the state bodies don't match HS. National authorities shall not respond to other competent institutions either. I was myself president of the Committee for Decision on Conflict of Interest when we didn't get the documentation from other competent authorities. Let's just remember how many new councils there are problems, incomparably more than we have, when carrying out procedures relating to high-ranking politicians in the government and in other structures of power. It's not a state, it's a kidnapped state. And I repeat what I said on the previous agenda, until the ratio of power on the political scene changes, as long as the knights of corruption sit in their chairs, nothing in this country will go any better. I've always claimed that for every debate it's very important to be well prepared, well argued, but this is one of the few debates when I think it makes more sense to lead things to absurdity in order to actually explain the point. So here we have one of the parliamentary committees, in this committee as well as in most others there is the same majority that holds parliament. Therefore, in this Committee on Presentations and Appeals, HDZ has as many as 6 members, together with minorities, have their majority. This committee, held by HDZ citizens, is sending performances and complaints to put the judiciary aside now, to point to irregularities, violations of its rights committed by other state bodies and institutions which, at that time, are also held by HDZ. The Board of Appeals then sends requests for a delivery of evidence, documentation, haste to those same institutions that violate the rights of our citizens. That's what these other waves of HDZ institutions are deafening at the moment. The Committee reports on this by the Croatian Parliament, and among other things, representatives' clubs and the HDZ Club are shown to support and accept this committee's report, and at the end of this tragic ballad, the Croatian Parliament, through its parliamentary majority, which is now being adopted and adopted by the HDZ. And we're surprised that the citizens of the state institutions have absolutely no confidence whatsoever. I am surprised by this number of performances and complaints described and presented in this report, obviously it is very uninvited people because of the fact that they are not able to force other institutions to act in a timely manner and the answers are absolutely no use at all. And I have to agree here with what my colleague Rasdic said, aside from our other differences, but the fact is that the parliamentary committees that function in this way, and more or less all of them are losing their purpose. And if we are looking for a moment where the Croatian Parliament as a representative of the citizens and as the holder of the legislative authority has lost its power then it is through the work of the parliamentary committees. And when we talk about the need to create a new design, a new system of powers and competences of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament, I agree that it is necessary to move from amending the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. I am for reducing the number of committees, I am for adapting them to the number and content of individual ministries. It would be logical, in fact, that when the government represents its programme, when it says which and what number of ministries will have to form, accordingly, parliamentary committees that then follow the work of that government. Then we could also create a situation in which these parliamentary committees have a legislative initiative and in which they control the work of the ministry and the minister of resolution that the Croatian Parliament is choosing. And I described all of this in the proposal to amend the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, which I sent to the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system long ago. To this day, I have not received my answer, not even here, not bhu. And one of the things that writes there besides what she said today, colleague Rasdic, is that, in fact, to introduce these changes, something else needs to be changed. In order to play a different role, therefore, a more significant role of the parliamentary committees in order to give it a legislative initiative or to encourage a legislative initiative related to the work of a particular resolution ministry should also have a greater specialisation of the representatives sitting on a committee. If the Health Committee would be logical to have there, I welcome the incoming HDZ representatives to see you, shortly before there was absolutely no one from your ranks in the assembly, so much about the importance of this topic for discussion. And in order to have a greater specialty, for example, to have more doctors on the Health Committee, it is necessary to stop the practice of how the Assembly Committees work. It is corrupt and corrupt, the consequence of the trade that is happening before the Croatian Parliament itself is established. And I repeat, all that we're saying is that we need to structurally change that the rights of our citizens wouldn't be a dead letter on paper starts on election day, starts by changing forces on the political scene, and right now there's a battle between those who are looking for new design, a new structure, which is looking for something new in substance, although many of them don't belong to my color of political spectrum, I'm the Center. I support all those who can break the existing ratio of power to get into a situation so that in election processes we do not compete with insults, slanders, manipulations and lies, but with content, so we will seek out which of us has something more quality to offer to all our citizens. And when we come to this level of culture, mutual appreciation and consideration that we will accept one segment that comes from the opposite side of the political spectrum or from a direct political opponent if it is a proposal that has its meaning and which has its weight. And if I look at the work of this committee for a little while, I'm glad if this committee has a comprehensive database that's not right in the system, but the citizens themselves know it, so they've also described what's wrong with the plays and the complaints they're making. I think that the task of this committee as well as many others should be that then the detected problem is described, but no, not floscula, it is not enough to say, for example, that the judiciary is a cancer of wounds, it is necessary to say what is really wrong, why a particular object has long been in the process, why we have not solved the state of the country's library, why in the City of Zagreb to this day we have not solved about 30,000 property legal disputes, if not more. So it is at the Croatian Parliament to offer a solution, to determine what is the epilogue of all the performances and complaints submitted. Citizens expect a solution, when they see institutions bring their story to an end or say this could not be solved, we have found that the law is not right, so we have proposed to amend it in this way, and then the meaning of the concepts and complaints will come to some importance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49689	We move to an individual debate and will be the first to speak with a respected representative of Domagoj Hajduković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49690	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, I would like to share with you a specific case why I think this committee should not only continue to exist but also half, but to intensify its work. In fact, a small town of Vinkovac, a Croatian military invalid who gave the best part of his life, and also his health for our freedom, and a man who has modest, modest incomes stemming from that status, and who wanted to collapse in a place where he had, of course, done with the loan, educated more of his wonderful children, thank God they all finished or finished schooling will probably also be employed in due time, etc., so they would say a beautiful story of a man who did not allow war horrors to destroy him than who continued to build in his society and his family, etc. But there's something else going on, and that's that the bank where the gentleman had the loan at one point decided why, we don't know that. At least I don't know it's a high-risk loan and decided to resell it. So it's like reselling debts. After that, the man is in trouble because the company that bought the debt squeezed him to repay the full debt means what he already paid off the bank and what he didn't, it's a whole series of problems, legal pins and financials that I can't tell you about, because I just don't get enough of that level of financial and legal knowledge in this particular case. So, this man comes to me as an aid counsel. I've talked to a lot of people and spent a lot of energy to get feedback practically that it's wise to refinance it, re-indebt it, etc., and I forgot to mention that a man doesn't deny the debt, he's willing to pay it back, but in some reasonable amount, so he doesn't take all the receipts, so that his house is not done because it's the only property in which the good part of the family still lives, so everything should be clear to the dog what it's said. Clearly, his heirs, or heirs, will one day continue to pay off the debt if he remains, if he does not repay it for his lifetime. They'd say the creditor in this case is pretty secure or they'd take the house if they didn't want to pay it anymore, but in any case, it's protected. But I'm saying now this company that bought out the debt has one completely different approach to this problem and the gentleman is talking to me. This is the answer I got first of all from the people who deal with finance because I say my knowledge in that segment is not up to this problem. And then, aside from this, of course, I told the gentleman what I found out in the conversations that I recommended to him. I recommended that he report to the Ministry of Defence to see if they could direct him or help him in any way and I recommended two other institutions, one of them being the attorney general, and the other being the Committee on Presentations and Appeals. I don't know if the play has arrived yet, I believe it will arrive at some reasonable time, but I want to tell you with my knowledge and circles simply where I'm moving because in the Croatian Parliament and my professional life I'm simply dealing with some other things I'm not up to solving this problem, I admit it. But there is one whole committee, there are institutions that deal with this and if the Committee on Presentations will be able to help or at least refer to the right instance, to a legal remedy or so, since we have listened to how much our citizens have been denied and for free legal aid then this committee and its raison d'etre, or the reason for existence, is absolutely justified. The Talmud says who saves one life saved the whole world, and so do we, if we help a citizen we helped the whole of Croatia, and if we help a citizen solve his big existential problem we have completed our task more than 100%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49691	We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49692	Thank you very much. My dear colleague, I'm going to underline the three things you've listed now in this exhibit and the one before. It's a conversation, communication with citizens, but it's all of us together and the third thing is that we're here because of our citizens, they don't even have to be our voters. I'm going to give you an example of health care, often briefly to describe what bad or good communication means and what it means to help citizens. A recent patient from my county who could no longer exercise the right to a travel order came to me, and for years she wrote it to the Institute of tumours, so she complained to the family doctors, the HZZO office, the ministry, and in the end she recently wrote to the Health Committee and then came to me. I studied all the documentation, and then I tried to see what the problem was, called the family doctor, and we actually realized that it was only necessary to explain to the lady that you no longer have the right to a travel order because you have a new department in Međimurje And there you can do everything and the lady was pleased. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49693	Dear Representative Hajdukovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49694	Thank you very much, colleague Maric, I absolutely agree that communication is better I believe that a lot of these problems would be much easier to solve and much less energy to solve these problems would be spent by a citizen in this sense, and then you and all the other institutions involved. Unfortunately, if you are informically written by our pages of competent ministries, the institution often does not provide good information, often pages are non-transparent, non-intuitive, you simply cannot get the right information. You often get to ask different institutions from the same resistor that I have experienced, how to solve a problem, and each one gives you another interpretation. So there must be a way to say the established practice, perhaps some central portal for citizens and their enquiries or something like that which might then direct them in a way that quickly, as painlessly solve the problem, but of course communication is always something that is desirable if you don't... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49695	Thank you. The next is the replica of the respected representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49696	This is a very important issue to which we, as an individual Committee on Presentations and Appeals, can contribute to the cooperation and problem-solving of our citizens, and I am interested in how often citizens appear to you, whether you have had negative experiences, because let's say the basic problem that I have in communicating with citizens is the fact that, of course, they clearly want answers to specific problems, but maybe we have also misinformed them about the opportunities that we have to address these problems. So often those whose actions, court proceedings are still pending, and we can't intervene. On the other hand, it can happen if you even get into communication that it is a very demanding and extensive job at least solving one case, and if you do your job well as a parliamentary representative, there are a lot of citizens who will want the same thing from you. How do you find a balance here?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49697	Thank you. Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49698	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Members, I think the question is absolutely standing, and here I am, in fact, the whole debate I was based on exactly that. I was approached by a man whose problem with my knowledge simply cannot be solved, I don’t know what to advise a man to help him and to whom to direct him. The fact that we have a committee that deals exclusively with such matters can help us as agents in our work. Not that we're transferring hot potatoes or some question that citizens are telling us about them, but that this committee is really trying to solve this problem in communication with the competent institutions. The citizens come to us every day and I believe neither you nor I nor the other colleagues and colleagues are the exception here. Some really have problems that need engagement and solving, perhaps in the form of public pressure and pointing to a problem. Some have problems, unfortunately, as you have told the judgments, but the problem is that citizens do not know what their representative or representative role is in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49699	Thank you. Honorable representative of Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49700	Thank you. Dear Representative Hajdukovic, you mentioned an example of a man who came into the trap of a claim collection agency, which, like this, sounds like a mild name and something like this logical, actually for the interest industry. It's nothing but an international green industry that disrespects but no human rights, calls at any time of the day and night, intimidates in every way possible. At the same time, Mrs. Maric also mentioned how important communication is, you mentioned the portal, I am convinced that what these people feel is a galloping feeling without meaning. It's just communication that allows them to be recognized, to admit that they see that they are recognized in their torment and in their misery.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49701	Thank you. Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49702	Thank you very much, colleague Matula. I think you're absolutely right, you even reminded me that the gentleman was telling me that from that company that bought out the debt really called him at both time and not time and in the middle of the night and early in the morning and during the holidays, Sunday. So it's a kind of psychic terror. So one psychic terrorism that probably breaks people mentally, and I guess that's his goal. What our citizens feel, this particular one is helplessness, helplessness, hopelessness. Why? I'm telling you again, so he doesn't deny the debt, he wants to pay it back, but he doesn't want to pay back three times as much as he did in debt, and he wants to pay it back at some reasonable amount every month, through monthly meals that then his successors would continue to return if he returned for his life. So here we're talking about the legal security of our citizens and we're going back to the cancer wound, and that's the judiciary. as much as it can affect this problem. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49703	Honorable representative Petyr will speak now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49704	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Representatives and MPs, I think that this debate is important and that it is good that we have extended it because by discussing the work of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals and the role of other committees, we may in fact also be able to deny those who think and say that the Assembly is not so important an institution and that the work of the representatives is not sufficiently recognised. This is indicated by a number of research that we have had the opportunity to witness which shows that there is in fact a lack of confidence, one deficit of democracy, and even our research that has said that every third student is in fact an attitude that democracy as such should be abolished, and then institutions. And if it's always so spinning and recycling, then it's no wonder that there's an impression of the impotence of this institution, and I don't think so, and I'm going to try to back it up with what I've noticed as president of the Agriculture Committee, the performances that we get on our board and ultimately the results that we achieve when we react to each play. I've looked at it fast in the last eight months as far as I'm at the head of that board, and I've received 221 acts, and I've responded to every one of them. So it was about the performances and complaints of farmers, organisations, associations, alliances, municipalities, cities of course related to the topics covered by the Committee on Agriculture. It would have turned out if we had refused the days off if we had been in at least 2 of the acts we received each day, it was written documents, so I didn't even add up what we do on the phone where we can direct people and distract them to places where they can find information or share information with them that we have on the basis of some of our experiences. It says that actually the committees are doing very seriously, they have their hands full and that when we talk about the number of complaints or some acts or citizens' conversions, then it's not just about the Committee on Presentations and Appeals, then it's not just like the previous debates said those 190, but it could be added to these 221, and I believe that that other committees could be upgraded, so we would come up with a more serious number which then showed that it wasn't even so irrelevant and that the MPs weren't so powerless and that we had an impact on what they probably say and the results, feedback that we get, and I can't complain about it. There may have been a few exceptions, but in most cases we get answers within a reasonable period, and what I am happy to do is always to give a proposal to maybe a potential solution or to support certain good initiatives that, at times, result in the introduction of some measures that will be useful for our farmers in the long term, for our local self-government, for our citizens in the rural environments that we are committed to, which we actually want to provide for the best standards of life. You understand, of course, that the largest number of these concepts and complaints were related to agricultural land. This is where we expect, and so the ministry announced that we will soon receive in the parliamentary procedure a new draft of the Agricultural Land Act where I hope that exactly what farmers are complaining about, what municipalities and cities are complaining about will in some way be removed through this new Agricultural Land Act. They can agree when we think about a future way of working at the moment when the Rules of Procedure will come to our debate that we may be able to think about a way of working that would allow the committees to join one week, so that indeed the committees work all that week to be fully dedicated to these professional topics, because the committees are doing mining work and doing serious work for which they should be prepared seriously, read a lot of documents, collect a lot of bases to be able to make good suggestions, and then next week be a plenary session. This is very demanding, we combine all together in different ways and sometimes it's just hard to be in two places at the same time that we're all witnesses here today because we haven't yet developed some abilities that we could use in this business. I just want to say, in conclusion, that I think the council can certainly help. citizens in solving their problems. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49705	We also have on your presentation of multiple replicas, the first respected representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49706	Perhaps the basic problem of differences in the quality of the work of individual committees, or those who are at their head, is the creation of a general picture that is not necessarily always good about the work of the board as such, and then the resulting and work of parliamentary representatives. I agree in this respect that we should go towards reorganising the Committee's work in particular with regard to the work of the Assembly, and I myself have proposed a reduction of the board so that we can all qualify professionally and then make a concrete contribution to specific committees, not having 100 functions, and neither of us performs quality. When we discuss the work of this committee that has served us as platforms for discussion on all other committees, my question would be whether you think about this in terms of how directly citizens appear to you, to your committee that we need a separate Committee on Presentations and Appeals, or whether there are individual committees on topics that can then be reported by citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49707	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49708	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Representative Selak Rasdic, so I think all these committees have a role to play would not dare now propose which committee may need to be abolished. I think that committees should be given more space to work and that they can breathe and that they can carry out their activities uninterruptedly. As a committee, we hold a very large number of thematic sessions because, in communication with people on the ground, we consider ourselves to be folk representatives and that our job is to address these problems further and to propose certain solutions. For these thematic sessions, we just need to keep it physically for 2 to 3 hours, and for preparation, it sometimes takes weeks to analyze, explore, collect data. So I would not say that any committee is less important but that committees should be given that one wider space for work where MPs will be able to be fully committed to the problem that has been put before them.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49709	Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49710	Thank you very much. My colleagues, Petir, run such a committee that is more specialized in ropes and to which citizens report. I know, I know, I've heard from them with the same problem even though I'm not even a member of the board, but you've done, say, the Thematic Session of the Seed Act and so on, so some problems can be dealt with in a way. Let's just say on my board, the Committee on European Affairs is less public than citizens because simply not, this topic is not so much about creating problems for citizens in everyday life. What you might consider is that discussions on committees, at least in my experience, are much more focused and much more professional perhaps this way of working that you have proposed. For example, the Hungarian Parliament has three weeks for a committee meeting, or a week for working in election units, two weeks for committees and only one week for plenum. This should be the highlight, not the meaning. The point is just the committees.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49711	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49712	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Hajdukovic, I can bring out experiences from the European Parliament. There is a week-long meeting of political groups that are all structured in a way that actually have their working groups covering the competence of individual committees, where, in fact, before the committee meetings that are weeks behind it, the full regulation is being considered which could be improved, in which way it is set up on a particular subject, where something can be fixed. Then next week, the committee meeting and the entire week are held exclusively by committees that organise very many hearings and which are extremely useful, and then the third week is the plenary session. And in that sense, it was a great experience for me because we really had time to do that real job that is to prepare every plenary session advocate, which is to do through committees what can be done.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49713	Dear representative Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49714	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, we hope that at least some citizens still follow what we say and that they will reach out to them the message that we have tried to convey that we are here for them, that communication is important, that there are committees that they can address and that still something that we are all on boards and committees and services themselves are doing something. You stated that you received some 220 performances on the Committee on Agriculture. I've been asking for information for the Health Committee, and we're here about 220. Although this parent committee, which is now the proposer today, I believe that by the number of acts, it classifies the items. We have a number of different e-mails here. So one case probably means multiple e-mails. I think that there is a very important cooperation with the Board of Appeals and Presentations and all other committees and that each of these committees has the importance of being a service to the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49715	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49716	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I agree with Representative Maric. Each committee is important and is dedicated to certain specificities and are mostly people who specialize in certain topics that have both experience and may also know how to get certain information where advice can be sought or where citizens can be directed. But also, citizens can, apart from the Committee on Presentations and Appeals and other committees, address directly to representatives who, either through the instruments of the parliamentary question or through direct address to a competent authority, can look for that information and can say that in that segment somehow my experience is positive. What we may not have been able to touch is the fact that the county congregations have their own committees and have committees on representations and complaints, but the experience is that citizens always prefer to address the heads of individual state bodies, as well as the mayors, and less committees.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49717	Thank you. The Honorable representative Oreshkovic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49718	Dear Representative Petir, you have perfectly described where this country's key problem is, and as long as HDZ authorities do so will obviously remain that way. Therefore, this report states that bodies which, for example, do not respond within a reasonable time frame to the requests of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals, I read in order. Ministry of Justice and Administration, Ministry of Science and Education, Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure. So, the ministries. And we're in a situation where a government-chosen Parliament, which controls the government, can't get an answer from the ministers from that government to the asked question, and you say that the system actually works. And you're also interpreting how citizens can directly address MPs and how you as a representative of the ruling majority have the power and the role to play in solving citizens' problems, and you know where the problem is in this country. In that relationship that when you're near the power of prayer you hear when you're not, you don't exist.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49719	Thank you very much. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49720	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Representative Oreskovic, I am sorry that you are constantly bitter and performing destructively and half-hearing what anyone is saying. I put a lot of effort into my work as board president, so will those who are the opposition and who are part of the ruling majority from preparing sessions to offering a solution without criticism and without limiting any opinion. We try to act as a team when it comes to this segment, because we want to help the people who chose us here. I speak from experience. Experience has it that every act we have submitted to the competent authorities has been answered within a reasonable period of time. If it could be faster, it could certainly be faster. It is also quite clear that it is difficult to respond to something relating to the judicial processes that Mrs Posavec-Krivec said was one of the largest volumes of their performances, you know that we as representatives can neither interfere. The question of how many can the Justice Department answer, but he has to answer if he doesn't know the answer or he's gone.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49721	Dear representative Zmajić has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49722	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Petir, from personal experience as chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, you have referred to the basic Committee on Presentations and Appeals, informing us that more than 220 written complaints have arrived on your board. I wonder if there were any solutions to the positive, or what results are related to these complaints received? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49723	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49724	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Representative Zmajić, so we received answers to these performances that we referred to the authorities. In the part relating to the issue of water supply or to aid measures for farmers because they were in a difficult situation because of the covid of the crisis or even some of the acts which were in the jurisdiction of other ministries of law, which were affected by farmers, we found solutions with the competent Ministry of Agriculture or when it comes to water supply with the competent Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development. As I have said, the largest number of objections comes right into the agricultural land segment, and here we expect the ministry to announce a new draft law on agricultural land in the procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49725	Thank you very much. The next debate will be respected MPs Selak-Raspadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49726	In the exhibition on behalf of the club, I said in principle what our position on the work of all committees is and how it could be repurposed or reformed in order to better serve their purpose, better articulate our quality and thus contribute to the work of the Parliament and the satisfaction of Croatian citizens. In this individual debate, since I'm not sure how much we're really going to reform the work of all committees or go towards what I thought would be most useful, which is their reduction. I will concentrate more on some concrete proposals and remarks on the work of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals, which may be useful in the next period during which the Committee will act. In this regard, authors who have dealt more seriously with the Committee on Presentations and Appeals highlight different problems. Let us say what is important to know is that the Committee on Presentations and Appeals for the fact that most citizens are not only objecting to it, but it is only one of the instances to which their complaint is going and that these complaints are most often not anonymous shows that this is the last instance addressed by citizens as a means of assistance. Well, then we can talk about him as well as about the shoulder to cry on. Once we've exhausted all the options, we've got the Board of Representatives and Appeals left. Why is that? Is that what our responsibilities are and can it be fixed? If we are really going to leave this committee, then we should make sure that it is the first or one of the first instances to be addressed by the citizens. Secondly, there are also different business opportunities for other committees to co-operate with the Committee on Presentations and Appeals, particularly with regard to the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. The question is how much they really cooperate. It is also a question of how much they really cooperate and how much cooperation should be given to the Committee on Presentations and Appeals with the Advocate General and to what extent their affairs are overlapping, i.e. whether the Committee on Presentations and Appeals is a specific subset of the Office of the Advocate General. If this really is so in its own circle, then the question is, does it make sense that there is a separate committee? Because as a basic problem, we point out that citizens are unable to assess what the body is there for their problem to help them specifically because of the existence of parallel bodies. At the same time, since we often even get some problems in person, we see that citizens in that confusion are sending their problems to us, so to one committee, to another committee, to the government office and to 20 addresses. We do not feel enough responsibility if we feel any responsibility for us to deal with their problem in particular. The same goes for the committee they address or when they address us as a committee. So citizens address everyone because they do not know which body is responsible for their problem. We should define them broad, serious, clear campaign unequivocally. And the related problem is because of the fact that they address a larger number of bodies, we often keep quiet or do not feel that we are the main responsibility to deal with their problem. So that's also the point to be considered, because ultimately it leads to the divergence of individual problems and the legitimate dissatisfaction of our citizens who are being viewed in a single call to institutions that are then considered not to be doing their job, and are here to directly communicate with them and then, in general, we have fewer than 50% of the citizens who actually give their trust to us or go to elections. One of the other key factors in improving the work of this committee is, for example, the speed of response, acceptance of complaints and even their own resolution. Therefore, commendations for all that is determined would be a good indicator of the committee’s ability to justify its work. This is not an indicator that it worked badly, but maybe it can't justify its own detour, so that's why we need reform.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49727	Thank you. Dear Representative Hajdukovic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49728	My colleagues, Selak-Raspudic, I only have one thing to point out from your debate. So, the Attorney General's institution in my opinion is complementary and not exclusive to our committee. It is even part of the parliamentary tradition if we talk about what you have already said, but every representative body in the Republic of Croatia therefore has a similar body. So, which citizens can address as a part of the circle, for the problems of their work. What's our work cycle? All of it. Practically everything. Because we are the legislative body and the main representative body. In my view, bigger problems are that citizens are not informed about their rights, that they do not know who they can address and what problem, which we still do not have civil education in our education system. And the second is that some institutions are systematically deafening themselves about the memos of this committee, the Parliament, you, me as a representative. So it's one disrespect and a minorization of the largest representative body.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49729	Thank you. Dear representative Selak-Raspudic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49730	And I pointed that out with concrete examples. Indeed, if we do not receive answers from competent institutions, we cannot do our job. However, as a legislative body in the division of power, we are indeed limited in our actions. As regards this committee and the duplication of different bodies that can do similar work, it does not necessarily have to be a practice where this would allow pluralism in the sense that citizens have more institutions to do more work for it. But I think it's unfortunately happening to us the opposite, which is that because they don't know what their rights are, and at least they know why they need this board, and that's where we should change something if they even know that there are citizens showing up to a large number of institutions of which, in the end, none of them are seriously dealing with their problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49731	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49732	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleague Selak-Raspadic. As much as I somehow have some disagreements with the actions of the former attorney general, and I think she should have done both differently and better, it seems more objective to me that she has a role of her own, a public defender and a committee has a role to play. The occupier should be independent, yet there are MPs who belong to different political options. And as much as we try to be objective and objective to everyone, the equally open question is whether that's how we always do it with regard to the political structures that we belong to. So I'd like to know how you meant it when you said it might be a good idea to put the Board of Representatives and the Advocate General in one body or give them the exact same role so that they might violate this independence.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49733	Representative Selak-Raspudic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49734	I understand the question, thank you. So what I wanted to ask as a question here is that we are dealing with the best model of treatment that will benefit our citizens because they have not really established a direct enough relationship with us. If they did, then our choices would look different. We've got a problem and we need to regain consciousness, try to find out where. The question was, therefore, if it was the Committee on Presentations and Appeals and deals with the specific problems of citizens, was he not a subset of what was in the prosecutor's office in the sense that she could act, unlike us, to directly solve these problems which was once the role of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals, and he had his power in earlier times lost by a division of power. Because I'm not saying that the board is necessarily to be abolished, but we certainly need to see how it is repurposed to make it more active and functional. That would actually be my message.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49735	Thank you. The next debate will be the respected representative of Goran Ivanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49736	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, the Honorable President of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals, colleagues, colleagues. So here is a member of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals, I think it is also the duty to come here for the Croatian Parliament's pay phone and to say something that this committee and what this committee is facing is not through this tenth meeting, but since here is the Croatian Parliament. Someone said it was one of the oldest committees when it came to the work of the Croatian Parliament at all. This problem can be seen of course from several aspects, but I will be the one to defend that this committee should exist absolutely. If we don't have a Committee on Presentations and Appeals in the Croatian Parliament, I think we would end something here that citizens would like as some sort of last straw of salvation whether we can help them mostly, because these items are already being handled through certain institutions and simply through our haste and all that the board is doing can at least listen to their problems. We can face this real world where these people live. Domagoj Hajdukovic said something about a specific case. I was a deputy mayor, and I always point out, and most of the time, people who have problems like that can't solve it for five, ten, or fifteen years and go to bed with them and wake up in the morning with them. It's not that simple. Yet, when they come somewhere when they talk to someone, somehow after that, at least let them feel a little better in that psychological aspect. In order for it to be better, more, more strongly, I couldn't agree more. But there's an institution thing. We can't even influence the work of the judiciary in that sense or whatever these cases are about. But what we can do as parliamentary representatives, and we who are members of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals can read these plays that people send to us as board members. And when a man reads, he doesn't feel at all comfortable. These are the lives of entire families who are related to these subjects. And our power, or impotence, is simply defined. We can't do more than that. I would, of course, like to commend the people especially the secretary here is Mrs. Krpin, who is working daily on these items that are arriving at the Croatian Parliament. I think these people are doing a good job. Here we are only going to be almost a year, here we are not yet a year as the board is formed. As far as the Committee's work is concerned, I think it works as necessary as many plays and complaints arrive, to discuss it, and I think that the report may be in 2021. let us at least hint at some of the things that we, as a committee, can suggest when it comes to amending perhaps the Rules of Procedure and when it comes to the work of the Croatian Parliament, i.e. the promotion of this committee. After all, it is also our duty as board members to recognize certain things, so that eventually and preventively, but not preventively, but also in that action section we show more power than it might be right now. Therefore, this is good for the public to even know that there is such a committee in the Croatian Parliament. Well, it's good for the public to know that there's someone here who can come to the phone, and I think that's all we can do. I do not agree that it should be abolished, although absolutely not because I think that with this very democratic practice in the Croatian Parliament, we would end what I do not think is absolutely good. That it can do more, stronger and better to agree with it and here as a member of the board I will work with both the president and the vice president and all the members, and there are most Slavonians on that committee if you notice the six of us are members of the Committee on Presentations and the complaints we will give our pain and make it possible in 2021, 2022 it will be much better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49737	There are several replicas on your display. The first is the respected representative of Zmajic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49738	Thank you, Vice President. Kolega Ivanovic, from statistical data, Reports on the work of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals can be seen that 491 items were received in 2013, in 306 items, 2015. 349 items and here are back two years from 2019 is 211 and last 2020 190 cases. How do you comment on the downward path of submissions and complaints? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49739	Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49740	Thank you very much. Well, you can watch it double. Maybe one piece of the case is solved, so people don't show interest here anymore, or they don't write to us anymore. On the other hand, what part of the MPs here stressed is that people just don't believe in that institute anymore, so they don't even talk to him for that reason because they know they might not solve anything. It's statistics. It's hard to answer what these parameters are that affect it from 490 to 190. I wish there were fewer, and each one was solved by those. Then I think it makes absolutely sense, so I hope so. It is important that every case is received, important that every case is discussed, that institutions that need to be dealt with are sent to the institutions, and that is the task that we need to carry out as board members.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49741	The Honorable representative Oreshkovic has a word.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49742	Dear Representative Ivanovic, here's what I'm going to try to tell you gently that I'm not always destructive and that I'm attacking you. So when we talk about what kind of state we want and what kind of state the citizens need here, it's known that I want a state where HDZ doesn't rule. But it's on the side now. Where's the problem with this board's work and where's the problem with what you're talking about? You say the citizens sent complaints, we read it all nicely and passed it on to the authorities and there's the story over. Unfortunately, the story is over, and that's why citizens don't believe in a state like this, in institutions like this, and ultimately in a committee like this. I think we need the board, but not this powerless. The meaning of this committee ends at the moment when the citizen who described the problem that the state does not solve will ultimately be solved. And if any of the problems that have been detected here have been solved, there is not one single letter in the report itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49743	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49744	Thank you very much. First of all, first of all. The fact that you, Mrs. Oreshkovic, would like us to have a Croatia where there is no HDZ in Croatia will remain your unfulfilled dream. It is not up to you, but voters who go to elections and trust candidates and candidates of the Croatian Democratic Union. As for this, we're not a court and let's not deal with it, let's not give ourselves the authority we don't have. We don't have those powers. And those who send performances and complaints to us know that we can't push this case forward, we can't make a decision that will be the solution. We can forward it, we can hurry it. I believe that the parliamentary representative in the Republic of Croatia has more weight than local, regional leaders, and that should be a major accelerator to those where we send the case, that they believe he has arrived from the Croatian Parliament and that he may be a priority in solving the case in question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49745	Dear Representative Blažević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49746	Thank you, Vice President. Here's what I have to agree with, absolutely, is that we need this committee. I think counsel Petir mentioned that there are also committees at local level for complaints and submissions of citizens. However, I am interested in this committee of yours. In fact, I am a member of two committees and we have quite a constructive debate and there is no overvote in voting I will say so in view of the political membership of the board members. I am also interested in how the discussion is under way in your Committee on Presentations and Appeals and whether the vote shows the political membership of a member of the board, or whether you are outvoted, given that you are discussing life problems for citizens and that these are issues that ultimately concern all of us so that we can improve their, or our lives.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49747	Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49748	Thank you very much. Well, we haven't had a lot of sessions, have we, President, just two or three sessions as much time as there has been for all of this. I can tell you that as far as the atmosphere on the board is concerned, it's good. But let's be honest, we're just here to get acquainted with the items, not to overvote whether or not an item should be placed on the agenda, so I think that, I would even like to see most parliamentary representatives read some of the items. It would be really good to see what these problems have been that people have been unable to help for years and cannot solve these problems. And here is the appeal for me, as a parliamentary representative, that everything that comes from the Croatian Parliament, and this is about performances and complaints against the institutions of the state, should be put into priority and be resolved immediately.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49749	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the rapporteur, the Honorable Chairman of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals, Ivana Posavec Krivec, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49750	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. At the end of this debate, there is only one thing left for me to thank you all together for taking part in this debate and for actually helping the members and members of the board to present what is the essence of the working body of the Croatian Assembly of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals to be here, to hear our citizens, to have their hand extended to the institutions and to help them solve their pressing problems for them. Maybe it's hard to talk about statistical indicators here, data, whether it's something big or small. We didn't collect entry and exit documents here, we didn't collect conversations and calls. We were here specifically talking about our citizens' problems, about 2020, about 190 fates. And each of these fates is extremely important and it is essential that they have in the highest, or legislative body of the Republic of Croatia to whom we address and that, through all our discussions in this House, regardless of the topics we are talking and discussing, we always have these citizens who are facing problems and that we try these problems that we have seen, which they have indicated to implement into other legal solutions to make this country better, to make it more effective for all its citizens. I believe that in such a spirit, in one understanding and not overvote in the party frameworks, we can contribute to the democratic hearing of the voice of citizens and that they can, in fact, indirectly through us, affect changes in legal solutions. First of all, and finally, with thanks to all the members and members of the board for their contribution to the work, I want to thank our officials, officials who are at our citizens' disposition every day and who actually accept those fates, and their problems and later on, introduce us to them and try to solve them through other bodies. So we know we're not all-powerful. We know that we cannot contribute much, but we believe that no matter what reorganization of this committee is imagined in the future this committee must continue to act within the Croatian Parliament because it is a democratic tool for our citizens to hear their voice. In this term, we will make an effort at the very beginning of the work to be as transparent as possible, to be available, to interest our colleagues and colleagues here in this Parliament for our work and to show in fact how important it is to discuss in the Croatian Parliament every problem of our citizens. So at the very end, thank you all for your participation in today's debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49751	Thank you. We have one replica of Honorable counsel Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49752	Thank you, esteemed Vice President, dear colleague Posavec The Guilty. Keeping in mind that citizens are actually our employer and that we are their people's representatives absolutely safe and this call that you made in the end is worth it and we should all take it seriously here to focus our work and activities towards the well-being of our citizens, so that none of their address, representation or complaint remains aside or underrated, that we do all we can to make their rights come true here, of course, to the cooperation of all the state bodies to which we are directed. And thanks to all the employees of all the parliamentary committees who are committed to their work and who are doing this work diligently, honestly and busyly. Only with such synergy can we actually get a better result and show that the Croatian Parliament deserves a much higher grade than it does today in the eyes of citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49753	Thank you. Here's the distinguished representative, Posavec, the guilty.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49754	Thank you, dear colleague Petyr. I think it would be best to just say that I agree with you and hope that in this very spirit we will show in this four-year term that we have used here for almost a year to show another face of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-05-27-0.u49755	Thank you all very much. I'm concluding a debate on this point. We'll vote on it when the conditions are met. We'll continue work tomorrow, Friday 28. May at 9.30. The first item will be the Final Proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement on the Illicit Trade in the Sea by which Article 17 applies. United Nations Conventions against illicit drug trafficking and psychotropic substances, second reading. Have a good afternoon! Session adjourned at 14.50 p.m.
