ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u42815	Fourth debated colleague Nikola BArtulica on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u42816	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and fellow MPs. I'll also look back at local elections. Everyone declares victory, some even colossal victories, but I'll try to be realistic and say something about the changes that happen that I think are good. You wouldn't want to live in what's-his-name. a controlled democracy where certain winners from the position of power determine who can and who must not participate in a political game, that is not what our citizens want, they clearly sent it. And that's good, let him live his freedom and let everyone fight for the vote in the electoral body. However, what seems clear from our perspective from the Homeland Movement is that even leading people in the country, Mr Milanović and Plenkovic, who can agree on nothing, can't even sit at a common table agree that the Homeland Movement is very disturbing. Mr. Milanovic even said that we don't exist so here I am standing at a pay phone in the Parliament, speaking, I got the word, we have a club, we have a lot of sympathies and members on the ground, so I'm sure we exist. However, I would strongly say a reflection of arrogance is being expressed in public by such attitudes as should be guided by a certain option. Mr. Milanovic even at one point seemed to me to be speaking to the status of war hero who personally participated in the Homeland War and calling others, but I think that citizens should be aware that there is not only a lot of arrogance but also hypocrisy on the political scene. But what you would also say is that it is visible in our public space and what's good to expose is an interesting network that even exceeds ideology. So we have a question about how public funds are used for various things and what is the end benefit for Croatian society. I think it's legitimate, I think it's unfair to keep pointing a finger at us now after this campaign that we've done something that's not allowed in politics, but I think it's very good that citizens get a full picture. It's a little ungrateful, let's say, but we'll keep it going, I'll keep going. Here I'll say from personal experience, I've run an association for over ten years, and I haven't received any kunas or city budgets, or any kunas, so we have different approaches to civil society. Some opt for professional activistism, so they charge well what they do and make a skillful withdrawal of money. We have another example, let's say more modestly, I've only worked to say with volunteers all the time, so that's all I'd say is big differences and it's quite legitimate to talk about it. But what is important is to use often times and fear, but we also see a particular interest behind the background that is often invisible and should actually be explained and persistently, persistently point to the right state. We don't think the media or some journalists are guilty, they may be in the reporting bias and they might be more objective, but we won't be looking for the guilty in that way. So it seems to me that this really opens up a new era in Croatian politics, things and cards interfere, everyone can declare themselves winners. But in the end, this question is also asked, is the structure of a state with so many units of local self-government actually serving individual parties to humanize and install their people's jobs or is it how they should be in the service of the development of our country and the prosperity of the people? I don't think the other one is, unfortunately, and we need to talk about it seriously because in a few years, there won't be enough people to fill out all those lists in the election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u43008	We are going to a third debate, a respected colleague of Dalia Oreskovic on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u43009	Thank you, Chairman. Dear MPs and MPs, I told this speaker on Friday that next week after the local elections, I wanted to wake up in a different, better Croatia. And here we are. By changing authorities in the environments that were HDZ's fortifications, voters said they had had had had enough corruption. The same message was sent to other political parties that were corruptly marked in their cities or municipalities. From Pula to Oroslavlje through Dalmatia, especially Split, and until Zagreb, a wave of change began, and I am convinced that their wave will be unstoppable. But the elections showed that there are two Croatians. One Croatia is the one in which the HDZ as a political party in power as a conductor gives the pace of campaigning, intimidation as opponents and voters, campaign threats and blackmail campaigns because in order to understand differently the message to voters that to realize projects and to achieve the quality of life of citizens in certain environments it is necessary to verticalise authorities, pure blackmail and a clean threat and I am glad that voters have said a lot to such policy. The voters also said that they are aware of the differences between the self-grateful image of the government and the tragedy they feel in their own skin in all segments that are important to their life of incompetence, corruption, clientelism and nepotism. In other Croatia, all of us, all of us who are aware that the water has reached the throat. All of us who received voters' votes above all by noting quality candidates, but by noting certain values of certain content and a specific programme. I believe that the new era of Croatian politics will be marked by competition precisely in good ideas in good programmes. The politics of the new era of Croatia must be a policy of dialogue and cooperation policy. We will compete in different cities where different structures have been given the opportunity to behave in the quality of the results realized and then in other cities or municipalities and even in the counties, we will look for examples of best practice and implement them in our own environments, even if it was not originally our policies and our ideas. I believe in such Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u43080	Honorable parliamentary deputies and parliamentary representatives, good morning. At the beginning of today's session, I would like to congratulate all the new mayors, mayors, especially our colleagues and colleagues. I've been prepared by my colleagues here are some figures, so let me just say that we have 2 new mayors, 16 mayors, 7 mayors and 1 deputy mayors and 2 deputy mayors + another 7 of our colleagues and colleagues who have frozen their mandates, but have gone back to election races and 6 of them have been re-elected mayors and 1 is the new mayor. So to all of them, I think that on behalf of all MPs and MPs I can congratulate and wish them a lot of success in future work. Today we will begin with the presentation of the position of clubs and independent representatives. We'll see how many of us will be, mostly at 10:30, we'll continue to discuss the confidence of Minister Beros, so if we don't discuss it by 10:30, we'll take a break, so you can plan the time. Tomorrow we will vote at 12 o'clock, and I am also announcing a session of the HS presidency for the start of next week to agree on new rules since they have given in a little measure, so that we can increase the number of MPs and MPs sitting here at the plenary session. Then we'll probably do it on Tuesday next week. We will now start as every time at the beginning of the plenary session, the first is the respected colleague of Hrvoje Zekanovic, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u43081	Dear President HS, dear colleagues and colleagues, here I also join the congratulations of all who have achieved success in the local elections, all colleagues and colleagues who have won either council mandates or become mayors and mayors regardless of the political option. So Croatia is a country of absurdity, I've said it many times, and now I'm going to prove once again, on one example, that the country is absurd. So, recently, the government made a decision to share a covid supplement to pensioners who have small pensions, those who have up to 2,000 kuna should have received about 900 kuna, those up to 3,000 kuna 600 if I'm not mistaken and those up to 4,000 kuna 400 kuna covid supplement. However, some pensioners did not receive the covid supplement. Retired people are people who are older and are largely not informational written and pass weeks and weeks and they ask questions, look, wait and check their accounts and there is no covid supplement. What's this about? It's just that some of these pensioners are once in their youth, and I'm saying one example of me personally known, one person close to me as a 17-year-old girl has gone away for four years. in Germany, emigration to work, temporary work abroad and there has also earned a German pension of EUR 64. Afterwards, she returned to Croatia and then made another 1,700 kuna pension in her lifetime. Because he has 64 EUR German pensions, and no one has informed him that he has to make any statements, not she but thousands of others have not earned the right to a covid supplement. So it's not about one case, I'm talking about one particular case known to me, but it's about thousands of people who are waiting today and checking their current accounts, asking questions, and the covid supplements don't have because they have part of a pension coming from another country. First of all, it is incomprehensible to me that not all pensioners, in a timely way, have given instructions by means of the media, what they should do if they intend to do so, but by means of a wise silence. And it will be the end that many or most of these endangered who need this covid supplement will be left without a covid supplement because they simply don't know what to do. And imagine now the procedure, someone lives in some rural space, in the village, he must now go to HZZO, fill out some forms, make statements, release documents to exercise his right. On the third hand, I will talk here about the morality of this decision because the one who made the decision he actually made in relation to what the Croatian citizens are receiving. If someone's industrious and has their own garden, there might be a few chickens, maybe a little and a little, so there's an extra income, why is this country punishing him in a way that doesn't give him a covid addendum? Why is it that someone who was punished at one point because he couldn't get a job in that system, so he went abroad for a couple of years, you won't get a covid supplement because you didn't deserve it? Well, he just deserved it. So, I think it's a unfair division, one, one poor implementation of a government decision, and I'm calling from this place, and this also applies to Minister Berosa, who we'll talk about a little later, and we'll repeat to him that this problem is urgently solved. So, all those who have a foreign pension should immediately be paid a covid supplement because someone for a few dozen foreign pensions is damaged, not by his guilt, but by the sloppyness and neglect of whoever prescribed this decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u43171	The second debate of the SDP representative club, respected counterpart Martina Vlasic Iljkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u43172	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, respected colleagues, on the Committee on Health and Social Policy last week, we discussed the system of social care and the need to adopt urgent activities that will lead to improvement of the system especially in the part of child care. We were particularly interested in the fact that a proposal for the Social Care Act had not yet been adopted despite the announcements that it was to be in government at the end of April. It is also possible, and the impression is that the ministry is still reluctant to take important steps to address the problem of the welfare system. In my discussion again, I proposed that certain rights of the welfare system be seriously considered, such as personal disability, aid and care allowance and employment compensation, and their administration be given to the authority of the second portfolio. I responsibly argue that these rights for adults have nothing to do with detecting risky situations in families that are to be carried out by social workers and that these issues of decision-making can be done by administrative lawyers and lawyers from other resolutions unrelated to supporting activities. In the long-term plans as we have had the opportunity to hear is a reduction of public authority but as so far other resolutions are not prepared for the reception of those users. What the government has done is to consider all possibilities of the organisation is not clear since they have no direction in which the law could be covered. The recognition of the right is based on the functionality and physical damage of the organism, and it is very clear that in the Social Care Act, these rights do not have what remains. Dissolvement of the social care centre would immediately ensure that a social worker works on far more important jobs, working with risk families, childcare, and strengthening foster care as a form of care for children who best compensates for the child’s care in the family. These days, it is consulted on the form of an ex ante evaluation for the draft draft Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Household Act. The number of foster families for children in 2015 was 1467, and in 2019 it was 1318. So the difference is 149 families. If a family foster care of a minimum of three children comes to a figure of at least 447 reduced accommodation capacity for the most vulnerable in our society, these are children. Of the total number of foster parents, 768 are traditional foster parents and 491 relatives. After caring for a minor in the family, relatives will no longer care for foster care, and 35 families are a specialised foster parent. The aim of the amendment and addition of the Household Act is to increase the number of foster parents by 10% and increase the quality of care in foster families. The total number of children in foster families was 2241, and in 2015 it was 2218, which is also an indicator and stagnation and reduction of the number of foster families. In February 2020, the number of children at the accommodation was 4439 while the number of children was 2795 in 2015. Therefore, the need to accommodate children is growing, and the capacities of the community service centres are filled with former homes that are not the most suitable accommodation for children and require agreement for over-numbered accommodation by the ministry. It is therefore necessary to make great efforts to promote foster care in order for people to decide on foster care. Since the centralised national promotions so far have not produced fruit for all these years, more investment and promotion of foster care should be considered at local level with the aim of even distribution. Here I mean investing in current foster parents who would share their knowledge and experience with new foster parents, but also an active role of cities and municipalities in collaboration with welfare centres. What the ministry needs to ensure is accommodation for all children, very often those are accommodations where brothers and sisters are separated, which is further traumatized for all children. I call upon the members of the government, all ministers to take their time, to take their time, to get acquainted with the welfare system. about childcare before they decide to invest [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] in other unscheduled projects. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u43266	Thank you. And we're going to the fifth debate, the HDZ Representatives Club, dear colleague Marko Pavić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u43267	Thank you very much, esteemed President of the Assembly, colleagues and colleagues. I wanted to use today's free speech to highlight exactly the topic of employment, which is also the key topic of the current COSAC conference or the conference of the Committee on European Affairs of all EU Member States. Yesterday and today is the 65th meeting of the European Affairs Committee, where the main topic is employment and the National Recovery Plans. What we could get through this conference was the experience of other Member States and see how other Member States and Croatia fought this covid crisis, especially in matters of employment and care for our citizens who are socially excluded. And here we can tell them that by comparing ourselves with the others that we really did a great job. 400,000 unemployed predicted opposition in this crisis, and just the opposite happened. It happened that we invested 10.5 billion kuna in covid support, saved 700,000 jobs and forgiven also over 4 billion kuna contributions to employers for these same workers. The strategy stemmed from the Porto Social Summit where the prime ministers of the Member States once again highlighted their support for the European Pillar of Social Rights, to visit this is the 20 principles that the EU has already drawn in Gothenburg that it wants to deal with exactly employment is one of the key principles. In addition, as a result of the Porto Social Summit, which was attended by both Prime Minister Plenkovic and Minister Aladrovic was an emphasis in their statement and conclusion on two components, employment and skills development. Croatia has just fought the government's efforts for EUR 24.5 billion in the next period, 6.3 billion, 12% in the National Recovery Programme, a large part of which goes to employment as well. We are one of the few countries, and now I can confirm after the COSAC Conference which 1/3 of the National Recovery and Resistance Programme invests directly in supporting our entrepreneurs. Also in this crisis, and we will believe this more in detail and later in the debate on the confidence of Minister Beros, the power to sum up and the successes we had in the health system, but also in the economic system that we didn't have unemployed, that we didn't have people on the road, that we didn't have curfews, so in the National Recovery and Resistance Programme 2.5 million kunas for health care. How big is this, we can only see that so far from the EU funds billions and a half of kuna has been for health care. So, in the National Recovery Programme alone, we have a billion kunas extra in relation to this period + programming and EU funds that will be available in parallel. When we sum up the success of EU funds, 117% agreed, 54% paid. So, we see that we are going towards not losing a single euro cent, we are going to split up, we are going to have a successful tourist season, and this government has shown that it knows and can not only use the funds, that it knows and invest, that it can defend the economy, that it knows how to defend the health system, and also when we compare here after yesterday and today's conferences, I think we have been comparing ourselves with other EU Member States to do an extraordinary job. We can commend ourselves with many programmes, investments, investments in social exclusion, in youth employment, in women's employment, in the "Learn" programme, as well as that our representatives at the European Commission at the Porto Summit have presented and contributed to the guarantee for children. Therefore, we are successfully fighting the crisis, and we show that we know, and we can continue to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u43268	Thank you. Since no one has signed up for free speech as announced at the outset, we will continue at 10 o’clock and 30 minutes of debate on the confidence of Minister Beros. I'll see you in half an hour. It's 9:00 P.M. Dear MPs, we are continuing our work. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 10:35 A.M.]] I thank the media representatives. As we have announced: - Proposal to raise the question of trust, Prof. Dr.sc. William Beros, Minister of Health in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, are proposing 41 MPs and representatives in HS on the basis of Article. 116. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the The Rules of Procedure of HS. I welcome the Prime Minister, welcome the Vice-Presidents and Minister Beros. The government delivered a statement. And now I would like to call on the proposal's representative to give an additional explanation of this proposal, a respected colleague named Peja Grbin will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u49897	Thank you. Mr. President-in-Office of the HS, Mr. Prime Minister, the Honorable Deputy Prime Minister, the Honorable Mr. Minister, the Honorable colleagues and colleagues. The healthcare system is one of the most important for the functioning of each country, the health system is one of the most sensitive systems in the functioning of each country, and especially those countries like the Republic of Croatia that each day has an ever older and older population that requires better, but also more expensive health care. When we add the pandemic to this, it is particularly clear how public it is, and I particularly stress it, the public health system is important and how much attention it is necessary to ensure that such a system works adequately. Unfortunately, in the Republic of Croatia, it didn't happen. In the last few years, in the Republic of Croatia, we have witnessed the deterioration of the quality and functioning of the health system, which has escalated during this pandemic and during the term of office of Mr Beros. Instead of the quality management of the health system, we got a health system that is shrinking in debt, and the debts in this health system are constantly increasing, despite the fact that health care separations are growing and that the state is constantly intermittently pumping money into the health system trying to settle debts, but these debts are only being recovered temporarily because real work and reforms to improve the health system do not exist. A particular problem is, of course, debts to large-scale drugs. Why is that a special problem? Because of these debts, supplies to Croatian hospitals and patients in these hospitals were suspended without adequate health care. In the middle of the pandemic, the most vulnerable group of societies was left without the protection the state had to provide. Mr. Minister, it is not only your responsibility, it is a fact, it is also your predecessors from the HDZ and Mr. Nakic and Mr. Kujundzic, the responsibility of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia who lets you continue to run the health system despite your incompetence. It is also Minister Marić's responsibility because, as Minister of Finance, he obviously doesn't care enough about how much money he has and where the money leaks, but ministers are primarily your responsibility because you are the Minister of Health, and this problem is a problem in the health system. It's just that what I've been talking about in health care would be enough to ask for your recall, the fact that the hospitals have run out of drugs is enough that in a well-organized state the health minister himself after he repairs the situation and says I'm unable to act on my duty because I just don't know it. However, that was not enough for you, you still work still, yet you enjoy the support of the prime minister. But like I said, that's unfortunately not all. The funds in the health system are spent without clear criteria, rules and supervision, which in the last few weeks bear witness to the numerous affairs most famous of which are those IT florists and the “Pace” affair that has been overpaid, and you have assigned your friends to make it. To make things worse, the ‘Vacinate’ system does not work, the entire system of vaccination in the Republic of Croatia does not function as it should. Yeah, the last few days we've had a better situation than the beginning of this year, and that's what we have to admit. Yes, the responsibility for vaccination problems is not only in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, it is largely on the European Commission which has made a huge error in the assessment, but also on the government, the responsibility is in the government because it did not order enough amounts of vaccine on the one hand, and on the other hand the responsibility is on the government because when the vaccine came, it did not adequately organise its distribution. We have been talking since half last year about the vaccine coming and that vaccination is the only way out of the pandemic, and then when that vaccine finally came, the government of the Republic of Croatia as if it remained surprised, as if it were not expected, it was completely unprepared. And what ministry was responsible for that? Of course, the Department of Health is headed by you, Mr. Berosch. Data were lost on the reported on the system line, vaccination was not recorded correctly, vaccine was given via the link, vaccine was vaccinated across the line. Maybe I'm a little wrong here. Maybe it wasn't vaccinated over the line, because in order to be vaccinated over the line, there had to be a line. And there was no order in the vaccination system, Mr. Berosch. Each of the items that I have mentioned so far, health debts, discontinuation of drug deliveries to hospitals, corrupt public procurement, failure to function in the vaccination system would be enough for each of us to leave in one normal country, one regulated country, the health minister. It's not in Croatia. And why is that? Because Croatia is becoming an abnormal country thanks to you, Minister Beros, but even more so thanks to you, thanks to Mr Plenkovic. A country where the behavior that goes beyond the framework becomes a norm becomes acceptable and becomes appreciated. And Croatia has never been and will never be. Mr. Beroshu, you are unable to solve any of the major systemic problems in Croatian health care. Someone will say maybe a man solves little problems, but not even a small problem is able to solve. Only one cartoon, though Prime Minister Plenkovic, Minister Beros, State Secretary and Assistants from his ministry have repeatedly pledged to the citizens of Umag, Buja and Novigrad to solve their problem with access to health care and to allow them to seek health care in a hospital in Izola just a few miles away, only a few minutes from where these people live, nor were Minister Beros and Prime Minister Plenkovic able to resolve it. Nor is it that people in emergency situations can go to a hospital that's 10 minutes away, not to hospitals in Pula and Rijeka that are over an hour away. Not even that, and you promised I don't know how many times. So when something that's such a little thing, of course not to the citizens of that area, it's a big problem for them, but compared to the debt in health and compared to the problem of vaccination, it's really a small thing. When you're not even able to solve such a thing, then you have to ask yourself what it is, and there's little to it. But let me be more specific about some of the things I've been talking about. The first biggest and most problematic ones are health debts. Health debts, especially debt to wholesalers, have existed for a long time, and it has been growing for all HDZ governments. Just a little bit about numbers. From 2011 to 2015, during the SDP government, debts fell from more than 5 billion to less than 2 billion kuna, in 4 years, during the economic crisis, debts were reduced. Trend showed in 2015 that the reforms continued, that they continued to be active and quality management of the health system so that by 2017 the debt should be reduced to zero, i.e. that the debts and obligations in healthcare should be paid in the prescribed time limits by 2017 at the latest. Yes, we have legally prescribed deadlines in which the obligations of the Republic of Croatia must be paid. We have the Ministry of Finance to control and sanction those who don't. Yes, Minister Maric, we have a law that prescribes it. However, in 2016, HDZ comes to the health authority from Nakic via Kujundzic so far, Berosa is not managed by the health system. It's allowed for the verse to work and the debt to grow. In 2016, immediately after the takeover of power, one of the first moves of HDZ ministers was to suspend the rehabilitation of health institutions owned by other founders. And these institutions were unsanitary returned to the counties, cities and other founders. What happened? Well, debts began to rise immediately, debts generated. And what's the state's answer to that? A helicopter pump of money without control where the money goes, without any discussion of the limits. Does the limitations and the way we currently finance healthcare work well? The answer is no, because if this debt worked well, it wouldn't be. Health leaves are dramatically increased, if you look at the financial plans of HZZO and compare 2015 with 2020 you will see that it is 5 billion kuna more. Exactly as much as the debt in health in those five years has grown. But, of course, that's not all because at the same time several times, at the end of last year, and then now, a few weeks ago, the helicopter's money was pumped into the system, and I repeat, no control or control of how that money was spent afterwards. So the system doesn't work. And why isn't the system working? Because the head of the hospital, especially those who are in, who are the founders of the Republic of Croatia and who are directly under the supervision of the health minister, is being brought to the lead by people from political, not professional trust and integrity. Let me read a very interesting phone conversation recorded in Mr. Beros' company. That conversation goes like this, Mr. Berosh, look, I want to tell you what I told you, which is that the top of the party including Andreja sent you a clear message, Diana, my undeader than that, I am from these frames I cannot leave. Mrs. Zadravec, that's not true you can't speak the top of the party and Andrej in one sentence, which the minister answers, Diana I can and only so, it's my only option now. Mrs. Zadravec, you're saying that you talked to Andrew and that Andrei chose Zovak, that's what you're telling me. Minister Berosch, to tell you that, the party's top has chosen its way. And when the party's top chooses whether we should be surprised that this path ends with doctors leaving at the tumor clinic, and patients can't come in line to get care for their illness, tumor clinics, then you realize what kind of patients oncology patients are doing, people who need health care in a way, to people whose HDZ government has abolished the "72 hours" programme that was supposed to guarantee early cancer detection, and that program has not compensated anything. Hospitals need quality management that is not available due to HDZ party staffing, hospitals need more quality funding which is not supported by HDZ care, hospitals should be helped to do their job, they need to be reorganised, and there is no simple reason why HDZ in all the systems that the state manages is called the "health system" or "judicial system" corresponds to the status quo and disorder. And why is that? Because in the status quo and mess, the easiest swim is to provide the job for himself and his loved ones. Which is the next page in Mr. Berosh's recall story. One of the reasons why the money in the healthcare system is missing is for sure corrupt clienttelistic public procurement. Public procurement, where either people are profiting from close to Minister Beros and HDZ, either directly or directly, and that is to say, former HDZ ministers who were to receive certain, very luxuriant and lucrative jobs. The creation of the “VpiSe” platform is overpaid and does not work. The work of making IT systems hospitals weighing 1.6 million kunas has been allocated to a company that has so far been involved in the production of flower arrangements. Member States shall ensure that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, This company had a income of 1,000 kuna and no employee in 2021 was to receive a job of 1.6 million kuna, 1,600 times higher. I think it's the successes and numbers and margins that Elon Musk would impress. Of course there's more. I already mentioned, I assigned jobs to former HDZ ministers. And be careful now, interestingly, every time it is revealed that such public procurement from the ministry reacts and says "so we annulled it, we just haven't been able to inform you". Look at the wonders, and what if the papers hadn't written about it, public procurement would still go on and people who didn't deserve it would get jobs and millions. Then we have a situation with the site of Coronavirus.hr and numerous, many other affairs that show that money from the ministry leaks everywhere just not where it should be, and should be in the health care of Croatian citizens and citizens who, as I said at the very beginning, need more and more because the elderly population is unfortunately also the population that needs greater health care. I have already mentioned the case of "VelapiSe" and I said it is not the only responsibility of the Republic of Croatia, it is also the responsibility of the European Commission. But what happened in the Republic of Croatia is the responsibility of this government. Data from the “VipsSe” system were lost, people applied, did not come to order, people who were vaccinated through the “VipsSe” system would not be recorded, people who were vaccinated through general medicine were not registered, they were called on one another, they were called on the other, there was total chaos. At the same time, Croatia's helmet began the EU by the number of those who were split. Unfortunately, by the number of people who have died from the crown we are not at the beginning, we are in the lead, among the 15 countries with the world's greatest mortality, and this is due to inadequate reaction, inadequate measures, linking measures with the political needs of HDZ and simply poor management with vaccination. Dear colleagues and colleagues, what you've been doing, but more than that, what you haven't been able to do directly affected people's lives and health, that the consequences of coronaryvirus in the Republic of Croatia are worse. And I'll end up with one case we didn't mention in the recall proposal, and we didn't mention it because it happened in the meantime since we started this procedure, which is the Zadravec case and not that phone conversation. That phone conversation was just an introduction. It's a case of Mrs. Devereaux. Zadravec and everything that's going on at the tumour clinic. Like I said, doctors are leaving, and patients can't get health care, it's a taste. But what's behind it is inside the HDZ hospital management and management account, the KBC, it's a taste. The two currents in HDZ are arguing over who will take over the hospital, and the consequences are suffered by patients. I'm not going to be a lawyer here, nor am I going to be a lawyer. Zadravec, no former director, no one, but I'll say one thing. The inspection only started at the hospital when the media started writing about it every day, only a reaction from the opposition, led the minister to wonder what was going on at the hospital, even though the phone conversations that someone in the minister's society recorded in time show that the minister knew everything that was going on at that hospital all the time, but he didn't react because he simply didn't know what HDZ electricity would prevail, and God forbid he was on the wrong side. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the health system needs to be managed because it is a system that needs to be helped by one of the most vulnerable groups in our society, it is a system that needs to help the sick, and instead of managing the health system we have huge debts, we have the suspension of the delivery of medicines, we have the failure of the vaccination system we have public procurement that is negotiated by clientelistic and corruptive methods, we have internal staffing in hospitals, we have everything other than what we should have, and we should have quality health care. And because we don't have it today, Minister Berosh, and you can't say it differently, he has to leave. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u49898	Now we'll move on to replicas, stay a colleague of the coat of arms has a lot of replicas as far as I can see 16. First up, fellow Cellic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u49899	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. coat of arms. Your political exposés are cheaply produced by a monodrama that is filled with flat-rate accusations and untrues. While Croatia struggled with the virus, you cheered for the crown as an opposition all the time, mined the operation of the headquarters. Today's debate is the opportunity to say everything this government of the Republic of Croatia has done on a plan to fight the coronary virus in a time most demanding since the time of the Homeland War. Salaries for 215,000 workers in the City of Zagreb, equivalent to 2 billion kunas, are only one example. The matter of medical equipment, tests, vaccines you've obstructed everything. 47,000 daily vaccinated at the end of April, epidemiological figures indicate that the third wave is at the end of power, and the results in the local election speak [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] How's the SDP on the respirator? [[Intruder President: Comrade Cellic, thank you.]] Do you know how much mortality is on the respirator? Very high.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u49900	A fellow cell for ten seconds, I'm asking you to stick to the time. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u49901	Dear Mr. Cellic, we don't discuss the results of the local elections, we don't talk. Maybe we should talk about it because those for my party aren't as bad as those results were defeating your party in a number of environments. But well, that's not the subject of today's debate. The topic of today's debate is the functioning of the health system. And tell me, is politicizing when I say that health debt in five years of HDZ ministers has increased more than three times, is it politicizing or is it a fact? The fact is, the figures show it, not my numbers, the figures of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Health, your ministers. And these figures led to the fact that in the middle of the pandemics, the drug supply was denied, oncology patients had to look for drugs across the border. We've heard from people whose family is suffering from leukemia. who had to buy medicines in Slovenia [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Is that politicizing? [[Break president: colleague Grbin, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u49902	Thank you, fellow coat of arms. I'm asking you colleagues and colleagues to stick to the weather. One minute is for the replica, and I'm asking you all to hold on to it. Comrade Katičić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u49903	President-in-Office of the Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister, the Honorable Minister, colleagues and colleagues. By carefully reading this populist pamphlet for the recall of the Minister of Health, you present a number of proven false accusations on the account of a system operating at the time of the greatest crisis since the Homeland War, and you drop many facts that this system provided for example a sufficient number of respirators, for the care of all coviding infected patients, as well as taking care of all other patients and citizens who need medical care. Of course, you do not mention that you also care about repairing the earthquake of damaged buildings of health institutions in the City of Zagreb. I therefore believe that it is a minimum of your responsibility for citizens to contribute at least some unequivocal evidence of this because they ate at the expense of this Ministry of Health and the Government... do not contribute to the progress of the health system.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u49904	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u49905	Dear colleague, we'll agree on something, this is a really big crisis, it's probably the greatest peacetime health threat any of us has witnessed, anyone alive today except maybe Jože Manolic. However, this is the problem in the midst of such a health threat, and this ministry has taken advantage of the opportunity to assign certain jobs to its counterparts, such as the work on the "Break Out" system, which has been overpaid several times, for some a20 times, as is the case with IT florists. This evidence has been provided, and this evidence is derived from the Court Register and from the FINA data. Member States shall ensure that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, 1,000 kunas no one At the time of the crown crisis, they get a 1.6 million-dollar job on jobs they have nothing to do with.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u49906	Thank you. Let's move on, 3rd Replic colleague Djakic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u49907	Thank you very much, Mr. President HS. Prime Minister, ministers. A fellow coat of arms with your pamphlets and delusions was no place in this High House at times of severe pandemic that hit Croatia. I'm just one of those people who's been using a health care system in the new moments, 24 days I haven't noticed that the drugs are missing, I haven't noticed that the staff is missing, I haven't noticed any chaos in the health system as you call it. I was taken care of like hundreds and thousands of others who survived this pandemic, I was taken care of at the best of times, and I was in the best of hands. Congratulations and the government of the Republic of Croatia headed by Prime Minister Plenkovic on their efforts and efforts, as well as Minister Berosa with all directors and doctors and staff who were alertly concerned day and night over all those who have experienced sickness. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u49908	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u49909	Dear fellow Djakic, not all patients are MPs and therefore also HDZ parliamentary representatives, and not everyone could enjoy the same conditions and the same treatment you received. Others had to, as I had already mentioned, seek medicines and health care across the border of the Republic of Croatia. A family from Međimurje contacted us where one of the members of that family was suffering from leukemia that could not get the cure. We've been contacted by cancer patients who couldn't get the cure. You know what the answer was from the Department of Health back then, so it's no problem if the chemo's late. Why don't you tell that to the person whose chemo is late? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u49910	We have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Comrade Cellic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u49911	Thank you, Mr. President. Article 238, my colleague Grbin, this is a disgrace to you, this is an insult to all healthcare professionals because you know well that no one was missing a respirator at this point in time from the past year, compare the situation, see what the situation was like in Portugal, Ireland and in this way to say that he was a privileged colleague, Djakic, it may be a shame for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u49912	Yes, this is a very sensitive area now and you are in a certain way and replicated, but the fact is also that I think that you have made one heavy accusation that part of the health system according to party criteria or according to some of your own preferences has treated patients and patients. You should have some evidence for that. So I'm asking you not to make any warnings, but I'm asking you that we still choose words, these were really hard words. Comrade Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u49913	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament was injured in Article 238, we certainly did not deserve this demeaning and insulting of the MPs. First of all, I signed up for a hospital search at Fran Mihaljevic without anyone's intervention. There was a driver lying in his room, a retired driver from Vrbovac, unfortunately he died. The same treatment we both had. Shame on you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u49914	Yes, I have already said in a commentary of the replica of my colleague, or of the injury of my colleague Cellic's Rules of Procedure, I call on everyone to choose words and to have evidence for what we charge, and not just to make such a statement because it can be really embarrassing. Let's move on, colleague Hajdash Doncic, come on in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u49915	Thank you very much. So, a clear comment within.../incomprehensible/... replication, but irrelevant, but, fellow Grbin, do you notice that HDZ is actually now in the orchestra, having three basic words that repeat, words that keep repeating. So it's a threat to the greatest crisis since the Homeland War because they don't want to deal with a fundamental problem. And the main problem is what's said. So, as indicated, 230 million kuna monthly debt generation in the health system. Why? Because of the sentence, we can easily raise the wages, raise everything, limit health institutions remain the same or change slightly. And then we're surprised. So what's crucial to vaccination and systems, to know how to operate the system, but maybe even our common mistake in having addressed the address wrong, is not Willy's fault, it's this person sitting between Willie and Ivica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u49916	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u49917	Dear colleague, you missed one word they repeated three times, which is the word pamphlet. You missed it, but we noticed. It's not a pamphlet, nor is this politicizing. This is a serious debate about a serious problem, and the serious problem is that the health system of the Republic of Croatia is not functioning because it is not managed well. And that failure led to the fact that, now I'm going to use the terms that have been made, at the time of the greatest health crisis, there's been an additional threat by the hospital's lack of medication. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u49918	Comrades Nikolina Baradić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u49919	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. A respected colleague, in his replica, would have touched on the other points of your proposal mentioning debts to employees based on overtime and increasing the base for calculating salaries. Here, I have in front of me a payroll of my colleague who works 3 hours, 3 shifts at Covid's department, has the highest possible coefficient, so 1.28 and her salary is on average 8,500 kuna plus a Covid supplement that is from 400 to 500 kuna. So 9,000 kuna is the amount of the nurse's salary that works 24 with infected patients. If we compare this to the period when your SDP government cut salaries to healthcare professionals, we can only conclude that you have no arguments and that you are engaged in politics which the citizens recognized in the local elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u49920	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u49921	Thank you, fellow Members, for reminding me of something I missed out on in my debate and thank you for saying. So you mentioned that the salary of someone who works at Covid for 24 hours means in particularly difficult working conditions with 8500 kuna increased by 400 kuna. It's this fast math somewhere around 4.5%. So someone who is jeopardizing their lives and their health to help others, who are working under difficult working conditions, has been increased by 4.5%. Is that appropriate to you?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u49922	Comrade Marko Pavić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u49923	Thank you very much, Mr. President-in-Office. Dear comrade Grbin, 400,000, 400 thousand unemployed, you've predicted in this crisis. You say he needs arguments, he needs numbers, so let's go with arguments and numbers. Up until now, almost 40%, we open the tourist season, there were no curfews, there were equipment, the government secured equipment, I remember when Prime Minister Plenkovic called the Chinese prime minister then, then Minister Beros and I secured 615 million kuna for medical equipment. No one's lost their respirator. 10.5 billion kuna invested in protecting 680,000 jobs, currently unemployed 137,000. These are all figures that point to the government's work, indicate the work of ministers, prime ministers and others. And if you were in power, you would have realized this prognosis you yourself made, which is 400,000 unemployed.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u49924	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u49925	And what should the government do, let us all die, let us all end up at the Employment Service? Well, that's government business, my God! The government's job is to do something from time to time. We're talking about where the government hasn't done its job, God forbid it's as small as it gets, but it's not. What you're talking about is the part where you do something and you do it, let's do something and it's done. But there was also a mass of problems with the assignment of jobs to very suspicious individuals and companies, all prevented by a timely reaction to opposition, the media and the general public. If it hadn't been for that, ask God how many more cases like the IT flower girl would have been.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u49926	Now it's Romana Nikolic's turn, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u49927	I would like to thank the President of the Assembly. Dear counterpart Grbin, in a report by the attorney general, is the largest number of complaints, as many as 328 are from the field of health, mostly from citizens who have failed to reach out to their doctors and have received the necessary medications or have been delayed, which has been further increased in the waiting list and thus too long. What did the government do about it? Nothing. She took note of this report rather than taking into account the problem and began to solve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u49928	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u49929	But you guys are wrong. The government did something. In her response to our motion to recall Minister Beros said it was irrelevant. She said that the complaints to the attorney general were irrelevant, so something was done, so don't do it like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u49930	Comrade Peovic, please, now it's your turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u49931	Good afternoon. I would like to know what you think of the proposal from the Workers' Front which we have sent to the Assembly to ensure that healthcare professionals and healthcare professionals involved in the fight against Covid-19 are provided with a well-fused work experience. In fact, we believe that the situation is very similar to that in the Homeland War when the benefited internship was secured. We also believe that the supplement, a covid add-on of 10% that comes 9 months after the start of the pandemic, was quite demeaning, therefore also a demeaning gesture towards healthcare professionals as you yourself mentioned, who received only a few hundred kunas more on the salary. So couldn't it have changed that somehow? For example, in France, an average of EUR 183 was obtained per worker, in Estonia double salaries to all healthcare professionals, in Slovenia 200% of salary allowance, in Scotland 500 euros per salary, and our healthcare professionals are practically fighting under normal conditions.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u49932	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u49933	I can only answer you that we are neither in Estonia nor in Slovenia, nor in Scotland, nor in France, but in Croatia, which is headed by Plenkovic and at the head of Beros Health. These suggestions you spoke of are certainly for discussion. The part about the salary allowance I've already touched. Yeah, I find that part inadequate, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u49934	Now it's time for my colleague Baricevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u49935	The microphone hasn't been turned off. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, the Prime Minister with the ministers. Comrade Grbin, muddle the health system that has proved crucial in this epidemic for the successful protection of citizens. So, with increasing results in cleaving the population and resolving current health problems, a plan has been developed for modernising the health system, in particular through accelerated digitalisation, the application of new methods and technologies in human resources health and development, without talking about planned reforms and investments in health care, which will allow for even better and more effective health care at all levels of health care, that we do not say that in these past 15 months, the Croatian government has resisted all the challenges of the crisis, but successfully, truly successfully, successfully. I beg you, tell the Croatian citizens today [[Intruder: Thank you]] how much this government has given to preserve [[Intruder: Thank you]] jobs. [[/Intruder: My colleagues Baričević, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u49936	Please, let's just stick to the weather. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u49937	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, I don't muddle the health system. I am extremely proud of the fact that Croatia still has public health and public health system despite HDZ. I don't muddle health care professionals as you call them or health workers, I'm extremely proud of them because I know what conditions they've been working on during this pandemic. The conditions in which they worked are terrible and can and must be proud of them, and we must give them the words of thanks. The ones I have a problem with are those who are at the top of the health system pyramid, the prime minister, and especially the health minister because they, who are in their jurisdiction, are not managing well. You mentioned digitization and thank you for that, so I'm going to mention once again to the IT flower girl who got a job without any reference from millions and 600 thousand kunas. It's that digitalization that's being conducted.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u49938	Find a colleague, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u49939	Dear counterpart Grbin, the question is just, we remember that in the first month of last year, former Minister Kujundzic was replaced in a way that it was explained that he was not, that he was not focused enough on the pandemic that was coming back then, because as private problems were said at the time, we now see that the new minister has many, many problems again, many of the affairs have been raised there, so here is your opinion whether he is already under-focused?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u49940	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u49941	I thank my colleague. Yeah, you're right. Kujundzic was removed because of his numerous affairs that he had to deal with, he was unable to deal with the health minister's business. That's a fact. However, Kujundzic had these problems from the very beginning of his term of office because he worked at the hospital at the same time, he was a professor at the university, his picture was on the pages of his family's private clinic, so the man was doing everything but the job he was supposed to do, which is the minister's job. The situation is similar today, and with Mr. Berosch, Mr. Beros has to leave because the minister's job does not know, cannot or will not work properly. Whether it will be tomorrow at the vote or in a week, two, three when it is determined that he has more serious jobs and tasks than that health minister, that's the question, but that he will leave, he will leave, that's clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u49942	Comrade Murganic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u49943	Thank you. In your proposal to recall as you have now presented a series of inaccuracies, a series of falses, because in one way, you're so dramaticly polite, even in one situation, and you've changed your voice to be as convincing as possible, but these are all false. You're accusing the Minister of inadequate vaccination, and you know for a fact that the vaccine has plenty and that we have more vaccines than it has citizens' interests and that we should work on it. You are also accusing him of debts he has clearly inherited, not admitting that we have additional costs related to the earthquake and the pandemic. 2.9 billion is a blow to the health system of finance, everything is working, and wages are raised in this year 1,200 kuna on average, our GDP has fallen less than other countries due to adequate measures All of this, like other measures, was done by this man sitting by the edge. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u49944	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u49945	Dear colleagues, they were defending you, too, so you had to leave because you didn't do the job of the minister properly, and so will Willy. But you said that in many things I was false, and then you didn't list any. What's your explanation? Well, it's not Willie's fault. He inherited his health debts. From who? From Kujundzic and Nakic from other HDZs. [[Intruder Murganic: And you.]] No, no, no, 2015 health debt was dramatically reduced If you continued to do your job by 2017 at the latest of the 18th dues in health care, there would be no. [[Intruding Murganic: I credit upli.]] Today they escalated, today they escalated, and we have a situation where hospitals have stopped delivering drugs. That in six months, the state had twice had to intervene in a helicopter so the health system wouldn't collapse. Why? [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Because someone didn't do their job. And who is he? Willy Berosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u49946	Thank you. Let's move on, colleague Juričev Martinchev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u49947	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Among other things, you spoke about health debts, you say that incomes are 21 billion and costs 34 billion, the fact is that the Republic of Croatia is one of the countries where health care is the least isolated in the EU. Do you also mean to say that you are calling the Minister and Government because they have no longer burdened our citizens, why have they not increased their health clearances? I know that between 34 billion and 34 billion, respectively, are possible to optimise and rationalise certain costs, but not in that amount. Are you accusing them of why and suggesting a reduction in the salaries of healthcare professionals or would you prescribe cheaper medicines for cancer patients? That's what you're telling the government, which in this year alone, has provided additional funds and not from the credit funds of 4.7 billion kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u49948	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u49949	Dear colleagues of Juričev Martinchev, I pointed out the fact that you did not listen to me very carefully that the health separations have increased since 2015-2020. The HZZO's financial plan has been increased by five billion kuna. And I asked a perfectly legitimate question, how is it possible to increase the isolation, and at the same time the debt is growing dramatically? How is it possible that in 2015 the debt was reduced, of course, with five billion kunas less than in 2020 and 2021? You haven't explained that to me, nor have you tried to answer that.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u49950	Let's move on, now it's time for fellow Lukacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u49951	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague Grbin, you mentioned on several occasions in your presentation that vaccination was not working at all. You know that the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a vaccination plan in December and that risk groups are listed in that plan, so those who need to be with the healthcare professionals who stayed there, who are listed there to be vaccinated. Do you know that this way, through HZJZ of all county institutions and the Public Health Institute in Zagreb is possible when we only talk about people with disabilities, it is 520,000 people plus personal assistants for whom vaccination is equally possible to protect Those most vulnerable groups of people with disabilities, so you said one lie. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u49952	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u49953	I wasn't a respected colleague, I wasn't talking about that at all, I wasn't talking about the vaccination of people with disabilities, I wasn't. I was talking about non-functioning of the vaccination system, and the vaccination system really didn't work. It didn't work because at one point the amount of vaccine was not ordered, it didn't work because it was not organised in an adequate way to distribute the vaccine that occurred, it didn't work because despite the discussions and appeals sent from this place in January of this year, the state never tried to reach other producers' vaccines and it didn't work because the system through which vaccination was to be organised was assigned to friends to do it, so the system was glazed out, blocked however you wish, and the people who applied to it were not invited. And with all that, there was a high-quality popularization of vaccinations to make People who don't want to be vaccinated [[Thank you very much.]] explain why it is useful for them and for society. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u49954	Thank you very much. Now it's time for your colleague, Dark Taritash, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u49955	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow coat of arms, so this has already been seen. We've had an impediment about government work, about unpreparedness for the fall and the winter wave after we defeated the crown in the summer. We discussed it deep into the night and talked about the health system being unprepared. And now you and I are probably not surprised that the HDZ colleagues say it's yours, that it's a political pamphlet, that it's a hoax and praise to the government, but we also had in the former, former government and now the same scenarios, we pointed to irregularities, we pointed out that the minister is not doing his job well, and then after the debate, after the prime minister praised that minister, the minister has expired for a lifetime, only Prime Minister Plenkovic wants me to say when the minister has expired for a lifetime. And fellow Beroshu, who is the minister, has also expired a lifetime. Everyone in Croatia probably knows that except for him. [[Thank you very much.]] I want to know what you think. When will it be over? [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u49956	You haven't run out of time, but time's up. Here you go, buddy coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u49957	Thank you, Mr. President. Yes, dear colleagues, you've spoken of how many times we've defeated the crown so far. And I really warm, warmly hope that when we finally beat her, and I hope that it will be soon, that it will be the third happiness and that we won't have to once again to fight. Our mission as the opposition's representative is to point to irregularities and offer alternative solutions. Some of us were talking about, let's mention colleague Peović, some like that, which is extremely important, quality management of the health system I was talking about. It's our mission from the opposition. With their assignments, they have much greater responsibility. They have the majority they need, the key to making a decision. The opposition doesn't have the majority because if she did, she'd be the majority. And that's why it's the responsibility of the rulers to point out after all this make the only right decision [[Intruder: Thank you.]] And that's to vote for change. [[Intruder: Thank you very much, colleague Grbin.]] which is necessary for the health system. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u49958	Now it's my fellow Shimičević's turn, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u49959	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague, the opposition has never applauded the authorities for the good they do, so it would be strange for you to do so now, and perhaps we should. While some like you have said that the virus is just a caries, the Croatian government has done everything to protect the people of Croatia, and we also forget that Croatia has been hit by devastating earthquakes that have already complicated the difficult situation. Anything you said could be denied, but we don't have time. One thing you said in your address is that the SDP government has reduced debt to healthcare, and you forget that you have banned employment, that you have banned progress, that you have reduced wages to a Croatian man, and you should say that, and you forget that, Mr. Grbin. And one thing that bothers me is you're talking to the Minister with With Willy, he's not Willy, he's Minister Beros in the government of the Republic of Croatia. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u49960	Dear Representative Peja Grbin, thank you, colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u49961	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Simicevic, unlike most of the opposition, has relatively often supported the government's proposals when he considers them established. When I vote in favour of the proposal sent by either Minister Beros, Maric or someone of no importance, then I support his work in that segment. And I've done it many times. How many times has most supported opposition proposals? Not once. The closest we get to it is when the motion that the opposition is making then you realize as yours as if it were a foot in the ass of Minister Tolusic, Minister Kuštević, or tomorrow it will be Minister Beros. So don't talk like you did. And as for debt cuts during the SDP government from 2011 to 2015, you're really right I didn't mention everything. Debts have been reduced and waiting lists have been reduced. Here, thank you for reminding me and correcting my failure. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u49962	Thank you very much, I'd just like to pray that we don't use expressions like chatter, foot-to- butt and stuff because it doesn't look like this tall home. The next replica is the respected representatives of Maja Grba Bujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u49963	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You who like to conduct your arguments in 20 minutes of your testimony have not said anything argumentarily, but I will still rephrase to you because even at one point you said that nothing was done for the citizens of Istria regarding the transport to Isola. Well, since this is not really related to Minister Berosa who has been dealing with the crisis for a long, long time, so this project is truly commendable, but Izola does not provide all the services that should be provided in order to provide an emergency patient with care but to provide a heart attack, to deal with heart attacks, to provide between 7 and 15 in the morning, and not to provide on weekends, and then to propose in this project to drive further to Ljubljana. We are in Rijeka and Pula earlier than in Ljubljana, which is the argument we need to serve in these discussions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u49964	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u49965	Thank you, dear fellow Members, I will allow myself first to remind the distinguished Vice President that the peer in the ass is something that has marked the history of the Croatian Parliament, so don't run away from it. As for what you say, go to Umag, go to Buje, look people from that area in the eyes, and tell them. That's all I'm going to do, because it's not necessary anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u49966	We've come to an end with replicas, so please take your place so we can continue our work. We will now be contacted by Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, a 10-minute exposure with the possibility of replicating of course. Here you are, Your Honor, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u49967	Good afternoon, all of you. I am pleased to have the opportunity, together with Minister Beros and Vice-Presidents Bozinovic and Maric, to react orally on behalf of the government to this initiative by a group of various opposition deputies because this is where the signatures of both SDP and GLAS are collected and We can! And the MOST and the Homeland Movement, there really are a lot of you. First, we fully reject your initiative and we have elaborated this in writing the government which has responded very precisely and duly to all the allegations in this initiative. What is important to the Croatian public in this context is that in the past year and three, four months we have faced the biggest global crisis in the past 100 years, that this crisis has been caused by the Covid-19 pandemic, that it has affected both health systems and the health of citizens and on the economy and on finances and on social life and on production and on GDP and on jobs, literally every aspect of our lives. In this process in Croatia for a year and a half, we looked at two groups of actors politically. The first group of actors was the majority, the parliamentary majority and the government that fought for Croatian citizens, who fought for health security, who fought against covid, who fought for the preservation of jobs, who fought for financial stability, who fought to ensure in these circumstances the maximum tourist season last year and created preconditions for a new one and which, of course, fought to keep the investment rating and secure money for Croatia's development in the next 10 years. The second group of actors that can practically be counted as signatories to this initiative belongs to those who were engaged for the first few weeks and months in constitutional and legal bases of staff work and all that we had to do to protect the health of citizens. So, first you disputed the legal basis. Then some of you were associated saying that covid is a cavities like Mr. Shimičević said, or that it could possibly be some kind of flu. Then that's where the initiatives spontaneously caused nothing, a picture of the hospitals having enough protective equipment in hospitals, because our healthcare professionals won't have masks, they won't have protection departments. And later, of course, initiatives on the work of headquarters, everything we've already done. And you see this huge difference between us and you can see today and the Croatian people see it, he saw it in the local elections two days ago or 15 days ago. And that's why we got support in 75% of the county, 45% of the cities and 45% of the municipalities, and we got a better score than before 4. Despite all these crises that were on the agenda. I am saying this because despite the cost of 32 billion kuna, we have preserved 700,000 jobs, 700,000 jobs and saved more than 120,000 employers, probably many of these employers today would have been bankrupt, and workers and their families would have been without existence if it hadn't been for the measures of our government. And here, your greatest prophet Hajdas Doncic and his like, except for 68 mandates last year, you spoke of 400,000 unemployed, calling out as the socialist social fracture in Croatian society, and she did not, as a matter of fact, happen. But not thanks to you, but thanks to us, it didn't happen. People are at work, working, businesses have overcome the crisis, and we have created a prerequisite for them to make a return to what adorned our government in 2016 to 2019, which is either a budget surplus or a rapid reduction in public debt or continued GDP growth. You're talking about debts, so I'll just tell you that the mandate of the SDP government, some of you who were ministers back then, was marked with Croatia's debt of incredible 74 billion kuna. He's laughing at Doncic, 74 billion kuna. And it adorns your policy, a phenomenal policy of running public finances that remains surely remembered as a brilliant time to run public finances solving the crisis. As far as vaccination is concerned, so unlike you who have done nothing for the vaccination of Croatian citizens, it may be a good thing that you have been vaccinated yourself, so I consider it a useful contribution. Where are we today, thanks to our government? We have, thanks to our government, in a situation where we have spent a million and 751 thousand doses of vaccines so far, that we have delivered up to a million 272 thousand people with a single dose, it is likely to be a million 300 today, that the number of those that have been split by two doses after today's debate is over half a million, which is because when the global crisis with AstromZenec occurred we have provided other vaccines, you are nothing. And we ordered quite enough, more than 8.5 million doses of vaccines for Croatia this year. I'm sure we'll split up all those who want to vaccinate and we'll do it. And this time I call on everyone who wants to be vaccinated to do it and to do it as soon as possible for the health and health of all Croatian citizens. As for the other topics that we have elaborated in our written response because many of them are the usual gleaning that you do when these topics are on the agenda I will just mention something to you because you mentioned Istria and I will mention one investment, you are from Pula. In Pula, the General Hospital in Pula ends for 750 million, guarantees and that money is provided by our government. In Rijeka, for a billion and 100 million KBC is practically a new whole with several blocks, 2.4 billion kuna at 29 locations of united emergency hospital receptions and 7 daily hospitals, here we were the other day in Sisak. Investments that go after us to make a new national children's hospital, growth pays in health care. When you were in power did not grow anything, you have here health care professionals totaled in our mandate to 24% plus covid supplements. Then there's this crisis of health care and vaccination and everything you think is not worth it. Minister Beroš will be Minister of Government together with the entire team and continue to fight, and my favorite point is 10 to the answer of your initiative where we tell you where you resented his 5.7, and we say that unlike HDZ in the Archaeological Museum, there has been a sudden decline in the number of people present, but not for epidemiological reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u49968	Stop the time. Not what you've done now, you've got another 45 seconds I've seen.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u49969	The Honorable President, the esteemed MPs and MPs. After listening to these words from those who have launched an initiative after my impeachment, I can only ask the question, where is the truth, where has she been hiding and do we live in the same state? The constructive criticisms are welcome, however, criticism based on untrues, the structures are for the greatest condemnation even outside the parliament, but also in the Parliament, especially when criticising the Croatian health system that brought this fight to its back. That's what I consider a shower for all Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u49970	I thank Minister Berosha. I don't know if you've registered, but I've seen that he's a colleague of the Habian, and was there any more replicas? Okay. Let's go now with the replicas first to the presentation of the Prime Minister, please the Prime Minister to take his place. The first replica of my colleague Selak Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u49971	Dear Prime Minister. How much you appreciate ministers' work you best showed by the amount of time you've left him, 45 seconds just to tell us good day. And is it true what I heard, this one that you have a problem with the property card and that charge, is it true, said Diana Zadravec in a conversation with Minister Beroshe in which she was supposed to have a very classy relationship with you and with the minister. To date, the general public remains unknown to what kind of ministerial disputed property and indictments are involved. Only at gossip level have rumours of some controversial medical court skills and alleged applications by students of the Educational Rehabilitation Faculty. The public today is unknown if the minister has reported the threat to the competent institutions? Is there really a Minister of Butter on his head who prevents him from not only independence, justice, objectivity and independence from making decisions but also from reporting threats addressed to him?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u49972	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u49973	Thank you very much, nice representatives of Selak Rasdic. As for the duration of the response, we are limited to ten minutes when such brilliant opposition initiatives are coming in, obviously, by you state. As far as these other topics are concerned, there will be a minister of opportunity today during this debate to respond to all these gossips of culinary chatter, lunches, comments, comments, comments which obviously amuses you because nothing too much about gleaning, gossip from these 60-seconds Croatian public could not hear.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u49974	Here is the violation of the Rules of Procedure of my colleague Selak Rasudić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u49975	Art. 238, you first had ten minutes, out of ten minutes you gave the minister 45 seconds to contact us, only to show that you are showing the Croatian public how capable you are of articulating your defense. Secondly, I have asked you a very specific question on what Mrs. Zadarec has accused the minister of, and the Croatian public has not received an answer, nor have you given it now.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u49976	Thank you. My colleagues, Selak Rasudiæ, this is a violation of the Rules of Procedure on your part, so you have replicated and received a warning and I ask you to avoid such situations. Now you're up to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u49977	My replica is addressed to Minister Berosha.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u49978	You can't replicate Minister Berosch now if you've come forward with the replica of Prime Minister Plenkovic, then you must address him.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u49979	Okay, so does the Prime Minister. So, at the beginning of this year, when he was accompanied by specialists and long tubes of the first dose of the vaccine came to Zagreb, when he was not for the medical staff on the first line of defence against the crown to the public, the news leaked that Mrs. Iskra Primorac, president of the Governing Council of the KBC Zagreb, was a healthy 35-year-old economist along with the equally young and healthy wife of vaccination across each row. [[/The President's incursion: here you go.]] Vaccination is before the German Chancellor who is in the 7th decade of his life. Of course, she took advantage of the position of power because the vaccinations in the facility are at the head of the board of directors. Why did Minister Beroš and you not comply with Article 19? The KBC Statute of Zagreb and requested her recall?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u49980	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u49981	Thank you very much. You are still obviously learning from this Parliament's Rules of Procedure, if you were going to replicate Berosha then wait for those 45 generous seconds I gave him as your colleague, Mrs Selak Rasdic, says, and then ask him, and as far as this whole issue is concerned, he has already made a statement and an indication and Minister Beros and KBC Director Corusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u49982	Comrade Vidovic Kristo, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u49983	Mr Plenkovic, sister of Zagreb HDZ President Davorka Herman is a member of the Management Council of the Medicines Agency, your cousin Ivica Luksic is director of Dubrava Hospital, both cases are textbook examples of nepotism. Are you aware that the nepotism and violation of the law, that these acts damage all Croatian citizens, that you destimulate work and order and encourage general social injustice. If someone gets a position because they have a family relationship and have no professional capacity, they are automatically discriminated against worthy and able citizens who have no family or other ties. Who gave you Mr Plenkovic the right to violate the Croatian Constitution and the EU Treaty that prescribe equality before the law and rule of law as a fundamental social value?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u49984	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u49985	Thank you, beautiful representative Vidović, you say it, you tell me exactly how you would say Boris Dvornik in Čovic and a half, and how exactly are Lukšić and I, by which line, if you watched Covic and a half, you even seem to me to be some of the people who can know that episode, if you tell me exactly how we are, when Boris is telling Spiru Guberini, how exactly are Luksic and I kin, on which line you are Bauk and you are related to me, if you tell me how we are, then Bauk and Danica is related to me. So, before you too glean these gossips because it's obviously one expanded sport of Croatian opposition that has no other but to read lies in some of the media then it carries it here on the air and is thought to be true. Ask around a little better, keep in touch, it's good for you, it's good for the Croatian public. Prof. Luksic is a great doctor and excellent director of Dubrava.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u49986	Thank you. Now it's my colleague's turn, you've asked for, here's the violation of the Rules of Procedure of counterpart Vidović Kristo.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u49987	Infringement of Rules of Procedure Article 124, the Government is obliged and is responsible for the assembly for its work and decisions, if you do not know what kind of family relationship you are in, read the reply of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to this issue to the Croatian media, but much more important than that, you have not spoken any letters about the sister of your president of the Zagreb HDZ. Member of the Management Board of the Medicines Agency. [[So what?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u49988	So is she related to me?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u49989	Wait a minute, please, Prime Minister, colleague Vidovic Kristo, that is clear to you, this is not, because it was not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Wait a minute, please silence, you get a warning because you have broken the Rules of Procedure, and you have not explained why the breach of the Rules of Procedure has already been replicated and that is it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u49990	Article 124, and read Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u49991	You can get another warning if you are unhappy with one. Let's move on, now it's time for my colleague Maric, come on in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u49992	Thank you very much. Dear Prime Minister, I'm here. So we've been fighting the pandemic for almost 16 months now, the minister is in this position as much, but he was the assistant minister of the former, so he's familiar with all the problems our health system faces. [[I know, I know, I hear you.]] As an opposition, we make a very good contribution, we offer solutions, we convene meetings of the Health Committee where, therefore, we contribute to a quality debate and we really want our health care to improve. At a session on April 15th, Minister Beros said that he had given a whole series of reforms to you on the table. Now you tell me if there's a series of reforms and why they're not being implemented, if you're holding it back, if there's been a wait for local elections or if there's no set of reforms at all. Then it's actually Minister Berosh's fault. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u49993	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u49994	Thank you very much, as far as health reform is concerned, we have seen from 19.10.2016 to 1.6.2021 in the Croatian Parliament 84 acts that you adopted from the health domain, 84, that is, the legal framework. As for the reform of the health system of paper that would be called, there is no full health reform, as the minister said. What is there and what we are talking about all the time of the pandemic is how to improve the health system, whether its financial part, any operational part, any legal part, and now that our pandemic is eroding us and when vaccination is better we will have time for serious procedures that will make the health system I'm better than it is. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u49995	Comrade Nemet, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u49996	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, I came from Novigrad, and I spoke about the Isola subject area in this assembly, but so far nothing has been resolved. I asked for a written reply from the Ministry of Health on the subject of a bilateral agreement and a request for signature, and I think I have received an answer from part of the reply, I will read to you, that Bujština is located in the border area of the northwestern part of Istria County, or a smaller part of the border area of the Republic of Croatia, and thus the initiative does not constitute a systematic approach to dealing with patient care. Dear Prime Minister, is Bujština a small part of the Republic of Croatia and does all citizens of the Republic have the right to equal health care? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u49997	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u49998	They have, each part of Croatia is equally important, equally important, equally relevant and should be equally cared for in all aspects of public policies, including health care. I am very well aware of the whole issue concerning the care of emergency patients when it comes to the western part of the Istrian County and the talks with the Slovenian side to resolve the matter in essence of the financing of emergency care in Izola and, and the Minister and I and the talks with the Slovenian side and all services in the Ministry of Health, as well as the support of the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs are engaged and this agreement will be concluded and this issue will be resolved. Of course, I am pleased that Pula will now be able to care for all Istrian County patients and all tourists who will come to it in the way that Istria deserves.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u49999	Now it's time for my colleague Oreshkovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50000	Prime Minister, I congratulate you on your colossal success in the local elections, of course every colossal success...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50001	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50002	...the result of colossal abilities, so I am now asking you to put these colossal abilities into the resolution of healthcare debts and health recovery, the reorganization of the hospital system and the problem of lack of healthcare professionals. I also ask you to tighten up your extensive corruption radars so that the money withdrawn will not and the taxpayers' money would not pour into unnecessary and overpaid internet platforms. And for the end, please answer me with yes or no, whether or not the truth states Mrs. Zadravec published in the media in support of the fact that the political summit, including you and Mr. Jandrokovic, who is currently sitting behind you, took part in the Vinograd hospital and chose the director politically? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50003	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50004	Thank you very much. And you're just like us MPs obviously under the impression of gossip, but what I prefer is that you acknowledge and congratulate the HDZ on a big and convincing victory in the local elections. That's what's the most important message of your 60 seconds and that's very good, we'll be able to appreciate it, and we'll make sure that in the period now since 3.g. that are ahead of us where the government and parliamentary majority will be monitored with the newly elected JLS, or their officials and leaders, do good for Croatia in all aspects including health care, and that means health financing, that means changing the law in the context of hierarchy and centralisation of decision-making that we have seen done in the time of this pandemic. As for reforms, they will continue to benefit all Croatian citizens because the health system is important to us.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50005	Thank you very much. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Rasdic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50006	He's been injured. 238th in the sense of demeaning parliamentary representatives. The Prime Minister doesn't answer any questions at all. We know all the territorial tricks, we know how to use them. If I ask you what happened to Iskra Primorac that you rewarded with a new mandate in Regos instead of launching the recall procedure because he was 35. healthy vaccines before medical staff together with their wife, you need to answer that question, and not make a statement here, you need to answer that question. If a representative has asked you a question, answer her question.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50007	Thank you very much, dear colleague. My colleague Rasdić, a colleague of Rasdic, is being warned, you have injured the Rules of Procedure. Please don't do this. There's a replica as an institute, and this is the abuse of the Rules of Procedure and that's why you get a warning. Now it's time for my colleague, Peovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50008	Good afternoon. Prime Minister, there will be no gossip, there will be no gossip, one specific question. What do you think is the reason that Croatia is in 15th place in the world by the number of deaths since the start of the pandemic if everything is as great as you describe it? Why are we in 15th place in the world by the number of deaths since the start of the pandemic? Why do we have 197 deaths per 100,000 inhabitants? Why are they better than us Kosovo, Albania, Serbia, Spain, for example, which has had huge problems, why if everything is as you say? Why did we go to this pandemic completely against the opinion of experts such as Ivan Djikic, who warned early and early enough on the second wave? I'll explain something about it in my individual discussion, but I'm extremely interested in what you think about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50009	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50010	Thank you, well-respected representative Peovic. As for our strategy and the whole concept of fighting with Covid-19, I think she's quite successful. She managed in a way that we balanced the concept of health care, economics, finance, job preservation, and most importantly, our way of life. The government and I personally regret just over 8,000 of our fellow citizens who have lost the battle with Covid-19. At the same time, the government is grateful to all healthcare professionals of a total of 73,000 people working in the health system. According to our estimates 1/3 has been engaged in the past year and 4 months with the fight against Covid-19 and their contribution is immeasurable. The problem that experts were talking about, there are many other experts, is the question of the comorbidity, the state of the nation, the age of the nation and unfortunately a large number of citizens who died is with covid, not by covid.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50011	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50012	238, demeaning MPs and MPs. You're not answering the question again, nor the previous questions, I don't know what didn't suit you now if it wasn't gossip? So, if we're talking about what the government has done, there have been some concrete remarks and suggestions here as an unfettered working position for these healthcare professionals. You gave them 10% covid supplement, it wasn't worthy of calling some of the measures that would be in
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50013	Thank you very much, fellow Members of Peović, for your abuse of the Rules of Procedure, and I now announce the following, since this is three times, when I see that the injury or request for a valuable Rules of Procedure goes in the direction of the replica, I will give the first warning immediately at the beginning and immediately the other one so that you will be speechless. I'm asking you not to do that. It is clearly defined by the Rules of Procedure as a violation of the Rules of Procedure, which is a replica, and I ask you to stick to it. Here you go, colleague Bauk, you're an experienced representative, you'll know how to find a solution, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50014	For some time now, the prime minister's table has proposed measures for financial stabilisation of the health system, structural reforms and improvements in the management of the system. So it's a diagnosis. Centralisation of health institutions due to easier management is one of the elements that we will take, it's therapy, if I get a green light at government level after local elections, it's probably a contraindication. So, from this, it's visible, that's what Mr. Beros said on the board, and from this it's visible that it looks something like this. Mr. Maric pulls out his hair because he spends a lot of health care, Mr. Beros pulls out his hair because he has a proposal for measures but the prime minister won't let him, and the prime minister is angry with his associates because they don't understand the political moment. So it turns out that Berosh was trying to do something, but the prime minister wouldn't give it to him. Mr. President, will the minister get the green light for his program, Minister, will you resign on your own if you don't get the green light from the prime minister when you can respond? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50015	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50016	Thank you very much, by the logic of Mrs. Kristo, my Mr. Bauk is sure to be with me, right, you are 100% property just like Luksic who is the same with Brač so that Hvar and Marriage are good, most of them all property in this ski line. As regards health reform and these quotes from this committee, which was held by the way after a solution was found in the talks with representatives of wholesale drugs, otherwise the usual moment in the dialogue between the government and the representatives of the wholesaler, numerous talks were held within the Government on health reform and there are 3 fundamental areas to be dealt with. One is the financial reform area that will be seen in part through the budget rebalancing that is on a narrow cabinet this afternoon, through the organisational reform area and, of course, reforming human resources issues, while Beros will remain and reform It'll be fun, cousin. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50017	Thank you. Comrade Pavić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50018	Dear Prime Minister, I will refer to what you wrote in your response to the government regarding the purchase of information solutions. Namely, it is evident that only companies that have already worked on a previous information solution have come to this tender for this vaccination or e-vaccination, which actually means that the tender is set up. I think it's clear to everyone from what you wrote in your answer. I don't understand why it's called an information solution because it's not a solution it's just one module within an existing solution, it's the first thing, and the second module uses already existing services. And what's 4.5 million kuna? And after that, you still write and sign that you actually set up a tender for three companies that did the previous solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50019	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50020	First, Mr. Pavic, the fact that you just said that some kind of contest was meant for someone is not true. That's the only thing you can read, I guess you're a computer expert who reads it between lines that don't write because that's the only way I can understand your expertise because if it were written like that, then probably someone at the Ministry of Health and Government, people who read these documents, including me and the members of the government, would be either weak-sighted or not quite compositing the sentences. So that's number one. Another thing about the government's manifestation would have been better if you had read this part of the response to item 10, it is the most fun thing for you and we can say more precisely in assessing the state of your initiative and the real position of you who are destructive in the time of Covid and us who are fighting for the health of Croatian people.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50021	Comrade Dark Taritash, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50022	Thank you very much, Mr. President-in-Office. Dear Prime Minister, I will return to the topic of vaccination. So let's be fair to the end of the crown is really something that happened to the whole world and governments have decided in different ways to fight the crown and have different results. I am interested in, in general, in the topic of vaccination, in order to vaccinate and to fight successfully with the crown of the nations must be vaccinated. For that we have 3 things, first we have enough vaccines, second we have a simple system in which, which works that people can report vaccines and third thing to do is to do a good promotion of vaccination, to point out the importance of vaccination for a simple reason, which of course we have a lot of those who have dilemmas there. I wonder how you're satisfied. So now we have the vaccines, but the platform is still The problem, and I think this PR was still a problem. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50023	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50024	Thank you very much, here's something I can show you, in a month's time, the EU's digital confirmation is in effect, the government made a decision yesterday for our national publishing process, and here I have here via the E-Citizens' system to confirm that I have a single dose of Astra Zenec of 24.3. you can test to see if this system works well. That would be convenient for you to see how it goes with EU digital certificates. As for other topics, the vaccine is enough, 8 million doses of Astra, Pfizer BioNTech, Moderna, Johnson % Johnson more than enough for all our fellow citizens and more to support countries that have fewer. As far as dynamics are concerned, the problem of Astra being delayed across Europe has been solved by our excellent smart, intelligent action to get additional doses of Pfizer. As for the cleavage at County level they go faster than before, four ways you have, a digital platform that works, family doctors, public health institutions and e-Citizens system. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] It's gonna be okay. We just need to be vaccinated.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50025	Thank you. Comrade Pavić Marko, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50026	Thank you very much. Dear Prime Minister, the Honorable President of the Parliament. Yesterday, we have a COSAC conference which is a conference of the EU Affairs Committee, the main topics are precisely the issues of national recovery and resilience plans, employment and reflections and the Porto Social Summit. I had several interventions there, but what I saw on the IPP group in the conversation with Vice President Metsol Croatia is very good. The first thing, everyone was pleasantly surprised that we were so much discussing the National Recovery Plan here in the Parliament, the second results of measures and health and employment. And my question goes to green covid certificates, we know they apply from 1.7. Croatia from today, what have you agreed bilaterally with other Member States that we have a successful season and that we can ensure that tourists come to Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50027	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50028	Thank you very much, Mr. Pavić. As for the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, not all countries held discussions on their national plans like we here in HS, we were in the middle of the countries that handed it over, you saw the Commission's reaction, which is 6.3 billion euros for resilience and recovery and economic growth and the realisation of essential projects, including health, to which around 2.5 billion projects from the NPO alone go independently of the multiannual financial framework. As far as digital people's certificates are concerned, here I am going to show them again they are there, they exist, so they're already in office as soon as we made a decision yesterday in the government. As far as bilateral arrangements are concerned, I have personally spoken to all the Middle Eastern European prime ministers from where many tourists will come to Croatia this year. The headquarters will decide that those who have a single dose of vaccine can come to Croatia after 22 days, therefore things will be good for tourism.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50029	Thank you. Comrade Zekanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50030	The Honorable President of the Croatian Government. The Corona crisis has put many topics in another plan, when we talk about the crown crisis you will of course boast that you have solved the problem well, the opposition will criticise you, you in the corner, and I also think that things could have been done much better. However, there is one thing that is very exact and you know about it, for Mr Beros, Minister Beros knows about it, but on this issue, and his portfolio is doing nothing, namely the decision of the Constitutional Court of 2017. which is that, within two years, by 2019, a new law should be passed, I call it the Life Protection Act, you call it what you will and nothing has been done. What's going on with that? Are you planning to do that or not? Here's a short and clear one.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50031	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50032	Thank you very much. This decision of the Constitutional Court of 2017 concerning a request submitted before 2017, for example, one 25, 26, 27 years is essentially a decision binding on the legislator HS formally, not the Croatian Government. As far as this law is concerned, there was also a working group at the time of our first government and Minister Beroš when the time comes for this to become a topic will surely reactivate it and work on it and possibly prepare the basis for HS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50033	Now it's my colleague Ivanovic's turn, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50034	Thank you very much. Dear President of the Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister. What do you think of Mr. Grbin's scandalous statement, where in one I would say inappropriately to MP Djakic, he said he was privileged to treat the HDZ because he was a parliamentary representative?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50035	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50036	So just as bad as this whole pamphlet is whether or not they noticed that you were talking about the pamphlet and this whole initiative being a pamphlet. To speak so of a man who survived a more difficult form of the crown is firstly inappropriate and bad to look at any state of health individually or even in a political debate because, according to my deep conviction below the level. But what's even worse, which Mr. Grbin, and also the whole opposition has been repeating one thesis that's for the general public and for those people who may not really have a way to really check what's going on, put it on the air about people losing their meds, and that's a lie, that's a big lie. People never ran out of drugs, the health system never came to the edge of endurance, never lacked beds, never lacked a respirator, and never at any time any kind of health service came into question. And that's what's bad and embarrassing for an opposition like this. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50037	Thank you very much. Comrade Baricevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50038	Thank you very much. Dear Prime Minister, you have made a great effort to realise the comprehensive activities of the public health system in suppressing the spread of the crown of the virus, so you have said increased budget allocations for the health system that have made it possible to provide good quality health care as well as timely procurement of medical equipment, medicines and vaccines, so it is clear that all these implementing measures have increased the safety of citizens and that tourist workers have now become aware of how important vaccination is to ensure an even better tourist season. So, with the exacerbation of the epidemic and the introduction of digital green certificates, we are really moving towards a good tourist season. And let the Honorable Prime Minister suffer because you have created excellent preconditions for a successful tourist season, but also for a new economic swing.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50039	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50040	Yes, thank you very much, very much, Mr. Baricevic. By this logic, MP Kristo Vidovic is certainly also his own because you are like Bauk from Brač, so you are probably the first cousins, and we are the second, if not the third in this logic Vidović Kristo, but well. What is important and indeed I also use this opportunity once again in HS to invite all tourist workers to be vaccinated. The whole process in cooperation with the Ministry of Health, HZZO, county institutions and the Ministry of Tourism and Sports is going well and there is a great response from tourist workers, especially those who work in hotel systems, I call on all other restaurants, people who work in catering, in service activities, because that is the only way our campaign will be safe for Croatia in this season and for what we have provided, which is the vaccine that needs to be administered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50041	Thank you. Now it's time for my colleague, Hajdash Doncic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50042	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Prime Minister, I don't know what you're nervous about, but you won as you say you're too powerful in the election. Well, I think this arrogance is okay with me having you guys, it's a political arena so we can have a little bit of fun. Let's go back to, we go back to business, and so it's Minister Beroš and the health care system in Croatia. So I can't agree with you that this is a pamphlet. You can call it what you want, so it's facts. So, and the fact is that the Croatian health system is 230 million kuna per month in minus, the fact is that your associates are therefore talking about letting it into the media, furniture competitions, and what opposition should be silent about it? What should we clap for you, Bravo Andrei, you're the best? Or should we be critical of some of the things that have happened? How would you like us all to keep our mouths shut about it? Is that our right or isn't it right? I think it's our right, and it's 6. You manage the system, you could change some things and btw. As you would say, the general debt of the state, ask Mr. Marić has begun to fall in 2015, 2015.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50043	Thank you, fellow Highash Doncic. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50044	Dear Representative Doncic, first of all, I have to rephrase to you and tell you that this shows me that you're a little nervous. that you're a little nervous. [[What did you say?]] That's what I'm talking to you with this language of cousin Bauk, Kristo and Danica. This is the first remark. Secondly, you as the chief prophet, the main analyst of numbers in the SDP who spoke 68 mandates last year to the Restart Coalition, which, as we wrote to you in a very precise factually reasoned response to your pamphlet, says that your arrival has seen a sudden decline in the number of those present, but not for epidemiological reasons, and then the one at which Mrs. Kass was at. Dark-Taritash acted like lipstick. That's the point, 74 billion, the only number you have to remember is the debt that you've increased.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50045	Thank you very much. Now it's time for my colleague, Voter, here you go. ... [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50046	Listen, you didn't go far in the first round either.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50047	Please, please, let the representative go...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50048	And in another, you celebrate my Bauk anti-Semite.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50049	Prime Minister, please. ... [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50050	Just celebrating your anti-Semites.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50051	Comrade, just a moment, Comrade Bauk and Prime Minister, please... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50052	You put it on your shoulders like Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50053	Let's go, let's go, please, colleagues and colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50054	Thank you very much, obviously...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50055	What? It's just, I'm sorry, my colleague, Hidash Doncic, is in violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50056	The Prime Minister and Arsen Bauk have injured the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50057	If I did, then I'd do one great injustice because I can't give the Prime Minister a warning, and my colleague Bauku would have to give a warning, so he won't get a colleague, Bauk, please. Now let's take this one to the replica of colleague Voter, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50058	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Prime Minister, that some 30% of the self-esteem you have is where they'd end. It is very nice, but sometimes it is not easy to live in a parallel reality. It's not a sin to make mistakes, not to deal with a situation, but it's not nice when it's kept denying it and when the whole public's pretending to be crazy. The fact is that over the past year, due to the covid of the crisis, some public procurement has been extremely suspicious, not to say corrupt. The fact is that some public tenders for hospital directors were set up for HDZ, the fact that we are in debt in health care to the throat, there is no end, that waiting lists are ever longer, and that the management of the covid crisis at the very least, I'll be polite, so I'll say unmatching, responsibility obviously is gone. My question to you is how to proceed with this approach and how to learn when you are not ready to learn from some mistakes.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50059	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50060	Thank you very much, most esteemed MPs, the Voter. So I don't know by what logic the public or the government or the minister or I should see your allegations from pamphlets as irrefutable facts? You tell me just the basis why this would have to give me the trust of a political war of opposition amidst the greatest battle for the health of Croatian citizens, the greatest battle for the stability of Croatian finances, the greatest battle for the preservation of jobs, the greatest battle against those who say that the crown is a caries or flu compared to those who have been exposed every day 24 hours to never question the bed in hospitals, not to question the respirator, not to question the cure or to question the vaccine. There's this huge difference, you have the right to do it, you have that privilege, you use it for another 3 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50061	Comrade Ahmetovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50062	Thank you very much. Dear Prime Minister, do you know what the deficit of the Croatian budget is? Do you know what the deficit is? Well, Minister Maric knows for sure because he sweats every time he has to pay his debts because of the failure of Minister Beros, and he has no place to go, so he grabs his head. Do you get paid for your work? So the government has done nothing that has not been paid for, it has allocated money to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, not its money or money from your pockets, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And it's not easy work, your job isn't easy, because you have to defend the man who accused you of setting up the competition. In a phone conversation, he said that the setting up of the contest was under your blessing. But let's leave it, let's go back to that so-called. gossip. Do you know who Milka Car Prijic and Petar Marasovic are? Tell them in the microphone they were gossiping when they didn't have any drugs.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50063	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50064	Dear MP Ahmetovic. You know the decisions of those who got the trust and majority trust of voters about what to do with a particular public policy or how to deal with a crisis isn't some difolt, not some autopilot, not some standard operating procedure that someone who's got trust taking some kind of liquid on a shelf or under a table, read which side, which is the point, and let's do it, is that key difference. The difference between your perception and perception why 700,000 workers got paid, why Croatia has eight million doses of vaccines ordered, and more than three who come to 30.6. and why Croats in this crisis had all medicines, all medicines. If you found one or two men of four million Croats who may have been late for one day then it is not the the thesis that in Croatia there was ever a lack of medication [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] And keep those lies to yourself [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]] away from the public. [[Intruder President: Thank you Prime Minister.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50065	Here's a violation of my colleague Ahmetovic's rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50066	Thank you very much. The Prime Minister has been injured by an article. In 238, it also disrespects my common sense and common common sense for all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Milka Car Prijic and Petar Marasovic are people who have not received the medicine, they are cancer patients and do not expose the truth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50067	Just a little, please, fellow Ametovic, you have injured the Rules of Procedure that is clear to you and you are getting a warning, because it was a replica because it was not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. It is known what is a violation of the Rules of Procedure and what is a replica. Let's move on, let's move on, let's go, let's go, let's go. Let's go. Let's go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50068	Good afternoon. Dear Prime Minister, I don't really have a replica. I have a question that could have been addressed to Minister Beros here. My question is about patients who had covid and whose condition required them to be hospitalized. All these patients when they were fired from the hospital were generally and for a reason were scheduled to have an X-ray of the lungs in 3 to 4 weeks, but in practice these patients were waiting for three and four months sometimes for the x-ray of the lungs. How is that possible? And how is it possible that the system has failed so much, and what are we going to do, what exactly will you and Minister Beroš do to solve this problem? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50069	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50070	Thank you very much, Mr. Bakic. I don't know about that information, and I don't know that it's just all the patients who got over covid or that they've all waited three or four months, and not for a few weeks, that's the subject to be answered by Minister Beros, so ask him later during the day.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50071	And we're going to the last line for Prime Minister Branko Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50072	I thank the President of the Parliament. Your Honor, Prime Minister. On today in the Republic of Croatia, 137,000 workers are unemployed, for comparison, at 2018 level. at the end of May or a few thousand more than at the time of the record 2019. This is certainly the result of the work of the Government, measures, economic measures, support for the preservation of jobs, the preservation of business activities and the liquidity of our entrepreneurs on the one hand, and on the other hand the work of the health system and the balanced measures which we have taken care of the health of our fellow citizens, as well as the health care of our economy. So now I'm interested in what professional backgrounds were conducted by SDP experts when they predicted 400,000 unemployed for today, which is about three times as much. It's a good thing to make a thousand, two, but to mistake 280,000 unemployed is really one piece of information that speaks of professional approach. serious access to the SDP. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50073	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50074	Thank you very much, Mr. Bacic. Here goes SDP's chief prophet, analyst, weatherman, risk manager Mr. Hajdas Doncic, who was one of the 68 mandates of Restart instead of 5.7., while others spoke of 400,000 unemployed. We not only have more employees today than in 2020 at this time but also in 2019, which means that the measures to preserve jobs in which we invested nearly 10.7 billion kuna for nearly 700,000 workers, for 120,000 employers, took effect. As a result, the situation is economic, employment situation, and fewer unemployed are the same as we do today. It didn't happen by accident, it didn't happen by itself, and that decision was made by the one who got the citizens' trust. to bring them, which is our government with the support of the parliamentary majority. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50075	Thank you. Now, please, let's wipe out the pay phone so Minister Berosch can come. We have five replicas for Minister Beros. First in line, she will be a colleague of Romana Nikolic. Here, you can go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50076	I thank the President of the Parliament. Dear Minister. Since you have repeatedly called for compliance with the measures against covida-19, and you have publicly violated the measures yourself by taking pictures and pose with the celibities where you came from and on the basis of which evidence did you shut down the gyms and fitness centres and calling them that those centres were hotspots, even threatened with sanctions if the headquarters decisions were not respected? And now that the work of many activities that are more risky to carry the infection is allowed, sports and recreation clubs remain closed after eight months. How illogical and discriminatory your decisions are here's one fact that I and my wife can go to the pools, but I'm not allowed to dance in the dance hall. Please explain that to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50077	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50078	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, I'd like to answer you the following way. So, in 15.8.2020, when I took a picture in a particular environment, I did not violate the measures or if you think that I have violated tell me what measures these measures are because the alleged that the lady in question should have been in self-insulation is completely untrue, it is not true. At the insistence of the lady herself due to a breach of GDPR, the Faculty of Public Health in the city of Split has been contacted, which has decidedly said that she has not been self-insulated. So, being out in the open in the company of 5 people with whom I was constantly on Hvar for 4 days was not a violation of the measures. At that time, we had 168 hospitalized patients, 11 on the respirator, and the percentage positive among newly detected patients was 4.7%. So I don't see what measures I was breaking back then. Furthermore, I will answer your question. on other measures to be taken on the basis of epidemiological criteria. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50079	Thank you very much. Let's move on, colleague Glavasevic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50080	Dear Mr. Minister, good afternoon, welcome to the Croatian Parliament. According to a survey by Roda Association, even a third of women in Croatia had a lower birth experience during the pandemic. In this study, women also talked about the fact that pregnancy care was reduced, that the checks were rarer, many had to use private health services, and one of the biggest problems cited was the problem of denying escorts in the maternity ward. The follow-up at the time of the pandemic was only 20% of pregnant women, prior to the pandemic, at 62%. My question to you is why the ministry did not at some point give clearer instructions that could solve this problem because this problem is particularly expressed in both Slavonia and Dalmatia, and according to my information, 2 out of 4 birthplaces in Zagreb still do not allow escorts to the nursery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50081	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50082	Thank you. I thank you for the question, Mr. Parliamentary Representative, I will tell you that as Minister of Health, I am satisfied with the way we have arranged for other health care compared to Covid-19 positive patients. We have tried to protect especially vulnerabilities and those such as births that are exceptional. In this context, the epidemiological profession has given very clear instructions and cannot be clearer in those circumstances compared to the infrastructure characteristics of individual birthplaces when someone can be present at birth, when not. The Ministry of Health recognises the importance of presence and self-porting births, however, it is of exceptional importance for the director of each health organization, in accordance with epidemiological recommendations, to decide whether or not the preconditions for being present at birth have been met, primarily bearing in mind the health of birth, child and all others who participate in the provision of health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50083	Find a colleague, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50084	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, I'd like to ask you a few questions for you. First, I'm interested in you coming to the bakery to buy bread would it be normal for you to pay for bread today, and if someone told you to pick it up in six months, and then after that question, is it normal for you to pay for healthcare services today, and then someone tells you to come in six months? I think it's a much more serious thing than buying bread at the bakery. I would further ask you to respond and what is the current state of debt for overtime in the health care system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50085	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50086	Thank you, Mr. President. So, I'd like to answer that healthcare debts have been dating for decades now, that we're really working on resolving them. I thank both the government and the finance minister who recognizes this problem and we made a certain projection of the debt payment by the end of the year. When it comes to waiting lists which are also asked, they are reduced in different ways, and mainly by an e-order system that was implemented about half a year ago to the minimum possible extent. In addition, there are priority waiting lists that allow all those who are in danger, who are in such a health condition to require urgent processing so that they can, therefore, achieve it. And that's what's basic. And your last question was, that's right, when it comes to overtime last year at the 4th month, I solved the problem of profuturo, when signing the supplement to the collective contract, the third, which just defines that question and the issue of the past tense has been resolved by this budget [[Intruder: Thank you.]] the rebalancing of the budget. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50087	Comrade Habib, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50088	Thank you very much. Dear President, the Honorable Prime Minister, ministers, here I must note, together with my colleague Beros that somehow the interest of the opposition has fallen, last time they held out until 16 hours, last time until 14, today here's half one, it seems that the arguments are on the side of the minister. If you can just answer one thing, in this crisis that doesn't turn out that you didn't actually have your ministry dealing with some other things, I think we'll all agree that the Immunological Institute is a legal person who is of particular national and strategic interest with a hundred-year tradition of the production of immunological medicines and I think that just at the time of this pandemic Covid-19 the need for reitalization of production within the Immunological Institute is even more pronounced because viral vaccines are produced by the most categories. In view of the above, please tell me if you can tell what is happening within the ministry in particular regarding the revitalisation of the Immunological Institute. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50089	Here, here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50090	Thank you very much, Mr. President. An extremely important issue, the revitalisation of the Immunological Institute is under way. Last year, at the 9th month, we formed an inter-resor working group that evaluated the issue. Meanwhile, opinions from financial, regulatory and legal institutions were obtained and a model was created, a proposed model of revitalisation. So, the plan to implement the revitalisation of the Immunological exists, it is extremely important because it also includes the production of viral vaccines, which we know is at this point a global pandemic of exceptional significance but not only of them but also of blood plasma preparations, and also anti-snap bites antitoxins. An inter-resorial consultation has been completed at the moment. It is being prepared, so the proposal for a framework and guidelines for the programme of revitalisation of the Immunological Presentation in the Government, and I believe that we will soon have the first basis for revitalising the Immunological Institute as such.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50091	And we're going to the last line of our colleagues, Shimičević, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50092	I would like to thank the President of the Croatian Parliament, the representative of the Croatian Government, the Honorable Minister. Here we are witnesses and pandemics of immeasurable proportions so far that we didn't even know what it was, what hit us. And while we were witnessing horror films from developed countries where actually terrible things were happening, Croatia managed to resist and the system was not at all compromised. And I like that you're a man who thinks about the moral consequences of your actions, and at no time have you said that you're not responsible for anything. You always showed responsibility for certain shortcomings that were. And now that we have a sufficient number of vaccines, we haven't heard from the opposition to call people to be vaccinated so they can prepare for the tourist season, and when there was no vaccine, then we weren't able to get the vaccine.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50093	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50094	Thank you. Well, you're a respected Mr. Parliamentarian quite right. What is important in saying that the government of the Republic of Croatia has provided enough vaccines for free vaccination of all Croatian citizens who want to. We are all tasked with fostering that interest. It's over 8 million 855,000 vaccines. Furthermore, the Croatian health system has adapted to the current task, we have dynamicized vaccination, over 3 hundreds and 2 vaccination points in the Republic without the family medicine office. Therefore, all preconditions for reaching our goal, the split of Croatian citizens by the end of the sixth month are there. We just have to appeal to our citizens, indicate that vaccination is of paramount importance in the fight against this epidemic and vaccination is the means that will first provide us with a return to the old normal. That's very important. The Croatian health system is able to secure and perform the task.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50095	Thank you. Thank you, Minister Berosch. It's over with the replicas, so you can go back to the scene and we'll now take a break up to 12 hours and 50 minutes and then continue to discuss the club representatives. The first is the HDZ Representatives' Club. It's 11:00.37.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50096	Here's the debate. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 11:53 A.M.]] The first to discuss is the HDZ Representatives' Club, the Honorable Vice-President of the Parliament, Željko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50097	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, the Honorable Dominister, dear colleagues and colleagues. What he has said here is a political, dramatic representative of the coat of arms, most of which is not in the document submitted as a request for impeachment, and it is not because I rarely saw such a superficial, unprofessional, unargumented and confusing document which should be very serious and reasoned because it requires the recall of a minister in the government. Yes, the document is indeed a simple pamphlet filled with big but empty words such as the catastrophic state of health, debacle systems and the like, filled with flat-rate reviews and nothing based claims, and the little data that can be found in it is simply guilty and untrue. All that's missing is the accusation that Professor Beros personally infected bats in Wuhan Corona with the virus. So right away at the beginning, I want to tell the creators of that creamy pamphlet you're ashamed of. But I'm going to try to tell the figures and arguments what it's really about. In the opening part of the pamphlet, its creators, among other things, claim to exist, quote: "Corruption and theft of public money at the time of the pandemic in order to please the close persons of Minister Beros. If that were true, they would be legally obliged to report it to DORH, PNUSKOK, and so on. and not raise the question of trust with the Minister of Parliament. If they don't do it and they have at least one proof that it's punishable and they're accomplices. If they don't, it's slander, but they know that they can slander peacefully because they are protected from prosecution by parliamentary immunity. The Croatian healthcare system ensures the implementation of the most modern and extremely expensive forms of treatment, with a very small absolute amount of money available. About 862 euros per capita, not 861 as the pamphlet authors miswritten. In doing so, the huge pawnage of primarily healthcare professionals achieves the same or similar level of health care as some other European countries that have no higher, but incomparably higher resources per capita. For example, the EU average is 2982 euros for health care countries, so almost 3,000 euros. In Denmark, it is as much as 5256 euros. So six times more than in Croatia. In Germany 4627, Austria 4501, and in Slovenia 1831 euros per capita. And who can seriously argue that in Croatia we have a four and a half times worse health system than in Austria or two and a half times worse than in Slovenia. How many surface authors of this pamphlet best illustrate the following example. Taking EUROSTAT's 2018 data, it states that Croatia stands out for health care about 8.6% of GDP, but they simply turned the figures there because it says that Croatia stands out 6.8%. Shame on you, you don't know exactly how to rewrite the figures from official European documents. As an important argument, the authors of the pamphlet state that a report by the Ombudsman for 2020 said that 328 complaints were received from the public in the field of health when it was known that in that year the Croatian health system had diagnosed a little less than 3.8 million people, this argument seemed quite grotesque even though it was necessary to impress all those who were not informed. But the most obvious ones are the authors of this pamphlet, because otherwise they would never write it. The authors of the pamphlet are predicating, again, that Minister Beros did not launch a health reform before the start of the pandemic. First, Professor Beroš swore on January 31st, 2020, and the authors of the pamphlet must know that the first case of covida 19 was recorded on February 25th of that year. This would indeed be a very serious and essential reform that could be made within three weeks, certainly according to the recipe for successful reforms carried out by the authors of this pamphlet when they were in power. However, it should be made clear that the Croatian government is still on 9 January 2020. Only a day after China declared the epidemic began to prepare seriously for the pandemic. That is why we were able to deal so successfully with the first wave of pandemic when we were among the best in Europe. And while we are already at the pandemic in Croatia, thanks to the government's timely actions at no time, despite the seriousness of the situation, there was no shortage of sick beds or respirators for all patients who needed them, for example in some other significantly richer and more developed countries, so the authors of this pamphlet simply lie when they say that there are not enough sick beds in us, respirators. Shame on you! In Croatia, at no time did it happen as in some other countries that because of the failure of the health system and the inability to care for all the necessary patients, they must be transported to other countries for treatment. In addition, despite the pandemics and despite the devastating earthquakes other countries had not continuously treated from all emergency conditions and serious diseases such as those of the malignant. All who were to be dialysis received their haemodialysiss, etc. Do the authors of this pamphlet really think that Croatian citizens are goldfish so they don't remember what's going on? Shame on you. It is precisely the incredible arrogance of the authors of this pamphlet when they dare talk about the alleged debacle of vaccination in us. Again, they think that Croatian citizens are goldfish, so they forgot that the whole of Europe had problems because the world's companies that contracted to deliver large amounts of vaccines were unable to deliver. Croatia shared the fate of all other European countries even though it ordered 8.7 million doses of vaccines. So, they simply lie when they claim, I quote: “they did not initially reserve enough amounts of vaccine.” But today they talk about this pamphlet of vaccination is completely deplaced when we know that more than one third of the population has been vaccinated, and what percentage less than, for example, in a rich well-organised Germany, while in a rich and well-organised Japan it is only about 4.9% that the vaccination in Croatia is not interrupted for a single day, and what happened in some European countries. As alleged evidence of an alleged failure of the vaccination system, the only way to come up with information is to quote it, only 3120 doses of the vaccine were spent on Sunday, April 25th, 24 hours. They consciously chose Sundays when they always tested and vaccinated fewer citizens, but did not indicate that, for example, 57,184 doses were spent on Thursday (May 20th). Poor even from you, you're ashamed. It's definitely that the authors of the pamphlet think our citizens are goldfish because otherwise they wouldn't have dared mention health debts at all. Do they think that citizens can't look at portals and see that after their first rule in 2004, when the prices of medicines and medical equipment were incomparably lower than today, staff salaries are much lower, and the crown didn't even exist, the debt of health care of 7 billion and 300 million kuna. And they have the nerve to talk about the health obligations in the hospital system this year's 4.1 billion kuna is even incorrect because they were around 3.3 billion kuna on 30 April. In fact, they claim that I quote, particularly threatened oncology and dialysis patients, which is simply a lie. Shame on you. The authors of this pamphlet have the nerve to talk about the cost of overtime to healthcare professionals who, by the way, are paying. But they really think that Croatian citizens are goldfish, so they do not remember that during their second rule, reduced salaries to healthcare professionals and were the biggest and greatest strike of doctors since Croatia existed, 58 days because their government did not want to pay off the collective contract and the Croatian laws to hospital doctors on duty, preparedness and overtime. I'm going to quote a statement to a doctor in those days, and we're also warning this strike about the conditions of work that are catastrophic, there are 4,000 doctors missing, young people don't hire sisters either. And just to remind you that this longest strike in the health care of the workers you're supposed to be so worried about has been interrupted. By your government having made a scandalous anti-constitutional and anti-conclusive decision on the introduction of a labour obligation. That year, only in January from the Croatian stomach after bread went to the same number of doctors as in the entire previous year. For your governments, it was also the biggest strike of nurses. That's the real truth about your care for healthcare professionals. Shame on you. So how did you even think to write a pamphlet like this? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50098	The next debate is on behalf of the promoter, Željko Pavić, a respected representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50099	Dear Vice President, and one and the other, respected ministers from the co-workers, so here I would just draw attention that none of us from the opposition thinks our people, our Croats are goldfish. In fact, we believe that they are our greatest good, and that is why we are trying to do something for their even greater good. We're trying to draw attention to things that aren't right. I don't think it's just a debate about Minister Beros now, it's about procedures and prime ministers, procedures and headquarters and government procedures. Here, just one question, here's Minister Beros, if there's one question. A moment ago, the prime minister called for the vaccination of tourist workers because they would work over the summer, when you invited our teachers, our professors and our university professors to be vaccinated? When, when they worked with students all the time, they worked with students all the time, they were in kindergartens, when you invited them? That's what I'm talking about. That's the kind of relationship I'm talking about. If you remember the minister when we talked here I asked you to put in your headquarters a risk manager who will know and recognize the risks and those risks clearly control and direct. It is not enough for doctors who know the root problems to be present at that headquarters to be managers who know these risks to recognize and direct and see where the greatest risks are to make our people better, to have fewer infected, to have fewer dead. That's what we were talking about here once. And let me refer to what I asked the prime minister about public procurement. When you have a public procurement or when you have a purchase and you want someone to get that job, then write an invitation invitation. In that invitation contest, call the person who needs to get a job and she gets a job. But if you put the title that it's a public call, a public tender, and if only one person can answer that contest, only one firm, only my friend, then it's called a set-up competition. So I said that this contest was staged, and it wasn't a solution that was an information solution, it was just one module, it was an upgrade of an existing system that paid 4.5 million kunas of people. 4.5 million kuna, and it was only necessary to send existing services. And then the Prime Minister insinuates that we don't know what we're talking about, we know what we're talking about. We know very well. All the experts said it was a very simple solution. I told this speaker that this is a problem solution at the level of one of the lab exercises of the students of the second year of ETF or FER. Right on that level. And now that I've got the government's answer, I think it's even easier because it didn't take much programming to just invite existing services and do a few controls. So I'm still saying what I said to the prime minister, and please, it would be good for the minister and his associates, and the prime minister to answer our questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50100	We have two replicas, the first distinguished representative of Marina Opačak Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50101	Thank you. Dear colleague, I would only add to your debate when you asked Minister Beros and Prime Minister if they had called, when they called for the teacher's vaccination, I would have added here when they called the sellers, the merchants who have since day one who have been in contact with thousands and thousands of people daily, they are not invited among the first. That's all she would have added.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50102	Well, yeah, that's, that's our problem that I wanted to draw attention to and thank you for supplementing me. It's about calling the population in question first, that's what it's all about. Here, I didn't vaccinate in the assembly, and I got hurt, I got a crown, and I didn't have a good time. And I didn't vaccinate in the assembly because it was an indication that first pensioners and older people were inoculated, and then the press started writing that we had some kind of privilege and that we were taking their vaccine and I didn't want to be vaccinated, and I was hoping that I wouldn't be infected before we called our own, my own personal family doctor. But the problem is, Minister, that I still do today, and I believe neither you, you don't know what the criteria of our family doctors were when they invited patients to be vaccinated. I'm not going to tell you now what diseases I have, but today I'm not invited to vaccination, and by all the things you said on television that are criteria, so the most severe patients, the ones who have the diseases that are dangerous, should have been called first.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50103	Time. The next replica is Honorable Vice President Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50104	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President HS. My colleague Pavić, you still think they're citizens of goldfish, I think. First of all, you know very well that health care professionals were first called and vaccinated, so that they were then invited and vaccinated, not only invited but also vaccinated by homes etc., elderly persons and persons at risk of health because these were epidemiological data, because professional data indicated that they were more sensitive, that the mortality among them is greater if the Covid-19 erased, etc. Third, I don't know what you're surprised at now that no alleged tourist employees have been invited. So every day when you open a TV you can see, you don't need to open anything else, just open the TV and you'll see that the very tourist employees are getting a massive split just because we expect the tourist season to be as good as possible and that the situation is safer for our guests as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50105	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50106	Your Honor, Agent Reiner, you've heard something wrong and you've misremembered and you've misunderstood. I said that the prime minister had now invited tourist workers to the vaccination and I asked the question when they were invited to the vaccinated workers, or teachers, of this school teacher and university professors. I think they should have been the first to be called to vaccination because they work with a bunch of kids who don't feel the crown, who don't even know they have a crown. That's what I said, I didn't say that there weren't any visitors before, so I hope you'll appreciate this, you can listen to the video I said before.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50107	Thank you. Next comes the Club of Representatives of the Most, MPs Rasdić and Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50108	My colleagues and colleagues, today we are discussing a request for the replacement of the Minister of Health, a request that we of the MOST Club have supported. But our discussion should not focus on just one person and her sins, and I will list them 7.7 sins of Minister Beros, but on the completely missed health policy of the HDZ government, which is metaphorically said one health train without a timetable whose Willy Beros is just the last car, and we know who the locomotive is. And we could see that today where the minister was left for 45 seconds, we didn't have time to pick up the tablet as quickly as it took his ability to talk, there was a great prime minister who now doesn't have to defend him. Today after he's 5. Andrej Plenkovic in power, and 5. He knows what a five-year-old is. The 5th is a time when serious economic cycles and reforms can be implemented. So, after 5. It is more than clear that Plenkovic's government's health care management was not a priority, the more the impression remains that they and their associated interest circles are suited to the unedited health system. I will speak of the sins of Willy Berosh, among whom is the most sin of failure, then several sins of deeds, and some are the sins of words. But preliminaryly, it is necessary to point out the following. In these last five years. how happy we are with the leadership of Andrej Plenkovic and his health ministers has not taken any concrete measures to stabilise the health system that is in huge problems, not at any level, no financial, no organisational, no personnel. The choice of ministers may best show how much Andrej Plenkovic holds to health. Minister Kujundzic spent 3 and a half years during which the only change in the system he made was a change in the ministry's name from the health ministry to the health ministry. All that time, the losses were piling up, doctors and nurses were leaving the system, not running, no organizational and systemic changes triggered. Kujundzic's closest associate and assistant was Willi Beroš, who happily jumped into his post after Kujundzic's fall, and unfortunately continued the same course of inaction. However, we are now taxing on those seven sins of Minister Beros. First, he didn't financially rationalize the system, or try to do it. Moreover, the costs of the health system have increased even though the scope of the service provided is significantly reduced in this coronary situation. How come? How come? Secondly, its vision is if it is also a vision of some kind of financial stabilisation system primarily based on new taxes, new taxes, excise duties, new allocations for health insurance. That's not the way. Thirdly, it has no reason to extend the procurement of protective equipment, tests and other materials outside the public procurement system. I would like to remind you that at the end of the 3rd month last year, the Government made a decision that all supply of covid equipment goes under covertly and beyond the Public Procurement Act. If the first month, two of these were understandable and all over the world everyone was looking for this equipment was being produced, later when the world market was stabilised, that's why it goes past the Public Procurement Act? We have a legitimate right to suspect that this is for the convenience of certain suppliers, we have heard of florists and manual photographers. Four, total disorganization of the vaccination order system. Although the Republic of Croatia has a decisive system of e-ordering of patients who are well-recognizable in the EU, it is therefore not that we did not have the basis for doing so. The fifth sin is non-sanctioning the excessive vaccination of political powers, even personally placed in the health system's top places. I mentioned Iskra Primorac, a young economist and her husband in her 30s, healthy people who were vaccinated on January 22nd, while under long pipes they were still transporting vaccines and there were no people on the front line. Nothing, her recall wasn't initiated. She was awarded a new term in Regos. That's Mr. Damir Plenkovic's pardon, Andrej Plenkovic, has been silent, has passed over my question. The sixth, problem of debt to the big drugstores. We heard that the problem was solved, and in fact it only re-indebted with the banks, so now it's partly due to the large-scales, and partly to the banks. And there's not a reduction in that debt-growing hole and the problem is going to escalate again very quickly, the question is just wanted to be in 5, 7 or 9 months. As the seventh sin of Minister Beros, I quote the devastion of the state hospitals in Zagreb starting with a decision whose consequences will only be summed up and assessed when all this with the crown is over, the decision to turn KB Dubrava exclusively into a covid hospital according to the Chinese and Italian models that proved to be bad, not taking into account that it was a hospital that had cardio and neurosurgery of high-different specialities that general hospitals do not have, which are now lost. And there's tolerance for who knows what reasons we're hoping to find out soon, all the problems and conflicts at Sister Mercy's hospital that led to the human and organisational devastation of that hospital, and that culminated in the threat of a strike at the tumour clinic that is an integral part of that hospital. In the Beroshe health system, we also met with fascinating oxymoron thought loop vaccination of excess vaccines in short. The seriousness of its approach and organisational abilities is the following, I quote: “The order can be made when the cheese and cream are bought, but such order when it comes to vaccination cannot be,” that is the attitude he is auding those who have already abused the system and encourages, while also encouraging others to do the same. How can a man who has such an explicit public attitude carry out a reform of one of the most complex public systems? Finally, Minister Beroš made a heavy accusation at the beginning of the epidemic that there was a fifth column among the hospital doctors that manipulates the data on protective equipment, then accused skiers of bringing a covid to the KB Zagreb because of their irresponsibility, he announced investigations into these cases and sanctioning the responsible. The investigations have not been conducted or initiated to date. Why? In the meantime, did he become highly indulgent or not investigated because he did not speak the truth and manipulate and deceive the public, and now he came into a position to be investigated by the state authorities for dealing with a platform of vaccines.hr in an Allanford plot with florists and as I said to the handsome photographers.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50109	And now something completely different. If the prime minister surprises us and does something completely unexpected, such as rejecting any reasoned opposition arguments and keeping Minister Beros I will state seven reasons why Beros should remain minister. First reason, we can't just take away the superheroes from kids. Another reason, it is a shame to spend a good minister on this crisis, Minister Beros can take many more blows because of the wrong and incompetent government policy, such as the one surrounding the European procurement of vaccines and our roles in this. Thirdly, it is good that the state encourages start-up companies that can train the development of failed applications about our instead of our own cost, it is not every Infobip. Incompetent informers must be caught somewhere. Fourthly, if social distance measures are in place again, which will take pictures of local pop stars on the Adriatic coast. Fifthly, it is difficult to find so many co-operative ministers who will be able to give up all responsibility to the Minister of the Interior, to activate the Civil Protection Act instead of the one on the protection of the public against infectious diseases. The sixth, Prime Minister Plenkovic must defend Minister Beros so that after he has been told he has to leave, Minister Beros thought he still needs to be grateful for the fact that he would feel a natural inclination that I offered to resign so that he would not be weighed down by the worshiped government as has already done by a horde of former ministers who went the same way. And seven, last but most importantly, because so far HDZ's personnel policy has taught us only one thing, and that's that it can always get worse.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50110	Here in the name of the Government, distinguished representative Willy Berosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50111	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I don't think I'm sinless, but I'd very much like to answer these charges on my own with the fact that before I try to explain to Mr. Pavić what it is about calling the professor. So at the government meeting on several occasions, there were conversations among the different resolutions that each person showed the need for vaccination. In this regard, a survey of tourist workers, professors, teachers and lists were conducted in HZZ. According to these lists, vaccinations have been made, so I must tell you that the teachers and teachers were scheduled to do so and were invited. What is the fact that they have not responded in a good way, to a good extent and that all together must worry us and we must work to raise awareness of both teachers and teachers and other citizens that vaccination is the best way out of this crisis. So much for calling. So professors and teachers are invited because Minister Fuchs has made a specific inquiry to all those who are interested and who have shown, it is the same for kindergartens who have been vaccinated, etc. Furthermore, you were talking about public procurement, and I am responsibly saying, and behind that, I am saying that all the processes that were being conducted, the public procurement at the Ministry of Health, that they were of open character. So, open procurement procedures and I'm glad that one of your colleagues of your SDPs reported me to the institutions because if he hadn't done it, I would have done it because I don't want to suffer such meals on my own account. So the minister doesn't interfere with the professional service business. It fits if something legal happens, illegally, so I'll answer unless it's properly implemented public procurement, but professional services assure me that everything has been prescribed. Furthermore, you were talking about the platform, you're very wrong when you think it's just a web platform, a website for ordering platforms. No, the platform is a whole solution that makes up 10 functions. Don't wave your finger at me because I know what I'm talking about, and I'm going to read them to you, and that's a public website for showing interest, that's the element you're talking about. However, a web integration service with GX applications for primary health care 2 components, 3, smart call centre and associated web service, a web service for communication with a list of interested and smart call centres, a list of stakeholders as a national database of interested citizens and belonging to a web service, a web public web service that makes it impossible to register through logical controls, enrolling the wrong OIB, the wrong MBO, etc., application for ad hoc vaccination order, be sent systems that are present in all vaccination points, over 300 of them in the Republic. Furthermore, portal Health and e-order system. Therefore, an extremely complex platform that needs to be designed and has been developed by the largest Croatian IT companies that had previously contracted for adaptive and corrective maintenance within which a new functionality is sought. So, all according to regulations, all according to the public procurement process. So much, I felt the need to answer you. Now I wouldn't know of these sins, I don't know which, because I won't get all seven. The devastation of the KB of Dubrava, let's say we've been going ever since. So we had to decide that one place in the Zagreb region we had over 400 to 500 respirators. Offer me another option, I'll admit my mistake, if you're offering it. Furthermore, the truth is that no replacement has been found for cardio-surgery and other patients, it has been found, people in Dubrava worked at the KBC of the Mercy Sisters, the KB of Mercury, so the same activities, controlled their people, had hospitals in health homes, over 30,000 checks were carried out in these health homes. And in addition, Covid patients had some of these precisely heart disease-surgery, neurosurgery-treated diseases in KB Dubrava. So, we did everything we could to ensure Croatian citizens the best treatment in Covid. I don't think it's standing, and it's been hard for me to make that decision. I didn't make it on my own. I have consulted with all the Zagreb directors. The decision was unison, there are no other options. Why? Because all other hospitals are old pavilion type without the necessary installation, Dubrava is the only hospital of the newer type that had the necessary installations for the implementation of 400 to 500 respirators as long as we thought it would need the Republic of Croatia. Thank God we cheated, we had extras, but the extras in this case don't hurt. We had tents ready in case of need. Therefore, all for the purpose of protecting the health of Croatian citizens. And now I can't do this anymore, the other sins But I'd be happy to answer that. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50112	We have a few replicas, Ministers wait. The first is the distinguished representative Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50113	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I will answer the word multiple times and I guarantee you that in the end you will say that I am both honest and objective. So we're here to discuss what's good and what's not good, what hasn't been solved and what needs to be fixed. Now, a particular question in your ministerial mandate that you've all sent all the hospitals to, how many times have you sent the Health Ministry inspections, what are the findings of these inspections, what were they and what were you specifically doing? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50114	The answer to your question would be complex and long, I'll only mention some elements that refer to excessive vaccination. Yeah, I intervened in those cases, I sent a health inspection, say, to a hospital in Dubrava. I have asked all other health institutions for a report on the implementation of the programme plan for the introduction, implementation and control of vaccinations in the Republic of Croatia and on the findings of certain inspections, we have referred solutions to the competent chamber, the Croatian medical chamber for further treatment because there are certain violations of medical ethics and delinthology. In all other cases of application of certain dysfunctionalities, we send a spot-based health inspection. You also know that she was in Čakovec, that she found certain dysfunctions in the hematological department, that the health inspection prescribed a solution with the way to solve this problem at the director of the health institution to continue to act and solve the same. A health inspection was also sent about the latest developments in the Vinograd hospital.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50115	Next replica Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50116	I hope that the Croatian public will follow the question that I will ask you because I consider it really important. In response to the prime minister's question and the question was about the dramatic number of Covid deaths in Croatia compared to the rest of the world, the prime minister gave a very interesting answer. He said these 8,000 people died with Covid, not Covid. For a whole year, we've been afraid in the headquarters reports with unambiguous information from the numbers of the dead of Covid. We also had cases where one mother reacted in the Split hospital and warned that her child had not died from Covid, but from other diseases, and now suddenly the entire rhetoric changes and no one died from Covid. Everyone died with Covid. Please tell us in unequivocally how many people died with Covid and how many people from Covid. When the Prime Minister makes the difference, you obviously have that information.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50117	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50118	Thank you for asking. That question needs to be resolved. It's not possible to give you an answer from your sleeve like this. What I'm saying is that we haven't reorganised the Croatian healthcare system including the KB Dubrava so unfortunately the fatalities could be far more. The fact is that there are certain recommendations in the professional literature and the definition of death by Covid is defined by the World Health Organization and the CDC which speak the criteria for declaring death by Covid. The fact is, some patients who are suffering from chronic diseases, etc. have with the infection Covid an additional cause that makes their health worse and they unfortunately die. Whether they would have died in the same time frame if they hadn't been affected by Covid is a big question and therefore there are certain doubts as to the interpretation and collection of these data. However, the Croatian Institute of Public Health is aware of these issues and has already launched an audit and evaluation of all dead during Covid.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50119	Next replica. And excuse me, we have a breach of Rules of Procedure Maria Selak Rasudic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50120	Article 238 demeaning by not getting an answer to the question. If an audit is launched, please get to know the Croatian public urgently about the findings of the audit. We've been scared all year by how many people died of Corona. Suddenly, when political mortality no longer corresponds to the prime minister, he says no one died of Corona, but died with Corona. This information is crucial for Croatian citizens. You've created this mess with untimely information. I'm asking you to get rid of her.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50121	Since you already have a warning. This is a second reminder and on the basis of Article 240(1), I give you a reminder by taking away the words. The next replica is the esteemed representative Nino Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50122	Thank you. Dear Minister Beroš, I think the Croatian public deserves an answer to two questions. The first is about the accusation you made at the beginning of the epidemic, which is that among the hospital doctors there are quotes: "the fifth column disinformation about the condition of the equipment", and at the time you accused skiers of bringing Covid to KBC Dubrava, and you cited investigations and sanctions for the responsible. Now I want to know what's going on with the investigation and the sanctions. The second question, I will return to Mrs. Iskru Primorac, on January 22nd, this healthy 35-year-old woman, along with an equally healthy husband, and she is the chairman of the KBC Zagreb Management Council, was vaccinated before Angela Merkel, before medical staff in the first line of battle against Coronavirus. Why did you not act in accordance with your powers and in accordance with Article 19? The KBC Zagreb Statute and requested her recall?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50123	Here, Your Honor, Mr. Parliamentary Representative, thank you for your questions. So I'm going to introduce you to the situation that morning when I got a chat message with a picture of a certain position in KBC Zagreb without protective equipment at the moment when we were all afraid that there would really be a lack of protective equipment. What could I do rather than call the director of the facility at dawn and ask: “Is it possible that there is no protective equipment in KBC?” I said, “It is not true. He's got it." He's gone, he's checked, he's got the equipment. So someone purposely wanted to create the impression that the equipment was gone, which is why I said so emotionally at that point. Why? Because I felt responsible for having enough protective equipment in Replica Croatia. And then, if you remember a few days later, we got a big donation from the Arab world, and then came the first shipment from China to form and meet our needs until today. That's why I reacted so much from my desire, both the desires and the obligations to provide enough protective equipment and, of course, that in that context, I was led by lies and lies.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50124	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50125	Furthermore, when it comes to skiers, I know it was a problem. However, it wasn't me who accused them, it was the director of the KBC and the Governing Council of the KBC. I know there's been an act of this matter, but within the framework of I'm sorry, too long. [[Intruder: Minister's time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50126	Time's up. The next replica, distinguished representative Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50127	Dear Minister, if you remember what I said, I said at first that we were not only talking about you, but also about your associates, and about the prime minister and the government's work. Why not you? Because I believe that most of those decisions that have been made were not made by you. And that's what I said the last time I had that speech in the assembly, I said that those decisions are made by people who are in the headquarters, but that should be a slightly different profile of people. Secondly, I was talking about the module. Not about the platform. Why was I talking about the module? Because that module could have made anyone that the contest was written differently. However, the contest was written as it was written and could only be done by a team that had done so before. The third thing, regarding professors, professors, specifically my wife works at school they have been given the opportunity to apply for vaccination at the beginning of April of this year, the ministers were able to register for vaccination in early April.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50128	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50129	So this is how I'm gonna fix you again, there's been no new contest to call this platform. They received the job in the context of adaptive maintenance, therefore new functionality based on the requirements of the epidemiological profession of the company that has a public tender received a contract on adaptive maintenance. Therefore, there was no public additional tender for making these functionality, it is the only right and logical option. So you can't call a tender for something whose functionality you have. You have two systems, CESIH and vaccination, both already exist.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50130	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure esteemed representative Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50131	Your Honor, Vice President. Art. In 238, it is, in fact, that the minister listed things that are not true and that is, in fact, offensive. Look what the government wrote in its reply, so the government wrote in its reply that it was a public tender, it says in a document signed by Prime Minister Plenkovic and I have no reason not to trust him.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50132	This was a replica, so you get a warning too. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Vesna Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50133	Thank you. Dear Minister Berosch. When you talked about the need for vaccination around certain professions, you said that you invited everyone to express their needs for vaccination, and wouldn't it be logical that you in the ministry as a minister and your employees analyzed the epidemiological needs of individual professions and then said, first we would vaccinate professors or we would vaccinate first, I don't know tourist workers or I don't know health workers, normally that they were first vaccinated, not that you called on certain professions to show their needs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50134	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50135	Thank you, Madam Parliamentarian. It was just as you said, that the epidemiological profession of HZJZ has made a mini-action vaccination plan on the resolutes, and each portfolio has been tasked in the context of its institutions to carry out recording and showing interest in vaccination, therefore exactly as you said. Census and priorityization was made by HZJZ, and resolutions were given the task of gathering interest because if it had been done by the ministry or the HZJZ would have lasted ten times longer, this is how each portfolio expressed interest in the vaccination of its employees.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50136	The next replica is the distinguished representative Marina Opačak Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50137	Thank you. Dear Minister. We know that the Civil Protection Staff has made a decision to enter Croatia i.e. on crossing the border of Croatians from third countries on the day of the local elections without any epidemiological measures, I believe that they have consulted together with the profession on this occasion or that they have received your blessing. I ask you to give an answer to the Croatian citizens, where the crown disappeared on the day of the elections when it was possible to cross the border without testing on the crown and without self-insulation. You are obliged to give this answer to Croatian citizens because this move is explained as an unsustainable reason from the point of view of the Minister of Health and Doctors who are constantly telling us about the threat and the epidemiological measures. What's that for you unsustainable? For me, it's parents who can't see their children across the border because they can't finance the testing, for me they're children who can't adequately take care of their parents or take away their food and personal supplies because they have to pay for the testing. The unsustainable reasons are concern about the old and powerless, and if you continue to feel that such an extraordinary decision on 16 and 30 May has no health consequences, be along with me an advocate that the conditions of crossing the border are equally equal whether it is election day or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50138	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50139	Dear Madam Parliamentarian. I would say that every decision of headquarters is based on the opinion of the epidemiological profession, but also on some other circumstances. The right to vote is a personal democratic right. If there's no worsening of the epidemiological risk because it's a short-term visit, I don't think there's any problem. But you can be sure that when making that decision, the profession that gave its positive opinion has also been consulted. And as we can see, as we have seen after earlier and all similar choices, some more precise deterioration of the clinical picture and the epidemiological situation has not been found.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50140	The next replica, distinguished representative Daniel Spajic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50141	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister. You say you don't know who turned you in at all, you look at your colleagues from the SDP, I believe you don't know because at the Ministry of Justice, otherwise as I call a big Croatian denomination, you're sitting on your friends and you know you won't be missing hair from your head because of everything you've done, so you don't have to know. My name is Daniel Spajic and I'm a member of the Homeland Movement. However, my question is this, if everything is transparent in the ministry as you say, why did you cancel both tenders? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50142	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50143	Thank you for that question, and I thank you again for applying me, and it is important that institutions do their jobs because there were no benefits, there was no setting up a public tender. And when it comes to canceling one, it means not two but one public procurement process, one public procurement process, I'm going to tell you that an internal check was set up before all these inscriptions and before all these events that the bidder was in a possible conflict of interest. We didn't want to let that happen and the tender for public procurement was annulled so that we wouldn't come into a potential conflict... before the press reports, before any media events. ... I'm sorry, so what are you saying is that it's not true of what I said? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Excuse me, I can't hear you. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50144	Please don't communicate. The next replica is the esteemed representative Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50145	Minister Beros today's debate shows you as a minister unable to solve health problems, and here's another problem you haven't touched. So the children's hospital of Srebrenica was until the shift of Bora Nogala hospital, which was known for its excellence. You have done absolutely nothing to protect a project worth EUR 60 million which is being thrown around by different stakeholders who are obstructing the project today. I don't understand why you allowed illegal competitions, the first where a doctor is employed without clinical experience, and the second time a doctor without a license, and the second time a radiologist also has no clinical experience, which directly damages the interests of children and patients. You have not carried out any administrative supervision, and neither has your ministry's inspection supervision of the work of this institution, which, following the shift of the Battle of Nogala, has lost millions of others, previously done extremely successfully. If he's doing anything else, this question deserves your shift.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50146	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50147	Your Honor, ma'am. MPs, you show basic ignorance when it comes to the health system. The founder, the owner, the one who runs the health policy of the hospital in Srebrenica is the City of Zagreb. So, as minister, I have no authority to do anything but send a health inspection, which I did. When it comes to resolving directors and selecting new ones, when it comes to tendering for employment, it is all in the hands of the board of directors whose sole member is the ministry, so that I could not do more in that case.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50148	Next replica, here's a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50149	He's been injured. 238, the minister demeans and insults me as a representative. So, I think you as a minister, too, unless you know your job as a whole, you should know that you can carry out administrative supervision. And if you listened very carefully to what I said in the replica, I warned you just about it. It's a hospital that after Bora Nogala's shift, there's a pile of losses in hundreds of millions of kunas that didn't exist before.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50150	He has his founder and owner.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50151	Don't say it's not your jurisdiction and your jurisdiction and your responsibility. And as for who owns it and who appoints board members, that, that's now on to the new city government to correct the injustices, and it's up to you as a minister to take care of... [[Intruder: Time, time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50152	And you get a warning because this wasn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure, it was your replica, and the replica has a distinguished representative, Danica Baricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50153	... [[Speaker not enabled]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50154	Please turn off the microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50155	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Ministers Willi Beroš, here you are accused of being a covid minister, and please can you once again introduce us here, us and the Croatian public, to do everything for the health system except defend the safety of citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50156	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50157	I thank you for that question. Well, we've solved a lot of current problems. Here's one of the requirements on which my shift was based and the recall is that I am building up health problems. So I started creating them in the first month of 2020, and they were never present before. And then the covid came and, as we said, I believe well. However, we also found the strength to make other steps. You know for a fact that in this honorable home, the National Plan against Cancer has been adopted, you know, and we have already communicated that after a long time it has been re-launched the work on the National Strategy for Mental Health. We have solved, as I have already said here today, the problems of overtime, in the meantime we have solved with the Ministry of Finance, and this rebalancing will solve an additional issue of overtime, so for all those lags, and not just in the future, we have started working on the Law on equal status of doctors. I can't count all the steps. With the regular work being done, which is that we recently transplanted our lungs to the Republic of Croatia for the first time and ran some others. [[Intruder: Time, time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50158	The club of representatives of Croatian sovereigns is the next and respected representative of Hrvoja Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50159	So, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here's the minister who's come to our senses, so let's, let's, uh, let's just, uh, let's just let him have a little bit of life in him. In Croatian politics there are many topics, there are topics that are current. One of the most powerful is the coronary crisis, the covid crisis. And you can see that today. So, the topic of trust, Minister Beros, is actually about talking about the crown, about the coronary virus, about vaccination, about covid passports, about respirators, about protective equipment, which is legitimate, and it's okay to talk about it because it's an actual topic. It's modern, people don't care. They have some topics that aren't that popular, and when you place them in public space, you don't get too much sympathy because society polarizes around them. And we often hear today whether it came from the left, right or center, so let's not talk about it, we're in 2021, that topic, let's let it go. Let's just get in the wording, let's not really discuss everything. And there is one topic that is extremely related to Minister Berosa's portfolio, and it is not spoken of today, and we Croatian sovereigns are so brave, regardless of what is not pragmatic, we point out. And it's about protecting lives. If Minister Beros has reason to resign or not to give him confidence in the further term of office, then this is the reason why Minister Beros or his portfolio, his ministry does not respect the constitutional court's decision. For those who do not know, the constitutional court is, so the Supreme Court is the most judicial body in Croatia and its decisions simply must be respected, they must. However, there are no criminal provisions, there are no provisions that if someone does not respect that decision, he loses his right to the ministerial chair. He simply does so to no one, and it is a decision from 21.02.2017, where the Constitutional Court ordered us to give the Croatian Parliament a new law to regulate abortion within two years. We Croatian sovereigns say the Life Protection Act. A working group was formed at the time of Minister Kujundzic. Here I am asking you a question now, and I ask you, I call you not to be a proposing, but as a resolute minister, use your right to come for this pay phone and say here to me, to Croatian sovereigns and to the entire Croatian people what this working group has done, whether it is meeting or whether there is any draft law in the process, if anything is made. Here's what I'm really interested in, given that today in 2021, or two years and three months, four months is actually late with the passing of that law and no one. So, that may be my most important argument for your shift, the most important argument of disrespect for the Constitutional Court's decisions. And now if you've dealt well with the corona crisis you'll say it is, I'll say you haven't. Most opposition colleagues will say you didn't. Did you need to resign when your colleague was vaccinated across the line I don't think you did, but you should have been a little more resolute and punish your colleague from the health system. Did you have the vaccine in time? You didn't have it on time, but you did iron it a little later. Are we 15 in the world by the number of dead? We did, and that's not good, but it's all something at the level of the category can be forgiven, so someone's 14 and 12 and the first worst. But ignoring the Constitutional Court's decisions not for two days, not for two years, but for four years. Four years and something else is inadmissible. I know that this subject is very delicate, delicate, above all, for your client. It's not for the left. It's also delicate for the center, it's delicate for both the Homeland Movement and the MOST that never did, so clearly defined. But no matter what is delicate, come on be brave, come out with this subject, not only be brave but do what you need by law enforcement. Do it, fix that law. I do not live in the delusion that you will pass that law that should be by nature, by science and all, but make a little better law just so that little Rado Boric gets on your nerves. But you won't do it, I know it. Or maybe you will. If you will, here you will have my support for that law, for that law I stress. Now, dare you, I challenge you, although given everything I've seen from you, or from your government, I deeply doubt it, but here I am giving you one more chance at this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50160	The next debate is the Club of Representatives of HSS and HSU, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50161	Dear Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary with Associates. Watch what we do in the Croatian Parliament today is the right to oppose and in this situation there is no sentimentality if we want democracy. Everyone in the public and here I hear that story in the towers, and what we're going to do is raise the question of trust to a certain minister, Prime Minister. The parliamentary majority has more votes. We never get over 50, 55. Does it all make sense together? Well, it makes sense. Why does it make sense? Because from the moment the idea was born to initiate the procedure, so to initiate this procedure, or a proposal to raise the issue of trust, the minister began to do things. Some things aren't the same anymore. We've got a time-out of almost 50 days. A lot can happen in 50 days at this time. I repeat the question again, or the proposal to launch a trust issue is not the execution of ministers. It's always someone else's responsibility, you've convinced yourself many times who executed the ministers, even if it was resignations in their terms. So we don't do that. We're actuating time-out problems. As a member of the Committee on Legislative and Social Policy, I am concerned about the state of health and all aspects. The cleavage problem is slowly resolved after these 50 days. The debt problem has been delayed, and we're going to have to solve it with budget rebalance. So it's not solved, it's just delayed and it'll get rid of by rebalance. So, the problem in health care exists from all aspects – funding, organisations, relationships with patients personnel policy, waiting lists and many, many, many, many points, many, many questions, many unresolved problems. Now, in order not to make a mistake, let's remind ourselves which one was the trigger that the opposition in the Croatian Parliament started with a proposal to raise trust issues for Mr. Willia Beros, Minister of Health. The first argument is the growing debt in health care which he could not resolve as either a deputy, nor as a minister. There is no plan, no reform, no organisation of the hospital system, no financial experts who present to the public how this will be resolved. Neither public procurement nor the overtime of employees are resolved. Total debt 31 January 2021 5.2 billion, 4.1 billion hospital system plus 1.1 billion HZZO debt to major drugstores. Long cut, bought time can be said so by the end of 2021. Debt to doctors for overtime billions of kuna paid 12% in damages. Vaccination system failure 50 days ago. I'm not talking right now. When we were doing this initiative, by these initiatives if it were to be the execution of the minister should be discussed within 48 hours. But no, this is a matter of trust. The Rules of Procedure say it must be discussed within 30 days. It is a very long period of 30 days for some things that everyone sees not only opposition, but also for those who protect today, the minister is given in some way to fix or at least patch up. So, the breakdown of the vaccination system, the digital platform to the friend paid 4 million kuna, didn't work. Three percent of the people were not invited through that platform. The entire campaign was also followed by a lack of vaccines, unequal distribution and a bad organisation. And forgive me if anyone says the platform then it's united all for all segments. I'm not interested in whether the kick engine or the gearbox in that car is called a platform, but I'm interested in the overall functionality of the entire system. Corrupt public procurement, therefore, is a friend of whom it is during 2018. Payed 3.5 million kuna, 2019. 6.4 million kuna, at the end of the year, another 5 and a half million kuna were agreed with a set of tenders, and it is with consultants of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute. Media Val has received 1.1 million kunas for the maintenance of Coronavirus.hr sites without competition. Precarus, owned by a minister of friends, received nearly 600,000 kuna without competition, as all amounts were below 200,000. The Navada decoration company received an IT job worth 1.6 million kuna. A year ago, they had an income of 1,000 kuna. The American MSAN is a joke towards the Croatian dream. Navada got the job because the competition that AENONA consulting owned by former Minister Neven Ljubicic, who was a member of the Committee, was cancelled and participated in the design of the competition he called himself. So these are all the arguments that are written in the request and that no one has ever refuted except by mouth. There are no contradictory arguments, there is no negation. The public violation of Mr. Minister, the public violation of the measures against the crown prescribed by you and the members of the government yourself prescribed one measure, and at funerals, weddings, celebrations, you acted differently. It's a truth that no one can dispute. I'm not saying anything about your relationship with all of this, but I do know that, for example, in the Czech Republic, Roman Primula was a minister only a month when he had to leave because he was seen leaving the restaurant, although he himself signed a ban on restaurant work. Also, his successor, Peter Aremberger, resigned because of tax card irregularities after he was found renting his own property to the University Hospital. In Poland, Minister Lukas Sumovski resigned after it was found that his brother's company had received millions of contracts. In addition, the equipment they obtained was unusable. He's believed to have profited in the crisis, but he's also threatened patients. A little exotic, Jordan Health Minister Natir Obeidat is away from work after six patients died due to an hour-long oxygen loss at the hospital. It's a little exotic, but it's the attitude of others to health problems. What bothers me very much as a member of the board, if the Ministry of Defence is pro-pulsory for the development of the Croatian economy, why the Ministry of Health, which spends huge money, is not pro-pulsible for the development of the Croatian pharmaceutical industry, the drug industry, the medical equipment industry. My men, we import water for injections. We're importing water for injections. I'm asking you, what are we doing? The problem is from another aspect. Look, the problem is what it is because the dedicated money that comes to HZZO is being subdimensed, so that's where the money comes from only contributions. There are high expectations of all of them in the system of budgets and finance ministers, which favours the availability of systems and the absence of clear spending criteria, as well as the uncontrollable growth of individual costs. As long as someone does not set the limits that basic health insurance covers and the limit in which the spending of health money is to be kept has no reform. This is a responsibility to workers who pay contributions and that is a responsibility to all citizens because part of the lack of funds is compensated from the budget at the expense of VAT. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50162	The next debate is the Association of MPs of the Homeland Movement, distinguished representative Daniel Spajic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50163	Ladies and gentlemen, in two days' time, I would exactly 6 months' time, as the Homeland Movement for the Assembly Speaker explained in detail that a happy group of various IT companies and consultants led by Vinko Kujundzic and his company Kuspis, at the Ministry of Health, devased public money and approved funds from EU funds. We have described the case of how the preparation and supervision of the long-awaited digitalisation project of the Croatian health system was obtained by former Sanader Minister Ljubicic as a key expert in monitoring the project and the most famous florist of our IT industry as an expert in project specification. No matter what the public and various services have heard the description of these shops, they are arrogantly 12. 1. In 2021, they awarded contracts to these companies that do not have the resources or the necessary calling for the specificization and control of these digital projects. 40 days after my speech in the Council of Ministers, congratulations. After the media finally started writing intensively about this case, the minister first cancelled the contract to Sanader's minister, and several weeks later, our most famous IT florist was left without a contract. On the portal of the National Newspaper, the contract was annulled six minutes after midnight. I'm guessing the order from the party headquarters came to have the contract annulled immediately because of the growing public interest in these criminal acts? So it's not true that it was annulled before the public inscriptions how you responded to me in the replica. However, the cancellation of these contracts cannot possibly be an amnesty for the minister. However, these cancellations are direct evidence that public procurement tenders have not been carried out in accordance with the laws. A huge damage has been done to the Croatian budget, which is measured by billions of kunas how much our health system is doing minus, and for years the ministry has been unable to use approved funds, digitise the system, transparently establish where billions of girls and finally introduce order into the Ministry of Health. Now, a multi-year difficulty with this project can mean only one thing, the ruling coalition obviously doesn't care to introduce transparency and turn on light in a system that spends more than 30 billion kuna a year. How did the Prime Minister deal with all this? First, the completely inappropriate seriousness of the situation asked Minister Beros and Minister Zdravko Maric to scratch the health costs a little bit because, as reportedly, there may be unnecessary costs there. After the affair leaked to the media and an initiative was launched for the change, the prime minister also withdrew what may have been the corruption affair at the health ministry called ordinary media inscriptions. It is clear that the prime minister will defend Minister Beros with all means for some time, although he would prefer to throw him into... a basket where so far, without judicial epilogues, have ended up with various Kusevici, Žalci, Marici, Tolusici and many other ministers. We are undoubtedly in favour of the replacement of Minister Beroš because he has done damage to the Croatian health system by his actions and failures. These corruption activities are particularly difficult because they were made at the time of the Covid-19 pandemic, while many oncological and other patients are deprived of adequate care, while thousands of our doctors and nurses work in our systems for inappropriate small wages and their health and their lives. However, we insist on two more things. First of all, it must not happen as many times as it has been, but as far as it is concerned, the works of Minister Beros and his team from the ministry must be obtained by a judicial epilogue. It can't happen again. It can't happen again. It can't happen again. By ruling the HDZ and SDSS clan, billions of taxpayers are relieving these damages from corrupt operations, and in return, they have three handles from the IDS in reserve if necessary if someone in the ruling coalition gets a conscience. Let's say a transparent Mr. Hrebak or perhaps a coalition partner, Milorad Pupovac. Secondly, it must also not happen again as countless times so far to move one minister, and the corrupt layer below the minister continues... the same, or worse with some new minister. [[You don't understand.]] In most ministries in the Republic of Croatia, and especially in the Ministry of Health, a thorough anti-corruption deratiation is needed. Minister Beroš I think your job is not to walk around with your piar service and paint yourself as you vaccinate citizens of the Republic of Croatia in cities, because you are not a model and believe me, you do not belong to that category. I don't belong either, but neither do you. So your job is to stop the leak of billions from the health system and make the health system function normally. The many billions that Minister Maric has transferred to you because you are constantly at a loss, you better invest in a child's allowance. Some 5 billion kunas a year should be in our budget for every child in the Republic of Croatia to have 100 euros a month, to be the right of every child, not the social category. This is one situation where it may have stopped young families from leaving the Republic of Croatia for a start. That would be a real measure, and what we're going through at the Department of Health is like throwing rocks into a well deep 100 meters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50164	The next debate is the SDP Representatives' Club, the distinguished representative Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50165	Thank you very much, Vice-President HS, the Honorable Secretary of State, the minister who hopefully only went out for a short while, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I think we will agree that the basis of a quality health system are healthcare providers or healthcare professionals, and at the centre of the accessible and regulated system as we wish the patient is satisfied. I'm over 20. in the Croatian Health System, I think the minister and secretary of state is here somewhere or a few years more and I think we know his advantages and flaws well. Advantage is precisely worth health and health care professionals who, with their skills, stand side by side with a number of experts around the world. We carry a particularly great burden on our backs now at this time of the pandemic when you give maximum energy and strength and sacrifice to patients. What are the flaws, what are the problems? There's a bunch of them, especially the expressions in this pandemic. They haven't since yesterday, and they haven't been created by this minister now. But they don't get rid of each other, or at least they don't get rid of each other fast enough, and there's no time to wait. The minister was a co-worker of former Minister Kujundzic, now here since the first month of last year and he has his own team headed by him, having his own abilities, enthusiasm. Here's the minister back, so as a colleague, I believe you've approached this honorable minister's business with great responsibility, with some desire to run the system in advance. But I ask you, do you really have that reform plan that you mentioned, did the prime minister stop you from doing that, will we finally see it? Here are the local choices that have passed, so you have to explain to us what the problem is, our right is, it is our duty to ask questions and to ask answers to questions and that is, among other things, the purpose of this debate today. We all keep saying that health care is an extra-party issue and that consensus is needed, so we agreed at that meeting of the Health Committee, there were Minister Beros and Minister Maric. The session was called by the signatures of our opposition MPs, not the only one. So we really care about implementing this reform and improving the health system. We discussed and offered help, we offered solutions, but everything proposed by the opposition turned out not to be accepted, not even recommendations and conclusions of the debate on that committee. We have seen that there is no programme of recovery and complete health reform, we have not seen a plan to settle accumulated debt in health care, a plan to pay off debts to wholesales after 2021, restrictions to health institutions are unequal and unrealistic, the state of money delivers to hospitals according to some of its criteria, founders of general and county hospitals invest, but also personnel by their own criteria. How long will we wait for the financial stabilisation of the system? There are numerous organisational and personnel problems. Imbalanced is the distribution of workers by healthcare institutions, the lack of both doctors and nurses and maids, nurses, and the inability to hire remains the problem. Furthermore, we have a wide range of medicines available on the list, we have modern diagnostic devices in a number of health institutions, but we also have a number of health institutions where you still don't have BIS, so that hospital information system, that needs to be solved. We still don't have a systematic follow-up of treatment outcomes, especially expensive medicines, and we've witnessed, we haven't invented it, so this was seen on the ground that a number of patients, including healthcare professionals in different hospitals, complained that they couldn't get the necessary oncology medications, hepatitis therapy, antibiotics were missing, corticosteroids, etc., who's to blame, just directors? In certain environments patients do not have a weekend medical and medical care available, where is the network of available health institutions and services? Although the national headquarters really had all our attention at first, all of our support, but for some time now there has been no complete trust in the citizens or the profession, because there has been contrivement with recommendations and there is no way to deprive itself of the political omen. The profession told you that the health system was about to collapse, so we didn't make it up. We don't sanction the work of headquarters, governments and your ministers with associates. But now almost 15 months after there have been many mistakes in work, wrong decisions, double standards, delays in decisions, individual messaging, muttering, intransparentity, after not listening to the advice of professions, scientists, and opposition many times, it is time for us to discuss this and account. We've talked multiple times about problems, I've already said and we've offered solutions. Why do we have to talk about some things 10 times from the opposition to at least hear something? You will certainly maintain your position at the recent vote, now whether it will be temporary or be for a long time, it will be decided by the prime minister. When he decides to get rid of you, he'll get rid of you. On the one hand, it's nice to have you back in the doctor's corner for a short while, but you still have the minister's job to do, and we say here again and again, there are problems, and you have to deal with them urgently. So today is an opportunity for you to explain to all of us whether it is the culprit for not implementing the necessary reforms and past mistakes of the Prime Minister or you? At least admit where everything went wrong, don't say everything was beautiful and wonderful. We're all learning together, especially you from the ministry on your own faults. You're a conductor in the system and you can't exactly transfer everything as a minister so as a liability to the directors of the facility. As the SDP Representatives' Club, we have launched a proposal to raise the issue of trust to Minister Beros, I repeat, there are many problems, we are looking for answers to questions and we hope that you will at least appreciate some of this so that there will be no further mistakes. I will still report on several occasions and present concrete things that we have already spoken to these constituencies, as we have spoken on the board, we have offered solutions, but it has not yet started quickly enough. When we ask a question and we question that there have been corrupt public procurement, then of course it's up to you to answer it, not to be angry about it. When we talk about health debts, health debts exist and there needs to be a plan to settle these debts. Furthermore, the issue of united public procurement has also not been resolved. The work of health care professionals is underrated, you know the problems of HZZO values us. Different service prices per health institution are different. There was a problem with vaccination we'll talk about the same thing, admit it, but here's something improved, but there's room for improvement. I'll also talk about issues in primary health care. I'll talk about inequality in what will be invested through the National Recovery Plan. I'll tell you more about health interns and that proposal we're asking to finally get rid of, about the Covid supplements, then the question that I've been saying from this pay phone, I've also asked a representative question, a concrete solution for pregnant women, or for escorts at birth. The matter of overtime, you said that, of course, I am aware that you solved something in April last year, but the issue of overtime was not resolved. You think we're so happy to work overtime, kill ourselves on duty, so the labour law issue should also be solved. There is also a question of the representative nature of the doctor, and we also had a session of the Health Committee where we spoke and the position of nurses, and I will also say something about it. You are familiar with the dissatisfaction of the driver of the sanity where there are also differences in coefficients. So there's still a lot of problems, we're here for help, accept what we're offering you as some kind of solution, and all of what we're going to ask today is questions, doubts about transparency, etc., it's up to you to answer, so we'll see how things go next. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50166	The next debate is on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS, the distinguished representative of Anka Mrak Taritaš.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50167	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, colleagues and colleagues, we have spoken many times in this assembly session, and of course in the past about the fact that some HDZ minister is not doing his job well or that the entire government, headed by the prime minister, is not doing its job well. The arguments were made, examples were given, but the majority of parliament decided in the end that the minister or minister could stay. That's understandable because most of them, and if the minister accidentally fell after a debate like this, it would mean that the government no longer has a majority and that most of them became the ones who asked for a shift. The chair of the meeting is often able to explain to MPs how the famous Article 238 is. The Rules of Procedure do not deal with the question of truth and that speaking the truth or the truth is not something that can be solved by calling for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Well, that same rule applies to the question of the majority or minorities in the Croatian Parliament. Just because you have 76 hands, and someone else 75 in no way means 76 hands telling the truth, and 75 hands telling the truth. The only truth that can be drawn from the number of votes in the assembly is only who has the majority at that time. Minister Beroš and his work have already been discussed in the assembly and the fact that he received most of his hands in the vote does not mean that he is a good minister and works well. In these discussions, Prime Minister Plenkovic often called for HDZ to win elections and for the rest of us to have something to talk about. Just because someone won the election at some point also doesn't mean they're good or they're doing good. For example, the late mayor of the City of Zagreb won elections so today try to find me a man who would say that he worked well, including those who voted for him or laughed at his jokes most loudly. One of the situations when we had a serious and long discussion about health care and the minister was the discussion about the impetuousness of the health system on the autumn or winter wave of the crown. The debate was in December last year and lasted until early morning. And then we all said the job just wasn't done right. Of course, no one could prepare on the crown in the early spring of last year when it began, but the autumn and winter had already been known and much could have been complicated, but if anyone still remembers our minister in the fall and winter, it was like a winter service that surprised the snow in the middle of winter. Just to remind you all briefly what we thought at the time, and we still consider the government's main failures towards the health system at that time. Generally unpreparedness was the first and greatest complaint. Even though for months we knew what was coming for us, everything was happening in a place of song, unprepared, and uncoordinated manner. Management was extremely bad. Another question was why of all the hospitals in the city was available just as KB Dubrava as the most modern or one of the most modern hospitals had to be completely converted into a covid hospital. To date, we have not received any reasonable explanation or assessment of the effects on the people who depend on the hospital, nor an assessment of the impact of such a decision on the hospital itself and its future. The third objection is the availability of health care to all those who do not have a crown. We argued then, and we are also saying today, and in the meantime, the attorney general for 2020 claimed it. that the dramatically reduced number of orders to first specialist or control checks. I emphasized the first specialist because what that actually means, we'll see only in the past tense. How many people didn't get the right diagnosis at the right time, and how many people didn't get the right therapy on time. Of course, the ruling majority here in the Parliament blessed and declared the job well done, but the reality somehow had no intention of looking back on it, so she slapped us with numbers of the sick and the dead of the covids who had been among the worst countries in the EU for a long time, where we are due to HDZ and otherwise. But I'm going to say very openly, the question that is now being asked isn't just how many people have moved out because of HDZ's bad work, it's now a question that is being asked and how many have died. So, I think by then, the only thing Minister Beros should have done was resign, but he didn't. And then great work went on, it was supposed to organize the vaccination, and there was Minister Berosch shining again in full glory. It may have been possible for the Croatian public to make it very difficult to do so, but Minister Beros has shown himself to be a pure-blooded HDZ. He gave the rapid vaccination platform to work on his home friend who made it on a free program and in this extremely bad and sees wonders all together to charge five million kunas and what better to expect from it and of course he will get votes from his party colleagues in the Assembly, except that the job is determined disastrously bad over him hanging suspicions of corruption and guessing. So it's all the same as always. Otherwise, it is interesting with this vaccination platform that the surprise factor has also played an important role due to the unpreparedness of the platform has fallen apart because there was probably not enough time in more than a year to predict that vaccination will begin at one point and that we need an organization. Now, that was really a surprise why work was supposed to be done overnight badly and corruptly. And then, in the shadow below the crown, Minister Beros, along with his head, Plenkovic, afforded the Croatian public another show that was not pleasant to watch or listen to. Exploding debts towards wholesale drugs, billions of debts for medicines, debt that grows in several million amounts every day is a complete shame that every few witnesses to the bickering and stretching of governments and companies that deliver drugs to Croatian hospitals. If in some systems of the state we should be able to have at least a minimum of trust then it's health care. Instead, directors of companies whose government is in debt to billions are forced on TV screens to threaten to suspend medicines to hospitals in a desperate attempt to extract at least a small part of the money they owe them. So as it seems to you all together, what an impression it makes of all those in need of health care, who need hospitals and medications, as if we're not sick of stress and fear, but then we still have to follow the eternal game of whether the hospitals are going to be left without what they're supposed to do. The whole situation in the health care system is being poisoned, the minister is in conflict with doctors who are suing the state, with associations and organisations representing doctors and medical staff, with suppliers, with everyone. Not of course, we are not blind all the problems in Croatian health came with Minister Beros, but honestly they are with the HDZ party that has been staring at all levels since 1990, but what is the problem of Minister Beros is that there is not one question that has managed to do anything but make the situation worse. It is clear that the majority of Parliament will also vote out their reality and their truth in this case, but after everything that is listed today, and what will be said is that we are some decent country that has a decent government, Minister Beros would resign himself, not create mental locks on the fact that he is the captain of a ship that will not leave the helm in crisis. Minister Beroche, the ship of our health is sinking, one of the reasons why it sinks is that you are at his helm. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50168	On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative Andreja Marić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50169	Thank you very much. Here are the respected ministers and state secretaries, colleagues and colleagues. As I have said many times, I will answer with concrete questions, concrete issues, which I ask you to deal with as soon as possible. You know that at the end of last year, I was personally involved, after medical trainees approached me, or young health care professionals who were just waiting for a traineeship, they came to me for help in October, and here was your decision that, unlike 2020, when 170 seats for 2021 were approved, there were 2,000 places, and it really seemed like a good way to allow all trainees to start their training as soon as possible. But what are the problems? I also asked you a written parliamentary question. Now here we are talking orally, so I'm saying I'm asking you to fix this problem as soon as possible. The problem is that the quotas that are approved don't fit the real needs, so I'm asking you now. Has the Ministry of Health issued a call for proposals and expressed needs to all healthcare institutions that can hire trainees and have all the institutions responded to your call? Is the plan approved for the admission of trainees with an exact number and level of education followed by all proposals from health institutions? Is it corrected and by what criteria is it corrected? According to the information available, the trainee’s reception plan is in line with the real needs of the institutions or the number of persons awaiting the traineeship. Here's a concrete example. The plan provides for a total of 675 seats for nurses, and on 28 February 2021, they were unemployed in the registration of the Croatian Employment Institute 55. 31 middle and 24 upper nurses, while there are too few places for other professions, for example on February 28th, there are 145 physiotherapists, 298 senior therapists, etc. for which there is an increased demand for traineeships, and there is not enough room in the now approved quotas. Do you have feedback from all health institutions whether the approved trainee's plan corresponds to these real needs, which can be seen according to the number of applications to the designated individual traineeship and whether they have requested the resuscitation of the quotas and did you then grant the resuscitation of the quotas to all those who have requested? Now some institutions may not even know that they can address you and ask for a re-use of those quotas, so I invite you to send a letter to all health institutions so that I can request a change of that plan to the trainee. And also the question that the trainees have asked you is the suspension of a health care traineeship that has yet to carry out a traineeship? That's the first thing I'm asking you to do. Another thing I've already talked about with this assembly speaker has also been waiting for you since May 18th, and this is an escort at birth, therefore, to pregnant women in health care institutions. We are now witnessing that there is no uniform practice in health institutions, slowly, what I asked you and what I ask you to and now to bring it to you, especially now that the pandemic is calming down when the epidemiological situation is better to bring a unique attitude at the level of all health institutions to define a birth date during this now calming pandemic with the consultation of the profession. So gynecologists, epidemiologists and infectologists bring unique instructions that need equipment, which need tests, why one hospital can allow for months it hasn't been infected, another 15 km adjacent does not allow. Bring some unique attitudes, please. Here we all hope and boast that the pandemic is calming down, and then it would be good if our pregnant women had some kind of answer, at least because they were talking to you. They spoke to me, too. I'm a lawyer here, and I'm still worried about our pregnant women. So I'm asking you to bring some unique attitudes in that sense, because I'm saying unequal practice. You can't all go to the principals... Okay. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50170	Here's a replica. Dear Vice President Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50171	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues since the minister can't answer you, but I think you know that the question was more rhetorically raised. But I'll try to answer you for him. You know very well that the conditions in our hospitals are very different. A similar story is about whether or not they can be mothers with little children. Of course we'd all like mothers to be with little kids when they're in pediatric wards. But in some hospitals, we still haven't been able to rebuild them, or upgrade them, etc. That's physically impossible. It's the same with this presence of parents during their fathers' birth. So somewhere it's simply physically impossible to organize it so that, by sticking to all the epidemiological monks, it could do it. And I think your question was simply rhetorical and political, and you actually know that it's because they're just not the same opportunities in all the hospitals.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50172	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50173	Thank you very much. You didn't listen to my debate on behalf of the club. I said I'd be objective and honest, and that's how I'm gonna answer you now. I am not asking questions rhetorically or politically, but justified on the basis of what the situation is, what my knowledge, my colleagues, the citizens who speak to us, etc. So, all I agree with is part of what you said. Of course they're not the same conditions and of course there was an earthquake, and old buildings, etc. But if, for example, after I specifically talked about this issue on free speech, today, let's say that Varazdin Hospital didn't allow it, it's already allowed tomorrow. Well, it's the same terms. It's the same hospital, right? So I'm talking about it, I'm not calling you for the situation a month ago, two, three. I'm talking now that we're calming down the epidemiological situation to level the recommendations not to be in some hospital we need a test in another we don't need, we need tomorrow we don't need the same hospital is at stake. Do we agree? So one more thing, answer when your citizens address the Ministry. So, they came to me miserable because no one's answering them.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50174	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50175	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50176	The next debate is on behalf of Green-left bloc advocate Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50177	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, you've already heard a series of arguments for which we've actually launched this procedure, and I'm going to talk of course about those who are most interested in us. So in December of last year, the government adopted a plan for introducing, implementing and monitoring vaccinations against Covida-19, I think it was in December last year. The implementation of the guidelines set out in this document is responsible for you, i.e. the Ministry of Health, HZZ, HZZ and MUP. In order to implement these specific guidelines, you yourself wrote that a centralised information system should be introduced for the application and check-out of persons who wish to be vaccinated and received by order drawn in that plan. And when it started to realize that measure, that's when the vaccination case started. However, the system should be set up to meet the requirement of prioritising vulnerable groups, but the system that we have received has not worked. The vaccines were simply not followed by the logic of the plan for the introduction, implementation and monitoring of vaccinations, i.e. which groups of age go first or vulnerable groups due to some other health factors. I'm going to remind you now which groups should have been given priority vaccinations and that's exactly what it says in that plan. So, first home users for the elderly, employees of service providers and accommodation for older and powerless and healthcare workers. They're all one group that was actually supposed to go parallel at the same time as the most endangered group and that's how it went. After that, persons between 80 and more, between 75 and 79, persons between 70 and 74, persons between 65 and 69 and adults at a high risk less than 65 years of age. So this document came about a little less than 5 months ago, now we can evaluate how it's being implemented. So we can't say that this system of priorities is respected in the vaccine. I'll tell you my example, I'm inoculating the first dose about 3-4 weeks ago, my neighbor from nearly 80 years old hasn't even been invited yet. She has been reported with her general practice doctor since the first month, so from the beginning when vaccination was announced, she has not been invited yet. And not only does she, so I personally know a large number of people who belong to these groups who have not yet been vaccinated with the first dose, who have also been given hope-filled applications among other things by looking for some of their younger digitally written relatives to report them to the vaccine, have applied and have not been invited there. You said yourself today we had four reporting systems and regulation of vaccination issues. That's the problem. We had a system that, where we applied to doctors of general practice, to our doctors, that's what I was doing. We applied to the vaccine, right, you registered employees in hospitals etc., you registered employees in nursing homes, they were these systems. What's the problem and you can't deny that the system of the vaccine wasn't connected in any way to the system of recording with the doctor of general practice. How was it when doctors, no doctor of general practice knew neither the base nor the insight into that base. [[Intruder: It was.]] And I can tell you this on my example, I wouldn't tell you that, I'm not telling you on purpose, I'm telling you to know what's going on in the system. The doctors didn't have that. Let's move on, so first groups aren't our vaccinations in order. The second regional distribution of vaccines was also not adequate and today what we have is a situation that we have great differences in the separation between, for example, Zagreb and some other parts, some other parts of Croatia. The notor vaccines are therefore not made, it is not made as part of the e-vac and e-Cessdli system, so it was not immediately integrated and you are responsible for it, but you are indeed responsible because you have not told the truth about how, who is responsible for making that platform. First of all, you said that Ericsson Nikola Tesla, IN2 and Cuspis were working on the platform. I asked Ericsson Nikola Tesla, and they said they had nothing to do with it and they didn't work on it. So that's what they are, to show you you have on the pages of the assembly. You know, when you answer the press, everything is on the Ministry of Health's pages, look at the answer on the council's pages on parliamentary issues. You can have a look on your cell phone right now. So, they answered me no, we didn't do vaccines and they didn't just say that to me as an official answer to the parliamentary question but they also told the press. So that's what they said in public. What's further to me here is that you said that the components of the platform The vaccines are ordered from the item and adaptive hours within the existing contracts. Since Ericsson Nikola Tesla said they didn't have it and they didn't work the vaccine, I sent you a 5.5, so it's almost 30 days now, you haven't answered me yet. I asked you if Cuspis was contracted through a baffle purchase next door, you didn't answer my questions, so I'm asking you to give us an official answer today. How was Cuspis arranged for the vaccine? Whether it was a special procurement, whether it was an open tender, whether it was a bazaar or a part of an existing project, there was a re-application, and today, I still don't have the exact information on it, 5.5. I asked that parliamentary question you could answer it knowing that this debate would be today. So we still don't even know exactly, and we don't have confirmation of how much this platform cost, we know that many experts who were looking at the platform and the fact that it was built on wordpress that they themselves said that it couldn't cost more than a few tens of thousands of kuna, that we're not saying that some counties themselves set up such a system for 40,000 kuna. The very connection of the gentleman who owns CUSPIS, so Kojundzic and I don't even need to talk to you, I think it's the notorious facts we've already talked about here. I'll remind you of some additional vaccination fiasco. We remember those cases of inoculation at the beginning of the vaccination when we didn't have enough vaccines, when this House decided that we were really parliamentary representatives who should first be vaccinated, which was completely incomprehensible to me at the time because they weren't even these first priority groups, first, first, so healthcare workers, home users for the elderly and workers employed by the provision of accommodation services for older and powerless persons and they weren't still vaccinated, but it was very important to vaccinate us first, so that's why. Then they found themselves in the right place at the right time Linic, Boras, Luka Burilović and the team for many we probably don't even know, bringing relatives from another country to be vaccinated as needed, eating over the order, and I say today some of your plans that you are obliged to implement have not been vaccinated once. I will also remind you that you did not want to adopt our request here at the 11th month, which is that they set up a monitoring of the impact of covid-19 on other diseases, especially malignant diseases and the issue of access to health in diagnostics and the treatment of malignant diseases. So, you rejected that request, and we know that in her report for 2020, the attorney general pointed out that the problem, that she said that the largest number of complaints were precisely in the field of health and precisely in the inability to access diagnostics and treat severe diseases, and all because of covida-19 and we know that we have less diagnosed, we know that an increase in the mortality of malignancies is expected and who will answer my question. And I'm going to repeat something else that I said when we started this initiative. It's clear to me that you haven't made those decisions on your own, and it's clear to me that it's the Prime Minister who has the last word, I'm sorry he's not here to bear that responsibility with you, but you should have said for yourself what the situation is and if it's necessary to resign, not put yourself in this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50178	Following individual debates, the first respected vice president is Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50179	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. There's been a lot of talk today about health debts, and I'm going to try to clarify the subject a little bit and maybe even be painfully honest and open, some of us are going to resent it, maybe even the minister, but let's see how the difference is, we're using the right terms between income and health costs. Whether doctors and nurses may have thrown medications into the sewers, watered the lawns around the hospital, or all these were given to patients or used for their health, let’s say, at last, clearly and without the figs in their pocket. Debts were created because the economic power of Croatia is simply all these decades away from the communist system and to this day too weak for the level of health that we have. How debt will not arise if, for example, hospitals pay medicines and medical equipment at world prices, therefore the same as hospitals in London, Berlin or Vienna pay while the services that hospitals provide to patients are charged almost exclusively on the basis of a contract with HZZO which determines the prices of these services, but according to the means available to them because there is simply no more money. These prices usually cover only half or some more real costs and hospitals fall into the spiral of endless debt, and occasional resolutions only temporarily repair the state by principle hold the water while the masters leave. In doing so, we need to know that the real costs of medicines and medical equipment everywhere in the world are growing from 10% to 12% each year. This occurs because of an incredibly fast technological development that daily produces new diagnostic devices increasingly sophisticated medicines for the treatment of diseases that people were dying of yesterday. But it all costs a lot, and it costs a lot. Did any of you who spoke about health costs happen to know that the cure is specifically in my hospital for only one patient or the patient costs 3 million 600 thousand kuna a year. For another patient or patient, as many as 4 million kunas per year, this is just the cost of the medicine, not complete treatment. Comparing costs today or 10 and 20 years ago is absolutely pointless, only those who in the health system have no idea or do so on purpose for political reasons can do so. Thus, the story of health care costs has grown tremendously from earlier times. For example, 20 years ago, hospitals had radiological equipment worth only a few maybe 100 thousand marks, today these same hospitals have tens of millions of euros worth of equipment. But what do you think doctors with this equipment do, perhaps taking pictures of people on the beach as a schnell photo or doing sophisticated tests that allow the diagnosis and treatment of patients to be diagnosed as early as possible? So if you don't think all this is necessary, tell it clearly to Croatian citizens, especially patients. I don't think so. However, it should be made clear once again, health reform is really necessary and it will be made but I am sure that when the legislative proposals come before this assembly on the implementation of this reform, the opposition will either garner tears, narrate and accuse that this reduces the rights and scope of health services to Croatian citizens, or it will be tears again if health contributions are increased, which I believe will not, and narrate and accuse of suffocating entrepreneurs and increasing the pressure on the economy, etc. So, I am sure that whatever the ruling majority suggests with the intention of really implementing a health reform that I repeat is very necessary and that it becomes financially sustainable, the opposition will be against it. Remember these words of mine because when the time comes, I will remind you of them, and I would like to remember Croatian citizens, to remember and understand how the opposition only deals with floscules and politics, and in fact does not want any serious reform procedures that we really need. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50180	We have a replica, representative Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50181	This last one that you ended up with is just flossula and politics, demagogy without cover, one principled claim that the opposition is not seriously involved in its work. For example, if the opposition really does not deal seriously with its work, how is it possible that all five of my proposals that I referred to in one minute of the replica I was entitled to about the plan of resilience and recovery were included in this same plan of opposition that deals only with flossules and politics? I'll agree that the problem with the health system is systematic, just like the pension system. And that is, in principle, the problem of our economic situation. However, I will take the opportunity to remind myself that there is also political responsibility for this economic situation. In fact, at least some problems, if the problem of corruption had been solved, that the problem of quality work of parliaments and legal uncertainty and relations with entrepreneurs had been solved, we would certainly have a better economic situation, and in this connection both health and pension.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50182	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50183	Of course, what you said is just a typical example of what could have been expected. I said it and I'll do it again. When concrete suggestions come, do you agree with them, or will you find 101 faults? I'm sure you want whatever they are. I'm willing to bet on anything in advance because it's usually happening. And what do you claim to be concrete proposals, please, when did one concrete proposal come to make one segment, just one segment of serious health reform? When did we get a chance to hear it here? Never. I repeat never, so long as the proposal to prepare systematic reforms that must cover more laws and which is very complicated and very complex, and I assure you you will then be against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50184	We have the next replica, the esteemed representative, Nino Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50185	Dear academic Rainer, in your speech on behalf of the club I listened to carefully, you mentioned once 20 times the word “pamphlet” speaking of this request, one 30 times the word “faith”, as if we should be ashamed of the ones who directed it... So I would ask you to explain to me in the context of these categories where you would place the fact that last week, the KBC Zagreb administrative council extended your status despite the fact that you were 68 years old, and at the head of the governing council is mentioned earlier Iskra Primorac, who is a healthy woman from 35.g. Vaccination on 22 January, before healthcare professionals, together with a healthy young husband, before healthcare professionals on the first line. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, 3. Your status is extended despite the fact that only university professors are extended until the end of the academic year when they turn 65. and does this give us all with the case of Iskra Primorac, which extends your status, now the request is made by Ćorušić, the same as Dr Paladin who didn't leave the operating room, ended his status at 65th, as you see it?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50186	Time. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50187	So of course this has nothing to do with anything and it's purely politics, but I'll answer you. First, it's not true that colleague Paladino, who was a top neurosurgeon, left at 65. Retired. You made it up or you read it somewhere, and you can throw it as much as you want, but that's not true. That's one thing. And it was extended beyond 65. Secondly, in order for a university professor to be extended, it is primarily necessary to initiate a procedure at the University of Medicine and University by a secret vote, by a secret vote I stress, to get most votes, then go to the department, then pass the council, then pass the university, and only after it is extended to someone who is in cumulative relation to the university then it comes to, to the hospital or to the administrative council, to the professional council, to the administrative council, etc.. And if you accidentally inquired, then you know that most of the votes were for except one vote from one particular, close to one particular party to the opposition.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50188	The next replica is the esteemed Vice President Sabina Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50189	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Reiner, from your speech, there was actually some impression that you thought that this kind of health care system was actually condemned to a lifetime, so I'm going to say, debt slavery to the health system and that perhaps as the only way out is being imposed so-called. Privatization of health care. That's my impression of your speech, I hope I'm wrong about that. Don't you think it would be more logical, in fact, if one serious reform tried to prevent situations where debt is generated and damages perhaps a health system that needs to be focused on something smarter, and your colleague, Diana Zadravec, pointed out that, under very strange circumstances, private business powermakers of overdoing and financing costs or money intended for the public system? Wouldn't it make more sense that instead of having to pay large amounts of compensation by judgments for overtime, we hire perhaps more doctors to make this system work differently? What do you think is the way out of this situation?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50190	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50191	So, as far as the first one is concerned, my position has always been clear and categorical, I will always represent socialised health, it's never public health, people who talk about public health obviously have no idea what public health is, and what socialised health is. We have a system of socialised health care and I will always represent that there must be a system of socialised health care. Therefore, I am not in any position to privatise health care or privatise existing hospitals, etc. The private system can survive with socialised healthcare, with public hospitals, etc., and on the market exists as all other market operators do. Thus, my attitude was always crystal clear. And what I said is I stand by it. We have a simple health care that is at the level of such and not from now on and not from before, from during the crown, not during even the crisis Which was 10 years ago, but it's been dragging on for decades. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50192	The next replica is the esteemed representative Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50193	Here's a colleague of Reiner's you told him there weren't very specific proposals, only three proposals came from the Workers' Front. So the benefits of working for health workers who are in respiratory centres and others who are involved in the fight against the coronary of the virus, the state's major drug that has started to be discussed, but since 2015, it's obviously been a pre-election topic, and so the Immunological Institute that we've been warning against destroying the Immunological One that's been talking about again, but it's all going to be clearly just that. And when you say that everything is fine, I think it's the same as when HDZ says that it's done a lot for jobs and jobs, and then they deny you even for the social status of everyone in Croatia, so you're being denied by material indicators of poverty and social deprivation that are the best indicators, as well as here. The best indication for you is that 15, 15th place by, in the world, by the number of deaths per 100,000 inhabitants since the beginning of the crown. We had Most of the time, these are the indicators that deny you. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50194	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50195	So, you've been able to say a lot of things here together and put in the same basket of stuff that they belong to and don't belong together. There are facts, there are facts and there are figures, and I'm going back to what I said at first. So, the problems that exist with health funding exist for a very long time, literally decades and decades, and they're actually dragging around all that time, they're a little better, they're a little worse, they're the worst after the second SDP, the first SDP government, they're a little better, and they're changing from time to time. As a society, we must decide whether we want to maintain this level of public health or socialised health and whether we want to afford it. If then we have to find a systematic solution to this, it's not a systematic solution I assure you what you suggested it might be. They're good suggestions, maybe they're not, I'm not getting into it at all, but it won't solve anything in the health care system. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50196	Next replica, distinguished representative Željko Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50197	Dear Academy Director Reiner, the respected ministers along with a series of problems we had today, I would like to give you the benefit of all this with a huge problem that you are aware of, as well as the Croatian public and our minister for sure, and he refers to the treatment of our patients in emergency reception in our hospitals. It was certainly before this crown crisis was in an extremely difficult state, and today I assure you, you can not alone give God that you have experience, but who has experience knows that under 8 hours or accompanied or that the patient does not go out. Please devote yourself to this, if you have solutions, please expose them to how to solve this problem, and if you do not have the work to give them a way to give our patients who are not entering an emergency hospital reception from the obstetrics or from a certain, certain whim to give them these pains and that despair that our system does not does not deepen. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50198	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50199	Of course, I am aware of this problem and certainly, much better than many others because I am in the hospital every day. So, I've been going and not being on duty for years, but I've been in it, and I have patients coming to my ward, so I'm very aware of that problem. Now the problem during the crown is updated, let's be aware that the patient cannot come and be admitted to the ward before being tested on the crown. You know that the test on the crown takes some time, the PSR technique requires a certain time and I'm aware of that, the patients are unfortunately waiting there for 5-6 hours just to find the PSR against the crown. It's something we can't avoid because despite that, especially in the second wave, now in the third wave we're a little better, but in the second wave every so many patients who were negative at the emergency reception, come and the second day be positive because it was, there's so-called. a window in all viral infections where you can be infected hours or 24 hours ago without being caught. But exactly the emergency receptions are something that's Very demanding for a patient, but also for doctors and sisters, I assure you. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50200	Next is an individual debate, Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50201	I will agree with Academy Director Reiner that the problem of health care is a systemic problem and that it is really difficult to find a solution that will allow us to keep our privileges acquired on track of Bismarck's model and we will need a broad and serious debate that exceeds our current possibilities, which is what we need to discuss today's recall of Minister Beros. In that sense, I'll try not to be hyena. As I followed the parliamentary debates before this mandate, which I am currently experiencing, the discomfort caused me the fact that I noticed that the opposition grew teeth during the recall of any minister. Minister Beroš is indeed in a difficult situation and the situation is not only difficult for him, but it is difficult for all of us because we are in an unprecedented health crisis. However, this fact cannot justify us, neither, nor, responsibility for our actions. In that sense, responsibility will certainly be sought, and the scapegoat on that tray as the prime minister has already shown will be his. Because this is not a question of whether we are seeking the recall of Minister Beros, but, unfortunately, the Minister of the fact that you are already an ex, this is the scenario that has already been seen that is repeated with every minister and perhaps better to tell you humanly than to repeat your fate as in the Greek tragedies. First comes the opposition proposal. Then comes the government's response which is always unfavourable by opposition to demonstrate power, and after that goes either your resignation or even better that euphemism when you resign yourself so as not to be burdened by the government. And that prime minister who set you up walking through that whole same scenario is profiting morally because he has cleansed his government of unfavourable personnel. Consider carefully whether you will agree to play a role in the Greek tragedy scenario, or you will assume the responsibility of a free being and you will leave when you decide that it is during that time. And now I'm going to tell you why I think it's today. Not yesterday, not yesterday, not on the trail of all these arguments we could already hear. Today, while we had a discussion here about your recall, there was a second show at the same time. Minister Bozinovic down there suggested and showed reporters Covid's passports where you imagine Croatia suddenly pushed into the front row of those who declared them and accepted them before any other country so that the paradox could be bigger we can't use them, but here we have them. And where is your responsibility now and where is my question? My question is, so where's my minister, the health minister who's put the wheel in the hands of the Minister of the Interior before? Why am I saying that? Because suddenly we have a document that will be all about our ability to move, where one dose of the vaccine is required. So all those epidemiological measures you've instructed us to be key to protecting us from this disease, which are at least two doses of vaccines with a certain interval falling into the water, and we don't have a health minister to explain how it's possible that this kind of health document suddenly becomes a colorful item and that it is worth a completely different rule than it is presented to us by the Minister of the Interior. So is that even a health document? So do we even need two doses of vaccine if now all of a sudden for a document that protects us and makes us free to move is one enough? In this crisis, we need a minister who will give answers to these questions before I can ask them, not that, as we discuss your shift to sneak down there, the interior minister who has determined that the key will, I repeat, a health document that allows or restricts our movement to look. You yourself have withdrawn from the issues in which you were supposed to be in the front row, and that is why I don't think you've been doing your job well enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50202	Next debate, distinguished representative Nino Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50203	My colleagues and colleagues, at least on my example, will have to deny the prophecy of academic Reiner, which is that at the very moment, if we welcome in this session at all, when we get before us concrete proposals for health reform that we will be against. No, I really mean to act like a constructive opposition and support everything, not paralyze like a hyena on the naked consequences. They are necessary at least in the short term to keep the health system busy in the medium and long term in order to avoid collapse, and we drive towards that wall. It's not the first case. I am the happiest indeed without any irony when I can commend the minister or prime minister. Here's the other day I said that Andrej Plenkovic will surely make a good decision today whatever he decides. Or to opt for French, whether for American planes because they're great both. It is, of course, not my mind as a philosopher and an Italianist, but the result of consulting with aviation experts, former military pilots who made it clear to me, reasoned and supported the fact that these are both very good planes, but that a decision should be made as soon as possible by 2024, the pilots would be trained and that our skies in 2024 when the deadlines of the MiGs would not remain uncovered. So here's Prime Minister Plenkovic made a good decision. He couldn't have made a mistake. That's how it's going to be with the health reform we need. There's talk of just criticizing. That's not true. Here's what to do, more or less you and we who have consulted health professionals about the state of that system know what to do. This is generally known and accepted through, for example, the National Health Development Strategy 2012 through 2020, which remained a dead letter on paper. First, there is a need for reform of the hospital system, a reduction in the number of hospitals from 64 to about 30, but whether there is a political force for this, i.e. If your ruling majority of the power to do so is going to have to connect some hospitals that are close, some places will run out of hospitals, and there are some voters, some will join together so that they have complementary activities, and not the same, it's so-called. functional merger, some hospitals will need to be converted to long-term care accommodation, some will be transformed into strong health homes. Better to have a strong good home of health than a pseudo hospital, some will have to close down, it's all painful and politically risky, but without it there is no reform of the health system. Secondly, primary health care should be strengthened by solving a significant number of health needs. This sounds nice, but practice is hard and complex and it means a lot of some small decisions, etc., but we're here to go that way together. I'll be the first to condemn someone who is politically if you really get into that reform that I want to hunt down for some small things and painful cuts on the ground to achieve the current political point. Three, to unite the outpatient and hospital activity of emergency medicine, is also worth everything in complex practice as well as for point two. Four, to strengthen preventive health programs because it's always more expensive to prevent than treat, hot water we all know. Five, carry out accreditation and categorization of hospitals and six change the way services are paid. Instead of the current limit payment, a fixed amount is obtained regardless of how much work is done monthly and instead introduce payment at the service performed and at an economically sustainable price, this would encourage work and success. Here are some things we all know, but what a strong political will needs. So it's not that we don't know, and we're not offering anything concrete. However, the problem is I repeat, is this thin and tense majority of political forces not to crack on the ground to make all these cuts, and on the other hand, whether it is possible to free stakeholders doing jobs, here we have seen IT florists and other examples that we have cited today, and then this link between the health and party policies and party staffing. Academic Reiner is a brilliant scientist, our most quoted scientist, and we're happy to have him, I give you credit for that, however, how can I believe when the head of the board of directors who repeat myself at the age of 35 is a perfectly healthy woman before medical staff on January 22nd with an equally healthy husband vaccinated over each row, and the minister did not initiate her recall after it went public? How can I believe that this woman didn't use the party line to extend her academics to Reiner after '68? A contract in KBC Zagreb than that there really was a need for that? Here are some of the misunderstandings where the profession also pays out and concrete people and their careers and professional reputations because of these political ties that remain inexplicable and sins that remain unsanctioned like that Mrs. Iskra Primorac. Time's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50204	The Republic has Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50205	Thank you very much. You mentioned the various reorganisations of the system, you mentioned the unification of hospitals, etc. And it's all wonderful and wonderful, it's logistics, but this system holds, maintains and makes people. And we had a chance to hear in this debate allegedly that medical technicians and nurses had enough. Here I will read you only one message that I received during this debate, so I would like to hear your comment from one nurse, says “by the middle of the month, we are available for the work of four, because two colleagues are on vacation, so four people fill shifts in the department and we work one in each shift, they have 2 patients, 12 or 24, we work one. ” Is that enough medical staff to provide quality care for these patients? We keep talking about this system that's the way it is in life that keeps people alive, so these people who work in it are doctors and nurses, and they're chronically missing what they're going to be with such a system?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50206	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50207	Two are the basic problems that we constantly highlight and that I have mentioned by citing the first sin of Minister Beroš, which is a sin of iniquities. So there's this hole that's constantly growing and there's already a problem that you've mentioned people leaving the system, going abroad, going to Germany, Ireland where they can be much better paid for this job and working under more normal conditions, but they're going more and more into the private sector. Some decisions will also have to be made. We will have to be more likely and flexible in this state with the staff to allow doctors to do part of the work in private, so find some balance of what they can earn and do by still staying at least most in the health care system not to go to that Germany, Ireland or go to the private sector completely, but all this requires is a comprehensive planning of the reform of the political system and demands a free hand that will not fear the current opinion of voters on the ground or interest groups. I'm not sure this ruling majority has that capacity.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50208	Next is a debate on behalf of the promoter, distinguished representative Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50209	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. As I have announced, I continue to put forward various problems and solutions. I am glad that my colleague Rasdic has already made a lot of good proposals and solutions that we have presented at the meetings of the Committee on Health and Social Policy, as well as from this pay phone, and I hope that some of them will respect the minister. I'm here to represent not only our citizens and our patients, but the health care staff as I come from that resistor. So here's a little bit more about the problems that my colleagues from primary health care are facing, and I'm going to say it on the basis of their letters that I've received, based on their personal address, and here's what I'm calling on the minister to be as few noises in communication as possible, as little insults as we've heard from HZZO's director at a meeting of the Health Committee that the colleagues from primary health care have been doing nothing for a year, and colleagues are actually killing themselves from work, as we have in the hospital system, so here you can take them to the conversation and get a little bit of that communication. So, while family medicine is doing more than 100, up to 180 and 200 contacts a day, it has been called on several occasions for unhappiness. In the course of the pandemic, they enabled patients to contact through several different inputs, which with Viber, telephone machine, e-mail, with the purpose of discharging the phone so that they could use a telephone call to train patients and arrange for them to examine in isolation or in the office. However, they were called inaccessible. In addition to physical examinations of patients daily responds to 70 to 100 e-mails, they examine a bunch of causative findings, daily vaccinations of not 5 people but also 12 and 30 depending on how many vials have been vaccinated, and after regular work, many go to mass vaccination checkpoints. They met with insufficient and slow delivery of doses and a huge amount of administration. They have no administrator and their nurses are not only sisters but they are administrators and are actually forced to do this job, as well as doctors themselves are one good part of the day. In the pandemic, family medicine doctors took over part of the epidemiologist’s work along with their work, so advice on isolation, contact records, testing, now vaccination, and so far the work of a fellow doctor in family medicine has not disappeared, they continue to do it with an increased burden of epidemic. What we have seen for years as the biggest problem in doing their basic work is a huge administrative burden, from writing different instructions, notes and confirmations. Therefore, the services that they could provide are not stimulated by the low prices imposed by the HZZO, when prescribing medicines are fought on the one hand by the HZZO rules, and on the other hand by patients and colleagues from the hospital system because there are certain contemporary expert guidelines, and there are also our HZZO that blocks much of it. Furthermore, family medicine has been devastated by human and organisationally poor solutions to the ministry's work so far. So it's urgent that we solve the problem of specialization in family medicine. I know it's going towards this National Recovery Plan, but it should have been done before Croatia committed itself to the EU by 2020. in family work only family medicine specialists, however, now in 2021, the situation is worse than 5 years ago, 750 family medicine doctors are over 60, 170 older than 65, and they need an additional nurse to handle chronic patients, a administrator who would cover more offices, therefore group practice. I'm glad that after a recent speech in this regard, you have checked the situation, but you have only a fraction of the information, so call those colleagues who have group practice, you have in Međimurje, you have in Breznica, you see how they function and motivate colleagues. Furthermore, 40% of services that could otherwise be provided by colleagues in family medicine who are overloaded are left to the Emergency Medicine Office because they say that 40% of the services they provide are not urgent, and in emergency hospital receptions 70% of the services are category 4 and 5, so not urgent. But can we blame our patients? So they go where they can get a favor, from regular examinations, emergency examinations, palitative care, etc. So, some kind of lesson, one kuna, spent 3 kunas, the hospital system is expensive. We invest one kuna, earn 3 kunas by stimulating and introducing order into primary health care. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50210	We have three replicas, the first one is Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50211	My dear colleague, I'm a layman as far as the health system is concerned. But I can tell you what the doctors of general practice told me when I communicated with them, so with a lot of questions, from vaccinations and various other things during the pandemic. You know what they told me? We don't know anything, we're getting information from the media just like you. We don't get anything from HZZ or the Ministry, no guidance, no opinions, nothing. Now I'm telling you, or I'm asking you rhetorically more here, is that proof of a good organization and dealing with a covid crisis? Not to tell you the situations in which people come to hospitals for bandages, to, to, to the various other ambulatory procedures, let's say so and get rejected. You know why? No bandages, no Band-Aids. I mean, we've come all this way to not have a bandage in the hospital. So if there's no bandage, then what's there?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50212	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50213	Thank you very much. So you put out this series of problems that are hard to answer in one minute. But I have to say, since here and my colleagues are doctors who come from the clinic, maybe from some other hospitals, it's not the same situation in all the hospitals. So, there was, indeed, a problem with the lack of materials for bandages and medications, etc., is there only the director's responsibility, or must you as a conductor, as I have already said, the healthcare system takes care of everything? What you said was a lack of information, so again, the Ministry is the roof, roof, roof person is our minister who, of course, had to distribute all these instructions, not just on the hospital system. We received something of course from these instructions, I say honestly, but apparently colleagues from family medicine were not informed in time, and we all had to educate ourselves, read all these recommendations, go to HZJZ sites, so I think there really was room for some better communication and improvement.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50214	The next replica is the distinguished representative of Romana Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50215	Dear colleagues, Maric, so you mentioned teams of family medicine, so I'm wondering if you have any idea how many missing teams of family medicine and how to relieve the emergency services since a large number of patients arriving in the ER are not urgent according to the profession reports?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50216	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50217	Well, I don't think I got here, but we had some data as much as 2020 was missing, as many as 121 teams of family medicine, and 2. Before that and something less, 118. So there really is room to improve, there is no, I don't know, 50 teams of pediatrics and dental health care, 58 teams of gynecology. This is one of us saying this, we would say the never-ending circle because on the one hand you have doctors of family medicine that are infinitely overloaded, they're doing a huge part of the job, they're suffocated by the administration, then sometimes they just don't know what to do with the patient and send it to the hospital emergency room with a manual. Another pair of sleeves is patients who have access to hospital or emergency medical care also without a manual. So, like I said, they're going where they're going to get a favor. So, overload and hospital system and external emergency and family medicine. That's why I'm saying that quality communication is needed and I don't know. I'm just saying, you know, I'm just saying, you know, I don't [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50218	And the last replica, Honorable Vice President Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50219	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues, two things you mentioned, you mentioned something I mentioned, which is too low the price of services. Yes, we all agree that service prices are too low, but I am also a hospital doctor for them to be realistic, but if a man tries to put on the other side of HZZO has as much money as he has, as much money we give from our salaries to HZZO. And that's divided into a number of services, and now the question that I've asked is the key question, do we want to have this very high level of services that we now have, then we're going to have to have more money for it. And we all have to have a consensus about it together, that's one thing. And the other thing is that there was no patch anywhere, that there wasn't any corner material anywhere is the sole responsibility of running those hospitals. The minister cannot be as responsible as Minister Brnjak can be if there is no towels or toilet paper in one hotel. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50220	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50221	Thank you very much. Here, I'll start with this last thing you said. In part, I agree, but if the minister is aware that, again in some environments, or some health institutions, problems that are not being solved, then there is a need to react. So then there is his responsibility and his involvement, so there is not only the director or head of that medical institution to blame. As for what you've been saying about the inequity of health services, that HZZO is a monopoliest. You agree that your review, the checkup isn't worth 80 kuna, and that's how much you pay for it. I mean, if you were to say how much service prices I think to me, I don't know a washing machine master just look at 250 kuna, and mine or your review is 75 or 80 kuna. That's what we could really talk about right now. And what you said was a consensus, and we talked about these things on the Health Committee, but it's either a basket of services or incomes, expenses. And there's a lot of room to do the expenses, so you don't have to slap patients in the pocket right away. So you need to sit down and talk, go step by step To solve problems. [[Intruder: Time.]] Do you agree? Please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50222	Next individual debate, Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50223	Good afternoon, everyone. First of all, I asked Prime Minister Plenkovic, and I will ask him again and again from my colleagues Reiner and Minister Beros as with the situation in which HDZ assures us that the social situation is better than what the opposition valorises HDZ's work, and then defusing HDZ statistics means the social indicators of material deprivation and poverty in Croatia and here. So what deprives HDZ that they've done everything possible to make things better is statistics, and we're 5 in the world by mortality on 100,000 inhabitants, 15th percent in the world by mortality on 100,000 people. So 197 dead to 100,000 people put us on, in a situation 15th place. So in this situation, we really don't stand well, do we? Better than us, Serbia, Kosovo, Albania, Romania, Austria, to stay in the region alone. Wider than us, meaning wider than the region of Mexico, Spain that had huge mortality in the first wave, Portugal, Germany, France, so mortality is high. So if someone can deny this, it would be good to deny us in our statistical claim that everything has not been done. We can agree, I will really say here that I do not agree at all with part of the opposition which is convinced that the shift of a man can change something, that I do not agree with, but the thing is a team worse and the thing is more complex because we can literally say that HDZ costs Croatian human lives. HDZ is therefore responsible for these human lives. I mentioned that many scientists warned that there was no response in time to the second wave, that measures that were more serious had to be introduced, it was obviously the catering sector, so we didn't get enough vaccines in the third wave, and we can really say that we're losing lives here, but not just because it's a minister who's not doing his job, but a much more serious problem of an autocolonial and ministerial policy that doesn't allow us to do better. And what I see as some kind of hints of better, and I'm actually surprised that I have to admit in some of the debate here is the possibility of introducing a state-owned drug problem and that it's immunologically revitalizing. What I'm not happy with is an answer that says that a well-fused job internship wouldn't help, so I'm just gonna spend a little time explaining why. Benefied work experience is therefore able to improve the status of health workers at the time when it is claimed there is no money for a serious Covid supplement. Therefore, those who work in respiratory centres and with patients who work for more than 8 hours, warn of exhaustion, warn of insufficient facilities of the health system. We can't say we have enough health workers. So we're by the number of nurses per capita in the last place. So there's only Romania behind us. In Croatia, therefore, only 144 sisters come to 100,000 people. Luxemburg has a thousand 172. So that's a really devastating data statistic. According to the number of doctors and the population, we are in the lower third of the European Union. By the number of other medical personnel, we're the last. Administration, public services 5% cost which is very similar to most EU countries. But what I welcome is therefore the announcement of the definition and renewal of the Immunological but yet here come some voices that would question why Immunologically would be useful at all. So pharmaceutical companies, big drug companies are called poor here on the side of the opposition. They've been brought to the brink, they can't take it anymore, it's a very subjective and statistically unconfirmed illustration, an interpretation of what's happening on the ground. So more than 90% of total sector income is generated by 10 major pharmaceutical producers. The return on capital in the sector is 37%. The income of the largest pharmaceutical companies is about 37 billion kuna, etc. So, immunologically, only a small 0.11 percent of the income comes out of it. So, there's a lot of claims, and the state hospitals can't settle their obligations. But apparently those who earn it have a very good business and are profitable so that they can have room for development there.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50224	Time. The violation of the Rules of Procedure is the distinguished representative of Maja Grba-Bujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50225	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here is paragraph 238. 5. To belittle or insult the president or other representatives. As a parliamentary representative of the Croatian Democratic Community, I am offended because my colleague said, quote: "HDZ costs people their lives." It is a disgrace to say. The HDZ that fought with this pandemic and crisis, which prevented the collapse of economics in this country, which allowed everyone to be treated in these hospitals where there were drugs, and people, and respirators and who dealt with this crisis to say it for one party.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50226	Time. It was a replica more, so you get a warning. The individual debate is followed by the distinguished representative Karolina Vidovic Kristo.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50227	Ladies and gentlemen, the situation in Croatian health is only a reflection of the general state in Croatian society, and this situation has a common denominator of disorder, favouring narrow groups and abuse. But not to be confused, our doctors, our nurses, completely medical personnel in the vast majority doing excellent work, doing, trying and sacrificing. But as in other segments, the social problem is in the way of leadership, intransparency and general disorder due to the non-compliance with the law by the government itself. All of us who are not part of the political establishment have experience with this health care. Order for magnetic resonance, order to the hospital at dermatologist's, and I'm saying this during the pre-pandemic, so you'll see when you get your appointment. People tell me it's sometimes 12 or 16 months, etc. We all know when it comes to malignancies that the speed of diagnostics is the key to healing or mortality. Who's responsible for this situation? It would be naive to think that health is run by Minister Beros. Health care is managed by political caste non-transparently as Croatian societies are managed by privileged children of communism, and the government only formalises those decisions. These groups purposely destroy regular institutions to encourage, for example, the private affairs of the health officials themselves. We have an example of the Institute of tumours in Zagreb. The clinic has been without a headmaster for almost two years, and is run by an official who has his own private office along the way. How is it possible that someone's been a temporary director for two years? It's only possible if you want to destroy that institution. What is the logic of setting up the President of the Governing Council of the KBC, Split Jugoslav Bagatina, 72 years of age? Has the former director of the Wine Town Hospital, Mario Zovak, affected his son and unlawfully amended his contract and abolished the obligations of all other specialists in Croatia? These are questions we don't have answers to. I ask these questions as a parliamentary representative, but all other Croatian citizens are asking themselves these questions. Croatian citizens have the right to these answers because they finance the HZZO. They're funding this government that runs that health system. Your model of health management is the same as your model of managing Croatian hiding of truth, bribing the media in order not to write about this truth and controlling the justice system so that you are not processed because of the corrupt way of managing the system. In addition to your abuses, the way you manage the system is bizarre. Our hospitals are falling apart, and the directors of these same hospitals as if everything was in the best order are further named in the administrative councils of other hospitals. Apparently, they have extra free time. The model is clear. The narrow handful of selected must have everything under control and the public must of course not know the real situation. Quality, knowledge and morality do not exist in this government's dictionary. On the orders of Prime Minister Plenkovic, Minister Beroš was glorified to tasteless North Korean proportions when Beroš, who is new to your policy, is also honest when he told the truth that happened to come to the public, suddenly becomes suspicious, corrupt and evil. Beroš reminded him that he gave the proposal for reform to Plenkovic, but he keeps those reforms in the drawer. As a result of that statement, Beroš became the main culprit, and by order of faction number one i.e. Plenkovic's HDZ faction number two of the same Grbin's SDP organisation is triggering Beros's impeachment. Nothing would change if, instead of Willie Beros, in these circumstances, any other person were to be a minister. In Croatia, there must be a legal order in which there are no laws that are not applicable or adapted to them. Ladies and gentlemen, as long as nepotism and corruption are government policy, and the judiciary is not acting on a policy order, and the media to whom the tax payer's money is not working for the public, but for the corrupt structures will not be changed. Croatian citizens must use all democratic methods in this I include public protests and fight for the rule of law because it is evident that those who are paid to enforce the laws are breaking them themselves. The elemental right of Croatian citizens is to be equal before the law, not for Croatia to be a self-serving service for today in Croatia, the ruling children of communism. I will vote for impeachment because every day of this government is a lost day for Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50228	Next, individual debated representative Eric Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50229	Dear Vice President, honourable ministers, colleagues and colleagues and members of this House. It is said here that this recall request is a political pamphlet and that the text that is in that pamphlet is not good, so I have made an effort to focus my discussion on something that is not in this political pamphlet. It may not even be directly related to this term of office, which began a year ago, but in which an opportunity was given to repair what the changed ministers in the previous government damaged and destroyed in the health system. They destroyed the homes of health, the county homes of health completely destroyed. I'll explain, today there's no point in the county building health homes for one reason because there's no longer a obligation for the medical clinic to be in a home of health, especially if we've brought down de facto public health care in primary health care by percentages, so from 50 progressive to 25%. And then what happens? Then it happens that we have private medical clinics in large environments that are certainly doing well, and the counties impose an even availability of healthcare from the island to Gorko Kotar where there is no way that you will find a private health clinic that will have enough to meet the criteria for signing the contract with HZZO and then have to take care of the county. What are we doing with that? This de facto essentially eliminates the principle of solidarity that where we have more users to compensate for where we have a small number of users. And of course, that cruel privatisation seems intentional, it's not the case and has nothing to do with the pandemic. The second thing, when we talk about specializations again, specializations also go to the burden of both the state budget and local budgets, or the county budget. Well, what did we do? After paying the doctors specializations and binding them with a contract of five years or more or the discretion that exists, it was that the doctor still undertakes that after paying the specialization to stay working at that health care facility for five years, we have now reduced the amounts they must repay if they leave five years ago, depending on whether they went abroad, depending on whether they moved to another public health facility. But wait, someone to whom the City of Zagreb paid specialization comes to Rijeka and Rijeka is not damaged but Zagreb is damaged and the opposite, and the opposite is understood. It's public money, it's public money and colleges are also public money, so people who study so the state still invested in that education. But that's how we get what we get. And far from it being nice and wonderful to work out that we understand ourselves and that the market, that the labour price is worth everything, is not only worth it to doctors, it is also true for welders, it is also true for tokers, it is not only for doctors, but our public health service is as it is, in fact, deliberately, reduced to raw capitalism and connections and acquaintances, I don't mean Mrs. Zadravec. Which is a longer waiting list, and life is my loved ones or mine, of course I'm going to run away from the private. And then what happens? First you ask your primary health care doctor whether it's private or public, you go to the KBC to look for a specialist review and then he tells you, and because of the limit we don't have toner pigments or whatever they're called, then you go to the private then the privateer gives you a manual and then you see wonders there are both toners and pigments and everything. In the Labour Act, there is a provision that is related to the ban on matches, if the doctor does not have a ban on the game, however, in the morning with the basic assets purchased from taxpayers he can work privately under the rule of law, according to the rule. And then when he has to take in ten people, if he sees someone happen to have a Swiss watch and a little bit better to come over this afternoon, then I'm working in private, so I'm going to be more dedicated to you. It's not every doctor like that, but it's enough to say one little call that can shake a whole The system and that's what's going on with us. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] And I'll finish if you let me do just one thing, now I've read that the antigen home tests in Croatia will cost between 75 and 85 kuna, you see every health insurance company in Switzerland has a five-month right, and a set in France costs 60 euros five pieces. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] I see I have a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50230	Replica's esteemed representative Mario Kapulica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50231	I just wanted to replicate the statement of a respected representative on harsh capitalism that is ruling in Croatian health care. This is the insulin I take for 23 years in harsh capitalism. I would have paid this pen for over $200,000 so far. I don't pay anything for this type of insulin in Croatia. It's public money, it's solid money spent, but talking about harsh capitalism and comparing it with some in Croatia, people who would die, who suffer from rare diseases, who would be dead in America, Switzerland, Germany, do not die in Croatia. So the issue of harsh capitalism in Croatian health is a complete failure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50232	Mr. Capula, otherwise I said I'm dealing with social rights in the international regime. We're talking about civilized countries... I'm not talking about wild America. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] But I'm saying what's going on, and that's what we're trying to become what you've listed. And if we keep this up, we're on an extremely good path. And as for insulin, look in other EU countries, the EU, look how much the medicines cost in Slovenia, see how much the medicines cost in Italy, how much they cost in Austria, and how much they cost in Croatia, and I deliberately mentioned a home antigen test that will cost twice as much in Croatia as in France. ... [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50233	Next is an individual debate of a distinguished representative...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50234	We are not in the EU ministers. ... [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50235	Please don't argue from the bench. Dear representative Romana Nikolic, the next individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50236	Honorable Vice President HS, respected ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. Today, in the assembly, we are discussing a proposal to launch and a matter of trust from the Minister of Health, which was submitted by 41 MPs because of moral and political responsibility based on the procedures and failures made by the minister in the course of his work and jurisdiction. The reasons for launching the trust are clear as day. For months now, we've been facing health problems, numerous affairs, accumulated health debts so much that we're in the middle of a pandemic and fighting this unfortunate virus that we've been fighting for over a year now. Citizens with malignancies could not receive adequate medical care. According to data from 40 major drugstores, a member of the association of trade in large, pharmaceutical products, products and orthopaedic aids, HGK total debt of the hospital and pharmacy system passed 5.2 billion kuna on 31 January this year. According to the latest data, however, the debt has reached a huge 6.5. With new payments, the debt has been slightly reduced to about 3.5 billion and time bought by the end of the year. And what about after that? Veledrogeria warned that disorders in the drug supply system could be expected again if there were no urgent reactions from the resolution ministries. I must remind you that Minister Beros has been an assistant to the post since January 2018 and that Minister Beros, despite being part of the health management system, has failed to resolve or reduce the debt in healthcare, especially according to large-scale drugs. No plan has been developed to determine the dynamics of the surplus repayment of the dues. The long announcement of health reform has not been initiated at all, and when the pandemic of good has come an excuse that they have not been able to reorganize the health system because there we have been. So what do we have today? Oncological and dialysis patients are at risk, and some patients have been forced to obtain important medicines themselves for life. There have also been huge problems with the vaccination system. There are indications for possible guessing in the construction of the "VpiSe" system paid over 4 million kunas which, before the start of the procedure, failed. This is where our health workers, who in the great chaos that has arisen, put their knowledge and time at their disposal for the welfare of society, presented a commendable burden. And instead of making it easier for them and getting distracted from the ministry by the nose and calling them "unhappiness" and demeaning doctors of family medicine who have been working overtime since the beginning of this pandemic. In all of these, and there are others, this proposal is justified by opposition representatives. There are countless problems, and we are aware that the system that has been in ruins for years will not improve overnight, but I also think that we must move from somewhere if we do not want to be hostages to the irresponsible policy of the government and their ministry because this is simply not how the Ministry of Health works.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50237	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Ivan Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50238	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Minister and Secretary of State. Here's today's debate on the recall of the Minister of Health's opportunity is also to affirm aphidically everything that was done in the time of the Covid-19 epidemic in the Republic of Croatia. What is good is that at EU level, the number of new infections is decreasing and everyone is saying that the light is approaching at the end of the tunnel we talked about for months and hoped for. For weeks, fewer new infections have been reported throughout Europe, so it is clear that the wave of the crown is nearing its end. According to the European Centre for the Prevention and Control of Diseases in most parts of the EU, and we can certainly count the incidence of new cases between 60 and 120 per 100,000 people for weeks. In just over a year, there has been a lot of debate in this high home about how the government of the Republic of Croatia and the Resort Ministry are working on the best health care of people suffering from covids, so it has naturally started with medical protective equipment. From the very beginning, we know well that in the Republic of Croatia no medical protection equipment was missing, then there was a debate on the tests, whether the PCR test, or the rapid antigen tests, we listened to different proposals from some of our close countries that were doing testing on the general population and that did not give us much results and of course we came to vaccination despite all the difficulties that were happening and about the distribution of vaccines at the level I stress the entire EU almost a month after the start of testing in the Republic of the Netherlands. We have come to a situation where on a weekly basis 330,000 doses of vaccines come into the Republic of Croatia and I expect not only from the position but also from the opposition that we all encourage and communicate together, we positively communicate with the Croatian public, and we stress among those people who may be in that gray zone who have not yet decided to stress the importance of the benefits of vaccination and vaccines as the greatest reach of medicine. I mentioned earlier that the Economist also mentioned that it took more than a dozen years to decode the first viral genome, this was done thanks to the European Commission's efforts and the European Commission's joint investment in vaccine research to effectively decode the SARS-CoV-2 gene within a few weeks and to obtain more effective vaccines in less than a year. The most important message today is that we are in a situation that almost 40% of the adult population of the Republic of Croatia received at least one dose, and we hope that, with all that has been provided by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by 30 June, that we will be vaccinated between 50 and 55% of the adult population, which should certainly be realized by this dynamic. What is also important is that they are tourist workers, we are in front of the tourist season also after these priority groups are placed in the order of the championship and that is an extremely favourable answer. I would also mention that today it was not too much debate that the Ministry of Health at this time, despite the fact that respiratory physical difficulties were logical in the first plan because this was the main cause of deaths especially in elderly people with physical complications, that all segments of mental health care in the Republic of Croatia were extremely well adapted to emerging circumstances, and this would not be possible without understanding of the Ministry of Health. The continuity of psychiatric care has been ensured for people with mental disorders, but it has also been offered a number of quality programs, including through telepsychiatric care for people who for the first time had mental disorders, not only because of the covid epidemic but also because of devastating earthquakes that hit not only the City of Zagreb and the Zagreb region but also our Banovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50239	We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Rade Simičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50240	I thank the vice president of HS. Your Honor. Not only us but the whole world has surprised the pandemic of the coronary virus, but we must also be realistic and tell the truth that our health system has quickly transformed and that we have done everything to protect the covid of sick people. And it does not say that Croatia has been debilitating either in equipment or in the protection of patients. I also want to point out here that the health system has worked and I commend all people from hospital directors, nurses, doctors and all employees who have made superhuman efforts to protect patients. And now that we've come into a situation where we have enough vaccines instead of us calling for people to be vaccinated, we're finding difficulties that just don't stand. So there's a vaccine, 8 million and 500 thousand doses, let's choose to vaccinate and protect ourselves from covid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50241	Time. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50242	Dear fellow Shimičević, I agree with you. The joint conclusion of all EU countries that it is necessary to strengthen the public health response, despite all objective difficulties, despite the lack of health care professionals who are a global problem, and not only in the Republic of Croatia, we have shown that the Croatian health system is effective and sustainable. Therefore, there was no shortage of respirators, it was not as was the case in some countries that are much richer, which are EU members that waited hours at the entrance to health institutions because there were no free beds. So these are facts to talk about, but I'm sorry that on the side of the opposition in the first part of the sentence was calling lockdown and curfew, and this afternoon there was a debate on human rights. So let me remind you, France, Greece, Italy, Spain, these are countries where the curfew is still in effect.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50243	The next replica is Honorable Representative Davor Ivo Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50244	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You come from the health system so you know the positive aspects and challenges in this system and without this debate it is well known to you. You are also a member of the Foreign Affairs Committee of the Parliament, and you know that during this pandemic and in other countries, legitimate recovery sought the responsibility of the health ministers and the same legitimately ruling majority trusted the government and the health minister. What seems to me to be missing in this debate from those who initiated it is some concrete idea of how to reform the social state because we talk about it when it comes to health reform. So keep the social state, but also within the framework of fiscally possible and under some fiscal responsibility. I don't know if you might have noticed this idea in this debate due to technical problems, there's no sound of cca 5 minutes. Well, finish this replica of the distinguished representative Maja Grba Bujevic, and then we'll take a break. Maya, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50245	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I will not comment on what my colleague said, so this is embarrassing, but I will say that during this crisis, the minister was not only dealing with covid, but also on the use of EU Solidarity Fund funds to restore them from the earthquake of the RS health system building. That's a billion and 100. Then, by mapping the needs of health care, we will be able to withdraw funds for the next 7 years, as well as with the issue of the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, which through 4 points will allow a series of reform measures that have already been envisaged in the Ministry of Health. There's still a lot of it, but since time is running out, I'm not going to comment any further. But I can't help but look back at everything I heard today without a single argument. It's quite unacceptable for us in health care. We have learned from evidence-based medicine, so we want to hear from the opposing side the evidence of what they claim.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50246	Time. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50247	Thank you. Dear colleagues of Grba-Bujevic, we could also discuss the emergency helicopter service. For example, instead of seeking justification and work of headquarters, we can rightly be proud today of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which has defined for the health security of citizens, which has been determined to preserve jobs. As a representative from the City of Zagreb, 215 thousand workers received certain funds in the equivalent of 2 billion kunas in the City of Zagreb so that they would not achieve the wickedness of prophecy by the opposition of 400 thousand people at the Employment Service. These are facts and we don't use it for any daily political needs. We are not Oximoron, but we are responsible representatives and we have the right to talk about it affirmably, because the light shows that it is the way it should be.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50248	Time's up. Yeah, the traffic lights show time's up. Now we're gonna take a break by 4:00 and 25. [[It's 4:00 P.M.]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 16,25 HOURS]] On behalf of the promoter, Honourable representative Andreja Marić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50250	Thank you very much. The esteemed Vice President of the Assembly, dear colleagues and colleagues, here are the ministers and associates, but we will continue to do what we do with our health system. First, it would refer to some statements by colleagues from the ruling majority that are incorrect. So we didn't call the crown, we didn't call the lock down, we didn't call the curfew as the colleague says in the morning, and this afternoon he talks about human rights. We spoke and asked for the adjustment of epidemiological measures to the situation in a particular environment. Remember we talked about the traffic lights, we talked about the cost of benefit analysis that we didn't see today, we heard about the costs but the cost of benefit analysis for the entire health system, so even during this time pandemic has not yet been reported. My colleague Grba Bujevic says we don't use arguments, so all the time we're arguing, especially us who are really in the health system, we're witnessing a situation that really exists on the ground, we're not making it up. So we base ourselves on what the citizens tell us, what we see as a profession and what our colleagues tell us. I'm going to move on to what I've stood for in the previous exhibition, or in the replicas, which is the question of rationalization of the system. Of course we need to settle our incomes, but we also need to take care of expenses. Every year it's spent on health care between 23 billion and 27 billion kunas, actually now the figure is much larger. The Minister of Finance not once stated that in Croatia, health care is the figure of EUR 861 per capita, or 8.6% of GDP, in other countries EUR 3,100 and 9.9% of GDP respectively, and there should be a health system at all. What does that tell us? It tells us that, of course, this is no longer going on, this system is no longer sustainable and the state has to present reforms and clearly tell everyone how it will do so. Will and how much they hit each of us or every citizen's pocket but don't do it under the radar. And what happens in reality? Here's an example, a new supplement has recently come into effect for medicines that patients have not yet paid for. For example, in my profession, many diabetic patients complained that they could no longer pay for their medicine because the price suddenly jumped by 80, 130 and even 200 kuna, so they prayed for another medicine, Metformin, Levothiroxin, means for the treatment of thyroid disease, kuna per kuna, meaning on the small door HZZO has made a reference medicine that works every year, and this has resulted in the addition, but the problem is that medicines are classified by groups and not by molecules. Well, that's not done. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, And then when a patient asks for a change of medication, you have to give him some kind of cheaper and less good variant that's not being paid. Next example of how our citizens and our patients are pounding in our pocket, here's an argumentable fellows this is a memo sent by the Croatian Association of Diabetic Associations probably to your address, sent to the media, it was recently and we could hear and host the president of the Croatian Association of Diabetic Associations in a conversation with the representative of HZZO. What's this about? Therefore, as of June 5th, the HZZO decision to cut the number of strips on which they are entitled annually from 100 pieces to 50 pieces for non-inject therapy. Has the waist been consulted? It's not. Have the patients' associations consulted? No, they're not. So we learned about it literally two days ago when we had a congress of endocrinological or Croatian diabetic congress. So, these things don't work under the radar, and then it's like interpreting that, yeah, well, we're not the ones who just hit our patients in the pocket. You're not like that, are you? The profession needs to be consulted. Maybe it is someone, maybe a society is consulted I don't know, but a roof diabetes company, a roof diabetes reference clinic, she didn't have a clue about it, that's not the way it is. So you can't have a pandemic at this time when our diabetes patients are going to be more and more acute complications and chronic complications of diabetes, even like this, hitting them in the pocket and making it impossible for them to control quality.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50251	We have two replicas, the first distinguished representative of Ante Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50252	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Marić, you come from the health system right now, so you have some information and you know what you're talking about firsthand, what you're dealing with. In your presentation, you mentioned exactly the rationalization of the system and the very costs of the health system, and now that we see both from the government's explanation and from these materials that we get when we see 2.5 billion kuna securely related to the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, when we see what the ministry has done, the overtime where the government has provided certain funds, when we see the total costs of the crisis itself, the joint public procurement, and everything else that has been rationalized about the costs, there's something positive that you want to tell the minister and say ok, these 3 things are good, let's just keep going and put that in, that and that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50253	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50254	Thank you very much. So 60 seconds is not enough to elaborate, I think that the Minister or State Secretary took part in the meetings of the Committee on Health and Social Policy, which we usually convened, but irrelevantly, important that they were held, where we also made very clear our proposals for a solution and what the problems were. So you have to solve the item per item. I've said in all my previous exhibitions, not just today. Probably follow a little, and in the past whenever the exposure is, we'll never be ashamed of what's right. So some things went well, so we elaborated. Is that right? But what is the point of this presentation today? What we told you was not good to be late in decisions, that something had not been done transparently, that this should be done like this, this is what this is about, that when the arguments are heard, what we are saying, and then it is up to you to act and learn from the mistakes.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50255	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50256	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague Maric. So, you remember the debate we had in December that lasted long in the night, the minister was at that debate and he still had the consequences of the crown that they felt then and I must admit that I personally felt sorry for him for being here deep into the night, but it was his destiny. And then we spoke and stressed that something that follows us was vaccination and that it must be well prepared for vaccination. Today we know that after this corona crisis, there will certainly be, so those of you who deal with this will be a lot of mental problems, there will be a lot of domestic abuse, there will be a lot of work with children who live. Two years don't usually go to school. Two years are not in the kind of socialization that it takes, not to say that what's basically some kind of trust in their parents this earthquake has shown that parents don't deal with it. So, a string, a series of problems. And now that we're pointing out that now we need to prepare ourselves again, we don't get adequate answers. So now we're pointing to something that's going to be and that's going to have to be solved. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50257	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50258	Thank you very much. Yes, you're right, you've detected well. What we were actually saying was then at the debate both later and in free speeches and on various occasions. There will be a problem with the mental health of all, therefore, our children and all other citizens. There'll be a problem with somatic health. Here I mentioned not only the complications of diabetes, but there will be undetectable, or late discovered and oncological patients, preventive programs are watch objectively stopped. But that's why we need a plan to make up for everything that didn't work out because of the pandemic. And just what we've been saying, it means step by step to solve. Create working groups if you still don't have them. So you've seen all the problems, which are all the suggestions. For example, we've told you more than once, many months ago, include being a visible expert in crisis communication, psychiatrist, etc. Maybe they are kind of off the record some kind of counselor But that's not what people see and don't trust. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50259	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Marina Opačak Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50260	Dear colleagues and colleagues, that the state of health is catastrophic, we're not just talking here today and it's not just an opposition. He also confirmed it during a meeting of the Health Committee a few weeks ago and Minister of Finance Zdravko Maric himself when he warned Minister Beros about expenditures at the Ministry of Health through public criticism. He then said as a member of the government that health care is not going very well. Then we heard from him that out of the estimated amount of 2.7 billion kuna this year, there will be as much as 4 times the amount. So, by the end of this year, the government should provide nearly 10 billion kuna for the health system, which for regular business, which is to settle the accumulated debts of hospitals and pharmacies according to large-scale drugs. That 10 billion kuna recovery by the end of the year is going to be the biggest health care recovery ever, but that's all I'd say is the immediate ceasefire because you and all of you colleagues here know it very well, because recovery is the worst form of financing the health system. This did not trigger health reforms, thus not reorganising the hospital system was not started, thus not revising public procurement, thus not optimising consumption or bringing financial experts to the head of the hospital, which will ultimately create a complete recovery plan. That actually only pays the oldest debts. And it's clear to all of us that the health care system is cramping in debts that are being accumulated daily especially according to major drugs. Which is why the suspension of medicines continues to hang over our heads every day, and health care funds are being spent in parallel without clear criteria, rules and supervision. Every Croatian citizen singles out for health insurance every month and indeed Croatian citizens do not deserve to be held hostage by irresponsible policies, as in March this year Minister Willi Beros announced that Croatian workers could increase their contribution to health pay, which is why he plans to settle the debt to the wholesalers. At that time, the minister did not specify how much growth would be involved, as he did not announce any genuine health reform measures that could generate savings, which do not go to the expense of Croatian employees and employers. And this way I refer to the question to which Croatian citizens are waiting for an answer. Would your announced reform go over the back of citizens again by increasing your salary for healthcare and is that how you planned to secure your savings? The Veledrogerias again warn that the problem has not been solved and that we can still be expected to have disorders in the drug supply system unless there is a reaction by the restoring ministries. So, what we resent about the Minister of Health is unquality preparation because there is no clear programme of rehabilitation and health reform and there is no plan to settle the accumulated debt in health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50261	We have a replica of the distinguished representative Ivan Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50262	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear MPs, Opačak-Bilić, mentioned earlier, so then Mr. Slavko Linic's Finance Minister, who increased the public debt by relieving debts by 6 and a half billion kuna. You're saying it's not good. I'm interested in what you offer as an alternative proposal and what you think about the county hospitals that are debtors and whose debts the county can't co-finance, but the state does. What do you think of the transfer of ownership from the county to the level of the Republic of Croatia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50263	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50264	Thanks for asking. So as far as this last matter of transfer from county to state is concerned, I think it would ultimately be good because the state still needs to monitor and keep the entire system under control. Furthermore, I would have gone over, and I haven't been able to replicate when you mentioned several times in your presentation today that it's not so bad in health care, that we have excellent results, excellent doctors and that is so. It's not all about health care. We can really boast of some good things. First by transplanting your lungs, which you already mentioned. But it kind of feels like we're giggling on other people's feathers, because where's ours, where are our doctors? We export them while we say the best neurosurgeon in Croatia works as a general practitioner. ... Best yes. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50265	The next replica is the distinguished representative Martina Vlasic Iljkic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50266	Thank you. The prominent MPs, Minister Beros, announced a more serious approach to debt resolution as early as September 2020. But the reactions came only in March when supplies to hospitals stopped. How do you comment on such a way of doing business or managing the way the fires are stopped, and we see that the government is obviously acting in this way in all the corridors? Where is management and where is business process management really?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50267	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50268	Thank you. Well, as I was saying, in March when our medications were stopped, and it was actually only a part of our debt that still threatens us to limit delivery of drugs both in hospitals and in pharmacies, and we know that it is particularly endangered oncological and dialysis patients. And we really expect, we actually expected from the government a real and concrete plan to solve this problem but we didn't see it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50269	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Damir Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50270	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues, you said in your statement that this government is conducting irresponsible policies. Now my question is whether irresponsible policy is what was done in this crisis, so 10 and a half billion kuna is allocated for workers for 700 thousand workers in the Republic of Croatia? Is it irresponsible policy that it is ensured that the employers of them are 120 grand working at the time of this crisis? Is an irresponsible policy of 2 billion and 200 million kunas that were additional costs of Covid crisis for vaccination, for testing, for treating, for covering the sick is it all irresponsible policy? And on the other hand, is the SDP policy responsible, which has recovered the debt in a way that has been credited? Is that the way you call it and do you think it's a responsible policy? Is the policy responsible to raise the VAT rate from 23% to 25% in order to settle those debts? Is it a policy of responsibility that you seemingly reduced the separation for a health contribution when you realized you were missing something and you raised it again but you didn't reduce VAT? So, is this the responsible policy you're calling out for?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50271	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50272	I don't call for irresponsible politics. I'm just saying what the finance minister said means that health care isn't going the best way. And I hold with irresponsible policy that Minister Beros was already a minister before he became a member of the health management system as Deputy Minister Kujundzic, he is now two years minister. Should I go any further? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50273	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Anka Mrak Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50274	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I have to admit that, here this debate is already slowly coming to an end, I feel like in that movie Endless Day or Endless Day where you wake up every morning and when you wake up it's happening all over again with some little change. So we have debates like this in this House and when it was in the former council and now it's being led. So, the opposition pointed out that a certain minister was not doing his job well, the prime minister would come here and start defending him, so someone would stay a little longer, with some of them a little shorter and then it would take some time and then the conditions would go away, as the chairman usually says, that we would vote when conditions were met and then the conditions would be met and then all the conditions would be achieved, then what the ruling people would praise, they said, they said it was good, that we were saying wrong, that we didn't understand all that we would forget, and then that minister would go away. Someone would go in the package, someone would go individually, and so I get the feeling that this debate is going on as well. So, first of all, Mr. Grbin's exposure was said to be a political pamphlet, that this was a delusion that was in the first stage. Then in phase two, let the opposition that he's proposing so he can suggest something, so let's suggest a certain reform and see what it is. Good and ruling and opposition knows that no matter what the opposition suggests, the opposition suggests something that I don't know now, I don't see it up to what time it is for the ruling to vote exactly what they want. The opposition made proposals that were very benign, which had nothing to do with the light. They had connections to make things a little better. And how did the ruling vote? Unisono. Against. And I don't even have anything when you vote against, but I do. Come on, take it and do something. I'll just remind you, for example, of the latest amendments and additions to the Penal Code. I'll remind you of some amendments to the law that I've referred to in the parliamentary procedure the one that is very, very much I would say even a Bennigan who talks about reducing VATs to hygienic supplies therefore related to the menstrual cycle of women. And how will they vote? He won't vote. So it's a play we have all the time and we do all the time. So, I have to remind you, in December we were up until the early morning we were sitting there or someone was sitting, someone was at home then there was this big escalation when we had thousands we counted the number of infected who were with the crown and then we asked Minister Berosha, the ministers were going to start the vaccination, we were all calling for vaccination and we became aware that the only fissure of the nation led to safety, are you ready for that vaccination. So the three elements are vaccination, one that we have enough vaccines, the other that we are organised to be able to do it organisationally and the third element to be done and to invite people to be vaccinated. And you can have a sufficient number of vaccines, so all three elements are equally important and all of these three elements make architecture or make structure. And then the minister said, yes, that there's no problem, all that's okay, everything's under control, and we saw that it's not, we saw that it was a vaccine problem. I have to be honest and correct and I always try to be, it wasn't just Croatia's responsibility, so the responsibility was at EU level, but we were a real little limp cat. The second topic is this unfortunate platform that's been paid for by huge money and that doesn't work. It didn't work then, it doesn't work now. Justification that there are county platforms that work is an excuse that is. So, we have health care, there's only one thing to say is, God gave, and lived in interesting times, Minister Berosha fell into being a minister in interesting times in interesting times to have a crown and a crown problem. And now we've got this whole shishpiz and negligentness and ignorance and failures and corruption and incompetence, and it's all spiced up with some big words and some big story. And now I'm going to use this area just to say one thing, and now we're warning those who professionally deal with health care and others, this crown is going to bring out all the problems we have out of mental health, with children's health, with family abuses, with a series of problems, now we have to be ready to solve it, when it comes it's too late. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50275	We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Ante Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50276	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Mrak Taritash, I think you've said the first sentence best, and I think we should have stayed on, that you've compared this debate with the endless day because just now that we're looking at it, and it's going to be a few more hours of debate, and we've referred the right questions, and we haven't made any real criticism, I think we've wasted unnecessary time. You're the only good thing you mentioned in the replica a few days ago, and these are the consequences of the covid. We could simply use the minister and ask the right questions about both the social and educational and financial consequences that we will have after the covid to see the plans of the ministry, to see what the minister has prepared for this next period, and we simply did not ask those questions. We're going around in circles, we're talking about some old issues, and here I'd like you to admit as an experienced representative, and to finally confirm that this was unnecessary and to withdraw your signature from this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50277	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50278	Thank you very much. My colleague Bačić, I can agree with you anything is unnecessary, the minister could resign and leave and not be there all day and neither would the minister harass everything together, so he absolutely had the opportunity to tell the company of mine it seems to me that this is much bigger than the team with which I can, I messed up where I am and I'm going to do some other writing or I'm going to deal with the Wine Town Hospital with everything that we have in the Wine Town Hospital. Of course, each of us sees differently and the purpose of democracy is to look differently, and the point is that we sit here to look differently, we represent different attitudes, and we represent different ideas, and we represent different people who chose us to come to this House and look at things differently. But you and I know very well that this debate might have been about a month ago and it would have been different. Now a lot of water has passed under the Sava Bridge.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50279	Next replica, the esteemed representative Ivan Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50280	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable MPs Dark Taritash, yes, if it were a month ago it might have been a little different, but now it's a little better situation watching the light at the end of the tunnel. And it's just important when we talk about this whole thing to look at, not to pull out five days, ten days, but to look at it completely, and then if we look at it completely and objectively, then we see that the result is extremely good. When you talk about problems that were at the beginning of the technical platform, I will remind you that there are four ways of applying to the vaccine, it is through the doctor of family medicine, the Institute of Public Health, telephone lines and the fourth is only vaccines.hr. How about this thing doesn't work, 29.4. 47,000 people have been vaccinated, the average is now somewhere around 30,000 doses, so the thing doesn't work say that such figures would be so high and how would they have 40% at this point split? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50281	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50282	Thank you very much for your question. So, I tried to log in on the log-in platform a couple of times and I didn't make it. I've been vaccinated for the first time before, so the second time I'm inoculating myself on the 16th, so that's what it's like to see if it's a Pfizer on the way because at one point you couldn't get to your doctor who's in charge of you because it's all been overbooked, try using the phone to contact, try using the platform. But come on, you answer me one very simple thing, of course you can't answer me. We have a program that works perfectly in health care, we have a program where you really do drugs and instructions go by electronic means and you no longer carry any paper, you can send an email to your doctor what you need and it's done, why this platform couldn't be used, but there was a new platform of vaccines that didn't work and that cost four million or so, and we had a story in something that worked. So, if something works, it works for us. [[Intruder: Time.]] You don't have to. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50283	Please don't argue from the bench. The distinguished representative Ljubica Lukačić is the next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50284	I thank my esteemed colleagues, so here is my colleague, Celić, who explained most of what I actually wanted to rephrase to you, so if at first and perhaps some technical problems, you can't say that people are not called for vaccination. We witness this every day and see for ourselves what the numbers are today for the people that are already split every day. I personally believe that you too testify that people are being called to vaccination and that people are all, in a growing number every day, being vaccinated. So, the platform works, people are calling for vaccination, and I'm sure we can agree with that, even though today you're saying something else that this government and this minister have come very seriously to the pandemic problem and have faced the difficulties they've faced so far. No government met without the health system falling anyway. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50285	Thank you very much for your replica, colleague Lukačić, I don't know what you think the health system has fallen. Which would have been the moment the health system went down and what that would have meant together. So, this whole health-related story, what I said, Mr. Beros or Minister Beros became a minister, she lived in interesting times, in interesting times. On the crown, no one was ready in the world, no one was ready in the world. The truth God must remind me that we had already won the crown there once before the parliamentary elections, then it was said that we had won the crown and that we had to go on even though something there was gossiping so that in the fall and winter we could have a serious wave. And then all summer the minister didn't prepare for that fall and winter and then the fall and winter came and the crown came and the minister was unprepared together with the entire ministry. That's the facts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50286	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50287	The main question here is whether Willi Beros has the trust of Andrej Plenkovic, has, I am more confident that after the media revealed the affairs that William Berosa exhibited as another in a series of corrupt HDZ ministers, Andrej Plenkovic has not only retained confidence in his minister, but that confidence has grown. And if you remember how, in his time, Juncker pinched Andrej Plenkovic, I can kind of imagine Plenkovic pinched Beros and told him bravo Willy now you've shown yourself to be one of us. And the second question to be asked, does Willi Beros and Andrej Plenovic have the trust of HDZ parliamentary representatives? It is, because in your ranks, all of these are air-conditioned and homeless people unable to perform their own control role that the Croatian Parliament as a legislative body should have over the work of the entire government. And when I said that none of you had any worries or brains, I didn't insult you with it, I just pointed out the fact that with all of you, Andrej Plenkovic rules as if you were dolls from the end. All the objections we have discussed today can be divided into two categories. One question is, is Willy Berosh a corrupt minister? To answer that question, we need to implement a reform of the judiciary before that, it is one of those reforms that will also never be implemented while HDZ is the authorities. And the second category is the second group of questions is Willy Beros an incompetent minister who does his job badly? None of you respected HDZ representatives are interested in any of the objections, you do not care if these objections are highlighted whether they belong to one or the other of these two categories. That is not of interest to Andrej Plenkovic, he is more concerned at the moment that citizens of voters, the media, and after the entire campaign, after the force and the machinery attached to that drip and all the financial resources spent, no one can remember the name of his main candidate. These are concerns that plague the Prime Minister and the government as a whole. And what did we do about a vote of no confidence? We were dealing with issues about how vaccination is organised, for example, and how the health care system functions as a whole. So vaccination works the way the entire country functions unorganized and over the line. And this best shows the example of Iskra Primorac, Director of Regos and member of the KBC Governing Council. She showed a typical HDZ behavior. So, first we do, and then the rest of us, if he stays. And fortunately now that we are no longer in a situation where the availability of vaccines depends on our lives because that would prove that the Croatian system is a pure wild west in which those who have the opportunity and power can come to protection, and the rest of them are not available. And when we talk about the availability of other services, when we talk about the fact that a large number of our citizens haven't even performed diagnostic checks, that they've been cancelled therapy, that they've been canceled operations, so Willy Beros didn't even deal with it because he doesn't care. Why? Because solving these issues and problems cannot achieve what has been achieved by the propaganda shown every day on those unnecessary, long-term and empty presses. And when we talk about reforming complete health, when we talk about debt recovery to large-scale drugs, when we talk about a different organisation of hospital work and even issues of ownership, for 6 years, Andrej Plenkovic has not found a minister who would be competent and who would be able to accept such a task at all. Six years. Well, they won't find him now. And let's not fool ourselves with this reform will never be implemented by the HDZ government. It will be welcomed by a system of design and implementation of another government that will not be composed of HDZ. And since you've made a lot of promises today, we're going to give ourselves the right to ask you every little bit of the HDZ with the reform where it's stuck? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50288	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, distinguished representative Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50289	Thank you, dear Vice President. Article 236 or 8 have been injured, in which the other MPs are truly offended and humiliated by the MPs. I was already responding when Mrs. Dalia Oreshkovic waved her fingers and looked at the right side and said that HDZ's representatives here were corrupt. Tell me who, when and for what? You're so brave and very moral, and you've bowed down for one account in JANAF and literally kneeled to get that job. So much for your morale.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50290	Okay, that was a replica. You're getting a warning. The next violation of the Rules of Procedure is the distinguished representative Ljubica Lukačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50291	Thank you, Vice President. Article 238 has been injured since colleague Dalia Oreskovic really insulted us HDZ parliamentary representatives that we are corrupt, homeless people I ask you nicely do not do it again, and I ask you to warn your colleague by warning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50292	The following breach of the Rules of Procedure is the honourable representative of Ante Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50293	Article 238 of my colleague, Oreshkovic, I didn't mean to answer, but I don't understand where that evil came from and where that need for insult came from. So, some typical HDZ behavior. And what are you, a moral measure? The two jobs you've been doing in your life as a lawyer and at the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest, one of which was solved by your husband, the other by your father-in-law. Is that nepotism and corruption? And now you're a moral unit, and all these people are corrupt? I don't understand where you're from, where you feel the need to be able to deliver to me or anyone else here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50294	Okay. Replica Goran Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50295	Excuse me, did you give the warning or not?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50296	You're not the judge. They just warned on your... No, I didn't say a warning because they warned of your insult. [[Intruder Oreshkovic: I can't hear you, it's microphonery.]] They warned of your insult. [[Orešković: No, I wonder if you gave the honourable representative a warning?]] I won't discuss it with you. They warned of your insult. Here you are, the esteemed representative Ivanovic. Ivanovic replica. He gave up. Next individual debate...... I'm giving you a third warning and taking away your words. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] I'm giving you a third warning by taking away your words until the end of the debate. Josip Boric, a respected representative. Here's the next individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50297	Thank you very much, Vice President. Here's some liveliness, almost until the end of the debate. Dear colleague Oreshkovic has run out of words and opportunity to speak to us, but what will I do? Our lawyer doesn't understand the rules or the rights of this House in which morals are fiercely represented, and we see that morals simply do not exist. Let's say the President of the Committee for the Conflict of Interests of the former in his club can have people who have more professions, known conflicts of interest and to my question whether it bothers the saying not to bother. So that's what we have to tell the citizens that they understand, but I'm going back to this topic, and that's the subject of a proposal to raise the question of trust to Mr. William Beros, the Minister of Health. We were sitting in this House about six months ago, already before the end of the year, and we discussed another topic, and this was about the work of the government of the Republic of Croatia regarding the preparation of the health system of the Republic of Croatia on special circumstances caused by the coronary virus. That was about 10.12 last year. How do those stories go in our opposition? Well, first of all, I don't know how to put it as an impelation, and then after a month, we're looking for a minister's resignation. They put the health issue here first last year, then they're a little late. They saw it wasn't going, then they showed up in the middle of a campaign. We remember when this was. So the campaign starts, here's the SDP putting in a motion for the Minister's impeachment. Does it matter what it says on the paper? No, I don't. We can do what they did almost every day. One little introduction, we take pictures of the situation the way they see it. It doesn't matter what it is, then a little bit about the debts, so a little bit about the breakdown of the vaccination system. And then we realize today, here's the beginning of six months that this is completely out of date, that it doesn't fit the truth at all, it doesn't matter. Especially this part of the breakdown of the vaccination system. So what now? We have to discuss because they have decided to look or in their own way to describe the situation in health care in the Republic of Croatia. They don't always compare us to the worst. Let's look at the other health systems. Remember that debate I sent them all somewhere and what we have in these countries? Again, they have improvements, but they're no better than we are. We know where we are in the EU. We know when we're talking about vaccination, about fighting the coronary virus. We know. I say down here, amongst the best, let's look at all the statistics and the number of infected and the number of deaths per million and I don't know the number of hospitalized and everything else. And the number that somehow had to go through that whole system to be healthy people today. And today, for their sakes, there's nothing wrong, and the election hasn't ended yet, look at the results. Convincedly defeated, convincing even better than in 2017 we have a little more local self-government. They say HDZ is the only one lost, they all win, and they have one. All great, that's what we have to do, says this one nobody from the government congratulated me on a local self-government, they're waiting to be called. What about 269 local self-government and regionals? It is the citizens' trust, whether they see us as those who are responsible for their duties both at the state level and locally or if they didn't see us, they wouldn't get 50% of all local and regional self-government. And that, their replacement thesis, we're all good, and you're not good because you're in HDZ ending up at debates like the lady in front of me, that we don't have spines like this, we don't have heads, we're all corrupt, and they all look good. But what happened? Now they also have a maturity exam on the ground, so we'll all look at what's going on in these local self-governments over some months, how these programs are progressing, how they're progressive and rapidly developing and local self-government, how their powers in the health care area function. And I said today, don't hide behind the government then, no, you're there now, you want to be there and you'll be doing it and we'll watch it here and we'll discuss it and we'll see those public competitions and the ways people are named, whether they're close to them or they're quite professional, etc. Because without experience or any work behind you, you can tell nice stories here. So around the ministers, we haven't tried to be the minister of a difficult system, but right now we know it's wrong. And six months ago it didn't work out, and when we said we were going to get out of this, that we were going to have a tourist season, if we were, I could say for our place, we have indices that promise not 2, 3 times but 10 times that in this time. We've opened up let's tell the tourists in the best possible way and they see it, come and come even more because they want to spend their part of the vacation in this country that they say is never good or not good in any way. Now in that segment, we're the ones who are going to tell these arguments that this is all wrong, outdated and not standing because if it does, and we see that the end of the 31.5 was spent a million and 773 thousand doses of vaccines, that a million and 280 thousand and 300 people were vaccinated first, and 492 thousand others are not being vaccinated, we just have to think about how to get people to be vaccinated. Are those the stories? I'm sure they're not, for sure, but they've always been kind of guided by the fact that it's better that policy than better not, and then they're great. When we talk about the number of infected here's a comparison of 10.12 on that first impeller 4,620 today, 216, if he doesn't understand the numbers, I think we're going in the right direction. No matter what we're going to do with this, we're going to fight for a long, long time. [[Intruder: Thank you very much, time.]] Time. [[Intruder: Third time, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50298	Thank you. The breach of the Rules of Procedure was the first. Here you go, Mrs. Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50299	I thank the chairman. Infringement of Article 238, the MP discussed 4 minutes out of 5 a subject that is not subject to discussion, the way in which the local self-government units were managed by them or them, and given the uniformity and objective of equating the practice of harming the Rules of Procedure when the representative is not talking about the subject, and we have had several examples recently to ask you to apply these same criteria now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50300	Thank you very much, thank you. I gave you a chance to talk, but it's a warning because this isn't about Article 238, because otherwise you should have everyone actually Let's move on, let's move on, Mr. Ante Bacic replica. [[Intruder: What she did wrong, that needs to be explained.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50301	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I would disagree with my colleague, Boric, with my colleague, Bencic, and this exposure if you hadn't stuck to the subject. I welcome you to have just passed the chronology and statistics of this Covid crisis but these are some facts that they do not want to agree with, but want to ignore. I'm just going to suggest that the traffic light is very clear, the National Recovery and Resistance Plan the government has been worried about providing 2.5 billion kuna. When we look at only the number of mobilized healthcare professionals, when we look at the funds paid for the recovery, the plan to pay off the wholesales, 200 million kunas for overtime, when we see a joint public procurement that will ensure a deficit, i.e. which will provide certain resources to save and what you have mentioned the number of vaccines and this good number of vaccinations and that tourist season will exist. And when we look at all these elements, we see what the opposition tells us. I don't think we've heard any concrete suggestions and just run away from this one. Statistics... [[Intruder: Time, excuse the weather.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50302	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50303	Thank you very much, Comrade Bacic, we will refuse this wish tomorrow. They'll come around here about 50 or so because many of them are unhappy with the election results, many have gone badly and simply behave exactly as we expected when we started this mandate, and that's what I often talk about as a coalition of destroyers who always have the need to bring down something. Now we're gonna watch them build where they got the chance. And as for vaccination, we said 55% to 30.6., we're somewhere over 40% now, so we still have to vaccinate about 500-600 thousand people with these doses that we get a week that's much and multiple bigger than it was in the 1st, 2nd and 3rd months, and we know the reasons for that, we're going to achieve that goal of ours. Everything else is back to the minister who has to carry out a certain health reform so that these problems that are visible and we don't run away from them. But tearing down the minister so they can tell themselves what they're saying to us today isn't the way to such a reform, I don't think.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50304	Time. Excuse me, time. Mrs. Branka Juričev Martinchev. ... Glausine. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50305	Thank you. Mr. Borić, a colleague, since everything works great, no system was missing, there is no mistake at all if you can please explain to me, I am here vaccinated as a representative in the Croatian Parliament through an action that was carried out there. Today, the minister also boasts that digital Covid certificates are being made today. They're not working. Here, I tried, not once, not another time, so I called my doctor and said you weren't in the central system with the second dose, but only with one. If it doesn't work here for those of us who have been vaccinated here through this system by the ministry, surely at some lower local levels it's doing great. Please explain to me that it's not the minister, nor anyone else, but someone else because everything works great, just please tell me who's responsible.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50306	Thank you very much. Excuse me, sir, there was one debate while you were waiting here between Mrs. Bencic and me. This debate concerned the following matters regarding Article 238 and whether someone adhered to the subject or did not adhere to the subject. I told Mrs. Bencic that if every time someone didn't stick to the subject that I intervened, I'd just keep doing it. Mrs. Bencic would say you're right, but that doesn't require a warning and I have to give it to Mrs. Bencic, so I'm withdrawing my notice. I take it back, but next time you're out of the picture, you know what my answer will be. Do we agree? Do we agree? You're wrong because I never do that, but the truth Mr. Boric was speaking for a while off topic. Now every time someone talks for a while off topic, I'm gonna have to give a warning. Do we agree? Do we agree? Okay. All right. Okay, we agree. So now you don't have a warning because you were right, and every time you come here you'll be talking off the subject by which sentence you'll get a warning. ... Let's move on. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Ms Branka Juričev Martinchev [[/Intruder: Instead of one ten.]] And I'm sorry for the answer. [[/Intruder Boric: Can I now?]] You're right, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50307	This was obviously a lost minute madly given that the reminder of the day, taken you still found that I was speaking beyond topic. I didn't speak at all off topic, but I connected a little what happened. What happened with this desire to recall the minister and that's allowed in political speech. [[Don't. Mr. Boric, let's not...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50308	Mr. Boric, I've come here on half of yours, and I have to, I have to believe the words of counsel. Now you're telling me the opposite.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50309	I'd give her her warning back, but good.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50310	Let's go now... to go to the polls whether it's a warning or not, but please respond. [[You don't understand.]] Answer the replica. Answer the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50311	Here's the answer to Mrs. Glamuzini. So I don't think this remark of yours stands. This system worked. If he's working today and he's having some problems, we have some time to fix it to get absolutely all the data in and we all get this digital passport and start travelling normally if we want to do the same thing as we expect many others from other countries to travel towards us. I don't know where they got their systems. But apparently when we say we're among the first, I trust the minister. Why wouldn't you trust him? Well, I guess we have this desire to do it and that it works for us and that the most important part of the year is where we have to realize the activities and revenues we need and I have no doubt about it. As was the problem with this cepis platform, it works. And now if someone can't get into it, then let them try to figure out a way to do it, which I'm gonna do, I think. If we're all good at everything, I don't know.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50312	Time. Mrs. Branka Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50313	Thank you very much, Your Honor. You told your colleague Boric, and we really know very well that we are on a scale among the European Union countries by a number of indicators. Among other things, we know that we are one of the countries that is least unique to health, which means that we are the least burdening our citizens. Now the proposer says that the contributions are 21 billion, that our costs are 34 billion. There's a safe space for rationalizing and optimizing costs. However, we certainly can't cut costs by 34 billion to 21. I asked the promoter, we don't know how to answer. Have you figured out how they plan to come from 34 billion to 21 billion? Increase health care exposures, which means additional burden on citizens, reduce salaries to healthcare professionals, or ban extremely expensive medicines oncology patients.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50314	Thank you very much. Answer Mr. Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50315	Thank you very much, colleague. If you expected them to answer, they wouldn't because they had experience in power. We know what they were doing. I remember. I was sitting here. They first raised the percentage of health contributions, so it lasted a few months or a year and then returned because they realized they had made a problem. Then they pulled me thinking and HZO out of the treasury and said let it work on its own. We are in that system now, but obviously we have a problem and, of course, we expect both the Minister and the Government to take certain moves which is not the reason that every problem we've seen has informed us that something has not been obtained immediately is the Minister's fault, it needs to be replaced because it's the perfection we're looking for. But there are no such problems except in Croatia. Nowhere, not in any county. Ask the mayors where they're in charge, there's no problem at all if they're from the SDP. If it's HDZ, it's all you want. Just bad stories for me and I think this is going to be rejected tomorrow. The minister will continue his work and I think he has a place to do what he promised, and that's what we're going to look at in the coming times and periods and we expect it to be.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50316	Thank you, thank you, Mr. Boric. Well, I think we've got it figured out, now every one of you who talks partly off topic is going to get a warning, and you know who you talk to later, Mrs. Bencic. Let's move on, Mr. Erik Fabianic, on behalf of the promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50317	The Honorable President, the Honorable Ministers, the honourable MPs, so what function is to speak on behalf of the promoter after speaking to some MP rather than correct certain false allegations which have been made, and about the topic, or the debate that was given, but whether or not he followed the subject, because it is stated that, let's say, the elections were won okay, but in particular in Lopar, but in Lopar he beat Zlatko Komadina did not beat Gary Cappelli. Here's a clean one. Under two, below two less than two [[Intruder: Mr. Erik Fabianić, we are already at the border.]] Two, but I look back on what my predecessor said. [[Intruder: We are already at a border outside the topic.]] We're good to go back on the subject. [[Intruder: But we are already at a border outside the topic.]] We're back on the subject. [[But we're already at the border, I'm warning you.]] We're back on the subject. [[I warn you, I warn you, it's just a warning, let's move on.]] So on May 26th, I celebrated a year of victory over the crown because there is talk of a political pamphlet here. [[/Intruder: That's right.]] If you're looking at the headlines on May 24, 25, 26, then you'll see that the HDZ government beat the crown a year ago. If she beat the crown a year ago why she's in this debate right now, she's talking about how many people we have today, yesterday and the day before, when we beat it a year ago, so who are you lying to, who are you lying to? We won a year ago. Was that a political pamphlet? Obviously not, obviously not. Well, that's why you won the election because you won the crown a year ago. It's been nice writing in your headlines. Is that right? Okay, okay, but only the opposition writes political pamphlets, and cheating on the public who otherwise can be a crime is not. But those are the Prime Minister's words that the crown was defeated a year ago, and someone probably advised him to say so. Either he's got bad advisors or he's guilty of it. Here, so much to start with.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50318	Thank you very much. Mrs. Rada Boric, individual debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50319	... [[Speech is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50320	A microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50321	... in countries and with minor problems with the management of the Covid-19 crisis and with a smaller number of deaths here we boasted that our number of infected has fallen, here we have already heard data that or at 15, I have data on 14 places in the world by the mortality of Covid on a million inhabitants. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] But also in those countries with minor problems with Covid or with minor health affairs, the ministers are leaving. They're leaving willingly, but this isn't about Minister Beros. And why not? This is about not only the Ministry of Health, but also the Government. The health ministry has always been left to itself, and ministers have full autonomy. Minister Willi Beros is the first health minister in history to whom the government has taken autonomy by adding in April 2020 to the crisis headquarters of the same authority the health minister has under the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases. About constitutional problems related to itself, the formation of crisis headquarters has already said its own. So the fact that the epidemic is managed by a special government body where the minister is just a wheel, and that's the one that's the most decent person who at least speaks, thank you for asking, the fact is that first of all, and who's running the headquarters is the MUP, find another country here has been said that we don't have a curfew. So what's not at stake here and things have changed, we're being told today that this debate here is pointless. It's pointless, too, because in the way he knew it, he knows how to say it yesterday, the prime minister said if it's free today. So, there's so much respect for opposition as you didn't respect us when we didn't make proposals, I was here saying, and he was a minister, that in a situation where we're not dealing with the crisis, you don't share the responsibility and you don't deal badly with the crisis. But it seems that HDZ also likes to be a loser, so he likes to declare it a victory over the crown, but he also loves it when he's a loser. What's here and my question, and I couldn't ask the minister, and I'm glad he's here, so in a situation like this where he doesn't have autonomy himself here, he's probably supposed to be hanging out like Pedro, because if the fact that the minister signed a contract last year with Cupris for the vaccine platform, which is, we've all witnessed and there's been a total failure here, the minister has not been called by command responsibility. So he was not named by command but was as a person who eventually had private motives to sign such a contract with the owner of Vinko Kojundzic. Due to Kojundzic and former HDZ director Veseslav Bergman, UskoK entered the HZO in 2009 and searched all contracts signed with the IT company related to Kojundzic. This happened after a series of texts written by journalist Natasa Škaričić and we know how it all ended. The truth is that God Kojundzic was then only the owner of the IT company. In any other country, publication of such documentation would mean the end for a political official. Bergman was eventually replaced by Milinovic, but also by a more serious USKOK investigation. I am now interested in whether we really needed to do two programs, which the minister made a post-festum about at the same time, literally ordering two programs at the same time. But as we know in Croatia, things are quickly forgotten and the HDZ is certainly counting on it. So, of course, this information system of the same gentleman was able to move to Bosnia in part, whose health debts we also pay for. So, why in a year did Kuspis get the resources to make even two information systems to register people's vaccinations? We never got that answer, and why they were both used in the same situation. Certainly Minister Beros is the last HDZ to come to the stalking relationship of the HDZ administration with the concerned Mr. Kujundzic. Nothing's new and nothing surprises us. The rest of Minister Beros or left, if anyone will investigate whether a software handover has been made. That's what we're interested in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50322	Thank you very much. Now it's Mr. Goran Ivanovic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50323	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the distinguished ministers with the associate. Here I am, as a parliamentary representative and as a responsible man, will first invite all citizens of the Republic of Croatia to split. It's the only way to resist this monster that's hit us in the last and a half years. If it is the right opposition to attack Minister Beros, then allow me to spend these four, five minutes defending the same minister not as an outsider as Mrs Oreshkovic says that she also has some pathological hatred for HDZ, I don't know why she carries it in herself. But that's her problem she's gonna have to deal with. I spent half the time as a man who was Chief of Staff of Osijek-Baranja County and worked very closely with Minister Beroshe, and I spent half the time here in the Croatian Assembly listening to all these people who, apart from honoring exceptions, had no contact with the Corona virus at all, nor the system as he should have been set up, whether he was well set up. I think the health system in the Republic of Croatia when it comes to the corona being set up perfectly. I will again speak through the example of the Clinical Hospital Centre in Osijek, which was already declared a respiratory centre for the east of Croatia at the end of January 2020. Now imagine a clinical hospital center set up with all those departments that have to be pre-reformed and become something that doesn't even know what's at that point. There, somewhere in early March, comes to Osijek Mr. Minister Willi Beroš and brings his people who further educate the Director of the Clinical Hospital Centre and all his staff on how to put themselves in conditions and situations for which no one really knew how to develop and how to deal with it at all. As for the things here and the meals that were really brought out, one of the dangerous thesis and I'm going to repeat it, there's no way I'm not going to do it again was by Mr. Peja Grbin who told Mr. Djakic that he was lucky to be HDZ and that he was a parliamentary representative, so there he was saved himself and others who weren't HDZ and parliamentary representatives died. That's dangerous weights. Let's not play games. We can outsmart the position, the opposition, but let us not use the Croatian Parliament's pay phone for such dangerous thesiss that simply do not stand, but are not suitable for the man who represents and leads the opposition in the Croatian Parliament at the moment. County hospitals, we talked very little about them here today, played a very important role in the fight against the corona virus. County hospitals may be expenses and certainly are. Well, it's all the cost of living today, but we all like to say that human health doesn't have a price. And indeed human health has no price. So these little hospitals have played an important role in this whole process that's been going on for 15 months now. Therefore, I would like to thank, of course, all health care professionals, people who have sustained enormously in this time, all the people who have been in the system of defence against the coronary virus, what they have done and what they are doing in order for Croatia to still be in numbers somewhere. Therefore, the respected ministers for me were, or for me, and now as you were for those children a hero, not in the sense that I was raising you, that I wanted to make some kind of contact or relationship with you here. That's what we do through what the service is, rather than really thank you for everything you've done, and that's really superhuman efforts that you and your people have made in the ministry, and also the whole system of health care, and I hope if there's anything that's been mentioned here and you said yourself that you're here first, that you're not afraid of anything, so let the bodies do their job, so if anything comes up, then you're willing to take any responsibility and sanctions. I think in this fight against the coronary virus we have shown that the Croatian health system is something that can be reorientated quickly, something that can be adjusted quickly. Why? Because he's got top experts. And so that's how it's going to be, and here's a lot of happiness for you, of course, in further work. [[Intruder Radin: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50324	Thank you. You don't have a replica. And you have a replica of that. Ms. Maja Grba Bujevic No, Hope Murganic first. [[Upadica Ivanovic: Nada first Murganić.]] You're right.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50325	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, it is saddened to hear on several occasions this debate, which criticises the health system under the leadership of Minister Beros, but I do not know this for the third or fourth time with the same topic. He says we're not cooperating. It is saddened that this kind of pandemic, this kind of disease crisis that has affected the whole world in which richer countries are hard to deal with, is used for persistent criticism and defilement not only of the minister, but of the entire government and of all the people who work in this fight. So, I come from the carlova County where we're third of the fibrillation, where the vaccination system works, where we're inoculating a younger age, where our citizens can choose which vaccine they will be vaccinated with and the applications are functioning. I believe that's the way it is with you. So who organized it? That incompetent minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50326	Thank you. Thank you very much. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50327	Thank you very much for asking. Here at the beginning of this debate I invited people to split, citizens of the Republic of Croatia. That's right, if we could get to these numbers that we're now talking about whether it's the first dose or the second dose, certainly not that the system is so bad that it doesn't even work that it doesn't actually exist. That certain things might have happened, so, dear God, I think this is something that happens the first time and let's be honest isn't every time consistent with what we expect. After all, we ordered something from someone, so if he didn't manage to do something right, so we can't blame the Minister of Health for that and say that he's the one who should be... and that's why he's going to have to resign. I also think of it as a man that Minister Beros, in accordance with the conditions in which we found ourselves who first hit us, reacted perfectly, reacted supremely. Of course not he himself as a man, but the whole system he's headed for.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50328	Thank you. Mrs. Maja Grba-Bujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50329	Thank you, Chairman. You, as head of the local headquarters that you have been at the head of for the longest time, may still explain why you had to introduce yourself to the health minister who manages the health care crisis, why the National Staff had to introduce the entire story because of all the answers to the comprehensive, so tell a few people what you did not turn out to be taken over by the Minister of Health and Home Affairs, where civil protection belongs.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50330	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50331	Thank you very much. Well, I'd say it's a normal sequence. So that's why civil protection headquarters are set up both on regional self-governments, local self-governments, and at national level, and it's perfectly natural that, of course, it's the police minister who's going to be watching over the system, but he's not going to implement what's most important here. Minister Bozinovic did not make decisions concerning health care. They were brought by the profession as well as by me at the headquarters of Osijek-Baranja County. The whole story was run by the Institute of Public Health who was the only competent to say what he was proposing, and it was up to us to implement these measures that the Institute of Public Health carried out amongst... to spend them and to do as little damage as possible or to compensate them in the least possible way. [[You don't understand.]] Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50332	Thank you. Mrs. Katica Glamuzina.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50333	Thank you. So it's a similar question to your colleague Boric. The Ministry of Health organised a vaccination in the Croatian Assembly for parliamentary representatives in February. We are now in June still not recorded until the end in the central database of the Ministry of Health and cannot be obtained digital confirmation. Now I've tried Mr. Minister twice, it doesn't work. I called my doctor and she told me why. The system's not working. Is that what I'm supposed to answer for? Am I in charge of that system? You're singing the horror minister. I agree that Mr. Beros is a better minister than his predecessor for miles. Is he good enough? Well, if it was good enough, I guess the system would work. Heroes don't run away from responsibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50334	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50335	I don't think the hero escaped. He's still here with us at the Croatian Parliament. Of the 41 signatories of this document you're all here on the 10th. So I don't know who's escaped, who's left. As far as this question of yours is concerned, I can't answer that. I don't know if the platform can make that happen. I didn't ask through the e-citizen system for myself so I couldn't talk about it. But here, there's a minister you can always ask him and you can check.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50336	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. It is now up to Mrs Martina Vlasic Iljkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50337	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. Minister Willi Beroš has on several occasions found himself in the presence of many people and publicly violated epidemiological measures at the same time as the public was banned from visiting hospitals, nursing homes, children's homes and older people. There's no excuse. If the minister prescribes measures, he is obliged to follow them and to be an example to others. The Koronavirus pandemic has changed the lives of all citizens, and it has particularly affected the lives of users in homes for older and powerless, family homes, homes for adults, rehabilitation centres or foster families and other forms of care for children and other users. From the spring of 2020, visitation restrictions have been introduced until a complete visit ban, and communication between users and families has been reduced to the necessity where the family could deliver home supplies. A smaller number of users can communicate via video calls and cell phones since they are older people, who because of their illness and age are limited in the use of modern technology. We also witnessed that institutions had their own rules despite restrictions and allowed visits to a particular group of people, visits to ministers and their suites, while other people were subject to strict epidemiological measures. Users did not have adequate psychological help and support since there is insufficient professional staff in homes. In complaints, the Ombudsman’s mother - in - law specifically addressed the children of her elderly and powerless parents who could not see their neighbors dying. When special measures could then be organised in the form of protective clothing, equipment for at least some time so that people can say goodbye to their loved ones. The lack of empathy and understanding of people's suffering have been a problem from the very beginning of the ministry, which was required to ensure under certain rules and measures and the stay of parents with sick children in hospitals. Very often in his responses to the poor organisation of the health system in hospitals, the minister calls for directors and their responsibility for management. We were witnesses and different actions in the insurance of parents in the hospital with a sick child in Klaic's hospital, for example parents could not stay with their children and protest, and for example in the hospital in Rijeka or Koprivnica the parents were provided a 24-hour stay with their sick children. In one case, the child aged 4 months who was fed exclusively with breast milk and was admitted to the hospital for heart surgery to the mother was not allowed to stay with the child or to visit or send breast milk. Isn't it sad that parents couldn't be there for their children when they needed it most? The concern of the mental health of citizens during the pandemic has been left by the National Civil Protection Centre and Minister Beroš since the very beginning of the pandemic, which is incomprehensible because it is a doctor and should be aware of the importance of mental health for the general psychophysical health of the individual. At the time of lockdown, even the minister recommended new skills rather than so much burden with the news that was not expected because the situation was uncertain and people in such a situation are burdened with their existential issues. Citizens need equal services and health care regardless of what part of Croatia they are in, and it is the sole responsibility of the Minister for being unequal, as directors treat the policies of the Ministers who are left behind. We expect from the minister the management of the system, not fire extinguishing, in violation of the rights of patients to available health care. If, according to some of your allegations, you feel that this discussion of some of the times has been delayed, you may learn something on this example. But it is hard to believe because you do not see the difficulties and opportunities for growth and development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50338	Thank you, too. Mr. Rade Simičević has his own debate now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50339	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here I think that for this pay phone, anyone can express their thoughts. I'm really not gonna call anyone to talk if they say anything like it's a distinguished representative of the coat of arms, but let it go to his soul. I find the proposal to launch the issue of the Commission of the extraordinary health minister, Mr. Willy Beros, unfounded and unfounded, and there is no reasonable basis for a vote of no confidence, and I will try to say that in a few things. The Republic of Croatia was found in the incomparable pandemic Covida-19 and the Government of the Republic of Croatia did its utmost to ensure that the health care system was sustainable, that everything could be done in order to provide services and to protect the population from the virus. While for some virus, the government also obtained equipment for the protection of all people, especially those who provided a service in the health system. So if we hadn't had the equipment, if we had listened to some other question about what all the consequences would be. The hospital system has also been reorganised so that all patients who needed hospital treatment can be taken care of, but the medical care organisation for all other patients. Minister Beroš showed exceptional energy and visible emotion in establishing a system in the emerging situation that has been recognised by all the Croatian public. Enough respirators were obtained, enough beds and all those in need of protection and care received it and during this time over 32,000 patients were taken care of. In such a situation, no patient group is negligible, and special attention is paid to the treatment of Covid-patients. In such conditions, it should certainly be pointed out that the Croatian health system has proved more resilient and effective, and with all the difficulties imposed by the unknown infectious disease continued with regular action. The National Cancer Programme has been adopted by 2030, which will improve comprehensive monitoring of prevention and treatment of malignancies, and steps are made to equip and provide the most modern forms of healthcare. While in other countries of the European Union systems were shooting, as we watched horror, scenes from horror films our health system responded in a very good way to the challenge. Our healthcare professionals from the directors of hospitals, doctors, nurses, technicians and all staff in the system headed by Minister Beros have done an excellent job and thanks to all of them for the superhuman efforts they have done to preserve the health system. The Government of the Republic of Croatia responded in a timely and successful manner to the increase in costs due to the pandemic and provided 1.9 billion kuna for the last redistribution within the system. And speaking of debts, it is important here to distinguish the total and the debt, and it is not true that the commitments amounted to 4.1 billion kuna, but 3.3 billion kuna. Despite the difficulties in supplying vaccines due to delays in delivery from the manufacturer, the situation is now stabilised and the Republic of Croatia has ordered 8 million 855 thousand 550 doses of vaccines from all manufacturers and now anyone who wishes can be vaccinated can be vaccinated. Each county in its own way finds an optimal way to solve this problem. By pointing one finger, and you need to know that the other four fingers you've pointed at someone else. Minister Beroš is a responsible man and has never said that he is not responsible for any actions that are impossible to avoid in such crisis situations. Mr. Beroš is a man who thinks about the moral consequences of his actions and has earned our respect by his work.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50340	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Mr. Simicevic. Thank you very much. [[Upadica Šimičević: Thank you again to all healthcare professionals.]] We have... Mr. Kuzmanic's first replica. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50341	Dear fellow Shimičević, I would like to agree with you in part. And I think Mr. Berosh was doing his job in those frames that he could do. But apparently Mr. Beros doesn't have the support of the Prime Minister, Mr. Plenkovic, and that's why our corona results are so bad. As much as you try to show it in one way, the facts speak differently. We're 15th in the world at the mortality rate. Why? Is that why anyone has to be held accountable? We got a vaccine among the last ones. And I'm going to tell you, right now as this session lasts on the 10ths, and maybe hundreds of our citizens have called our club and reported that over a year I can't get to regular tests, or oncology patients, or other patients. Our health system is just ahead of collapse. Someone has to answer for it, and if it's not Mr. Beros' responsibility, then it's the responsibility of your Prime Minister, Mr. Plenkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50342	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50343	I thank my esteemed colleague that I am not a health expert. I worked at school, and I also know that at the beginning of the Coronacrisis there was such a fuss that there were no protective masks at school, there was no means at school, there was nothing at school, and anyone who was well-intentioned who went to school could see that it was all there. What I as a layman can see, unfortunately, and I've had fatalities, and I've witnessed events, but whenever I came to the hospital I've never been rejected. The patient was always taken care of. I never came across anyone saying there was no protection equipment against Covid's disease. Is the health care system in crisis? Well, that's what Minister Beros said many times that he needed reform. My grandfather told me one occasion that the health care system was the best in 41, and we are now in 2021, and unfortunately we always stand.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50344	Thank you very much. Thank you. Mrs. Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50345	Thank you very much. In your debate, you well listed a series of activities carried out by the ministry headed by Minister Berosha regarding the control of the pandemic, but at the same time also the protection of the health system from so-called. A collapse that our opposition so badly desires and calls out. But of course it won't happen. It's all expensive play. They know they can't change the minister because they didn't even choose them, like we didn't choose when they were in power in their position. But this is an opportunity for them to say they don't know what they want because for a time they wanted it to be a lockdown, they wanted it all closed, they wanted strict measures, they wanted a curfew. When some milder measures were taken, we have the least measures in Europe introduced then of course they were against it because they want to be just against it. I'm wondering if he'll admit to the promoter that he's fucked up and this impeachment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50346	Thank you, Mrs. Murganic. Thank you. Excuse me, but it's time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50347	Thank you, dear colleagues. Well, yeah, at first when Covid showed up, then some of them said it was cavities again, that it was just a cold, that we needed equipment, that we needed this, that we needed it. However, it turns out that all those who said so were wrong. You said other services besides Covid patients, that I have data here that 29 thousand and 270 patients were ordered in 2020, which is slightly less than in 2019 when 30 thousand 856 patients were ordered. So in a situation that no one could prepare for, in a situation that no one could foresee, we must once again commend here the health care system and Minister Beros and all the employees. Thanks to employees, doctors, nurses, the system was able to be maintained and provided all the services needed.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50348	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. Thank you. And now it's Mrs. Andreja Maric's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50349	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, here from the ruling option I am asking you today after this very dynamic day that you really no longer express what we have not said. So we haven't called Corona, she's been mentioned on your side a few times. We didn't call for a lockdown, we didn't call for a curfew, especially as our colleague said one morning, one afternoon, the other. So please, if we're trying to be reasoned, so are you. Please, if we're trying to be reasoned, so are you. Furthermore, we also call for vaccination. The vaccination problem was. Some things worked out, but there was a problem. And don't put anything in our mouth we didn't say. So we're calling for vaccination, and we're actually all convinced that this is the best tool to get rid of the pandemic as soon as possible, so I'm asking you for an honest approach. As for the vaccination plan and the protocol, we started at 12 months with vaccination, and remember when the vaccination plan was established on the HZZO pages on February 14th. Am I right? And at the government on February 10th. That was the revised plan after all those problems. Yeah, well, there was no protocol nice please. So, you heard everything we said. Please accept our suggestions. We were very well-intentioned. There have been mistakes, we learn from all mistakes especially you who are in position and give a little improvement in communication with those who are the foundations of the health system and who have brought this pandemic out on their backs, and these are health and health care professionals. Bring in valid norms, admit what's done in hospitals. You know we're running from one construction site to another, and doctors are also burdened with primary health care. It's about the position of the sisterhood that I'm not talking about. One of your State Secretarys was at a meeting of the Health Committee and we talked about it in detail and give it and run that part. As for the covid of the supplement, you transferred the responsibility based on your memo to the director, and the memo was unsettled and you know that there were problems about it, that they were embarrassingly low figures so here's to admit the bar and that part. The reasons why sisters and doctors leave the Republic of Croatia are in the first place working conditions, the second is the retreading of the system and then the wages. So, what does that tell you? So we have a problem with the system that needs to be reorganized. Solve the doctor's representativeness, it's the same problem you haven't solved. We talked about it a lot. Form working groups for each of these items we have presented for primary health care, emergency medical care, hospital care, etc. Include the profession, include the scientists, include us from the opposition. So we all want this health care system to improve. The Croatian medical chamber also pointed out to you what is not good, he showed you Kohom, patients' associations pointed to you. Here I was telling you about this example of this nebulose to eliminate diabetes, or reduce the number of strips. So let's include patient associations. You know what HZZO's interpretation is? So in the next few years, he solves the problem and hires the profession. We're gonna wait a couple of years for that? So at the end of all these stories, we have no illusions that at this vote tomorrow someone will take your position at least temporarily, at least tomorrow, depending on what the prime minister decides. But once again I invite you to hear a lot of good suggestions, a lot of incentives for reform, a lot of quality solutions from different clubs, especially the opposition. We had several meetings of the Health Committee with specific topics, with concrete suggestions, concrete solutions, so please listen to some of this and what we asked you to do. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50350	You have two replicas. Mrs. Grbin. Mr. Grbin, I apologize.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50351	It's all right. Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues, you pointed to an interesting contradiction. So, at one point they say you minorized the corona, at the second they say the whole time you were looking for too strict measures. They say one thing, and they say the other. Well, he can't... We're either minor or we're exaggerating. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He can't do both. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50352	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50353	That's exactly what I'm That's what I did in my previous presentation and now I'm saying that here I am now not naming again my colleagues who are, a colleague who has mentioned this to us many times. To call in one morning, and this afternoon we want human rights, and I don't know what. So I think we responsibly detected where the problems were, we said it was going well, the pandemic was unknown. We've all given you support. So, well, in that sense, we've been giving you support. We didn't know what we were up against, but then after months of seeing where the problems were, and when we showed you, we pointed out, we pointed out where to improve things didn't work out. So, the headquarters had and you know very often a double measure, very often a discriminatory decision, we talked about a traffic light, we talked about a whole set of epidemiological measures for each region in particular, etc. And none of this was accepted from us as opposition, nor from the profession, nor from the scientific advice, nor from a large part of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50354	Thank you. Matko Kuzmanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50355	Thank you, Vice President. I think we've all agreed here both by ruling and opposition that our health care is not at what level it should be or what it was at. We're all aware of that. The causes may not even be. There are only two solutions. One minister says it can be fixed, and the Prime Minister does not give him that support. Either the minister doesn't know or the government doesn't give him that support, and the fact I can back up with that here today, dozens of people have called maybe some other clubs here in the Parliament by simply reporting the problems they have. I can't come up for regular tests, so cancer patients, patients. Our health care system just isn't good. Someone has to answer for that. You're a health care professional, and I think you understand what I'm talking about. I'm more inclined to think that's the government's problem. The government doesn't give the Minister what could be done.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50356	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50357	Here I am in one of my presentations and said, so the minister is at the head of his team, having some kind of enthusiasm, a desire to do something, or at first. And now the question is whether the minister as a minister with his team has his own reform plan to improve the health system will not say that nothing is right. At the very end of the line, this health care system is carried by our health and health care professionals. They're the foundation, they're the foundation and they're making a huge effort. But the question is, do you have a set of reforms? Did you put it on the table to the Prime Minister or do you not have it? If you don't have it, then this is all justified what we're talking about, and if you have it and the Prime Minister is holding you back for some reason, if it's local elections, it's this, that's what it is today, and that's what we intend to hear everything you have to say in that sense. So there's two things. Your set of reforms and the prime minister that will allow you to do so or not have allowed you so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50358	Thank you. You don't have any more replicas. It's Mr. Bojan Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50359	... Dear colleagues and colleagues earlier today, I asked Minister Beros why in many birthing centres in Croatia, there is still a ban on escorting women who are going to give birth even though the position of relevant professional organisations such as the World Health Organization, UNICEF and the British Royal Assembly on maternity and gynaecology is clear and unchanged, and it says: "The care of pregnant women and births should take place in conditions that guarantee dignified care with the chosen escort, with the possibility that they will immediately after childbirth get their child into skin contact, that during their stay they will not be separated from the child and that they have all the support for the establishment of breastfeeding." I find it terrible to think that this experience continues to be denied by many births and their chosen companions. Denial does not occur because it is not possible to meet the criteria of security, nor because there is no political will for it. Minister Beros made it clear that the final decision was made by the hospital directors. No, it comes most often because in some maternity homes they simply do not want women who come to give birth to be accompanied by them. The government minister who allegedly cared so much about demographics needed to react more clearly to such bad practices and give clear guidance for action. The minister didn't do it. Of this, it may be even more terrifying to practice the C-section and to separate the mother from the mother from the mother immediately after we had the opportunity to hear much about in the personal testimony of births and reports such as those of the Rod Association. With all the other risks that the C-section carries, it ignores the fact that breastfeeding is a very important epidemiological measure, because the mother’s organism that fights Covid in the organism is triggering an immune reaction that will help her child to cope with the disease. In addition to contributing to the health of the child and experts, mild disease is assumed if the child is infected, saved and the resources of the health system. These are not the only problems in the field of sexual and reproductive health. In a report published at the end of the 4th month last year, the European Parliamentary Forum for Sexual and Reproductive Rights and the International Federation for Planned Parenthood presented the results of two studies conducted in the European Union Member States on the availability of health services in the field of sexual and reproductive health. Data are evidenced of a dramatic decline in the availability of an examination of sexual diseases, pregnancy checks, examinations and screenings for uterus cancer, a decline in availability of pregnancy interruption, a fall in the availability of contraception, an increase in the number of serious complications of untreated gynaecological infections, an increase in the demand for health care services by private persons because public services are not available. Studies also show that even in the pandemic, this affects the most vulnerable groups such as the poor or those living in areas where health services are and otherwise difficult to reach. A similar survey last year was conducted by the Roda Association with similar results. For example, one relevant data from this study suggests that almost 72% of women have been delayed or suspended for the medically assisted fertilisation procedure. It is estimated that this is why about 200 children were born less. The problems that women have encountered in the health system before, such as obstetric violence, have only made the pandemic worse, and it seems to me that there is very little concern about it. Minister Berosch has command responsibility for this. He was warned. He was sent letters about it we talked about here in the Parliament. The health care system should not treat women as insubordinate incubators, but with dignity and concern to which every human being is entitled. I don't think it's the minister's personal position, but a problem the minister didn't offer a satisfactory solution either because he wasn't aware enough, either because he wasn't high enough on the list of priorities. If this Assembly does not deny the confidence of Minister Barroso, I expect the Minister to take adequate steps after this debate to raise the availability of health services in the field of sexual and reproductive health to an appropriate level in accordance with the recommendations of all relevant and professional organisations.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50360	Mr. Brkan Replic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50361	Your Honor, it is very commendable that you advocate the health of women, especially births, but somehow I cannot understand these examples you speak of. Here, I'll tell you my personal experience even though I didn't give birth, but it's my wife. Last June 3rd, she gave birth to our third child, a small Andrija, in KBC Split, at the maternity home. She didn't miss anything in the world. And if I wanted to be with her, I could have been with her, and no one knew I was HDZ, or that I was, then I wasn't a representative or mayor. Everything was in perfect order. She's healthy. The child is healthy, thank God. Everything went great. So the minister is responsible for that, too? Because so many black examples that you have cited I can't believe that's the way it is in all of Croatia, and that's just the way it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50362	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50363	Comrade Brkan, is it because you're not hungry right now that you think there's no hunger in the world? Is it because you have a roof over your head that you don't think there are people who are homeless? ... No, no, no. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'm talking to a colleague now. So, that you have had one positive experience, and this data and this data that comes from research and international and carried out by associations that have not been involved politically for years just means one thing you need to check out your privilege in this company as a colleague of Brkan. Let's think about how other people live in this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50364	Okay, that was two different opinions. Thank you very much. You don't have any more? There were two different opinions. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. It's a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Bourkan, come in. You're right, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50365	Article 238. Dear Mr. Representative Glavasevic has demeaned me by pointing out that I am privileged by something compared to others. I probably am because I'm a elected official. But that my wife has a birthing championship in KBC Split based on where no one knew who she was or what I thought was inappropriate. And with this now, his act has demeaned me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50366	Mr. Brkan, it was a replica. So it's better than me. I'm giving you a heads-up because no one's disrespected you, just someone's talking about research, and you've all been talking about your personal. That's why I said these are two different opinions that are allowed in the Parliament. You don't have to, do you? Okay. Okay. Please, nice! Mrs. Sandra Bencic is now going to speak in front of the Green Left Bloc's Club final. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50367	Thank you. So here's what I want to say, finally on behalf of the club, that it's actually hard to discuss the situation in health when absolutely no argument is made, not even that argument that comes from the citizens themselves and confirms that they don't have access to normal access to health services, I won't take it seriously, they're not taking it at all, but they're giving counter arguments where you're telling citizens that they don't, that they have a completely normal health care service in the last year. I must say, do you understand that these same citizens are listening to you now? And they know they haven't had a normal service in a year. From our colleague here, Mom can't get a month-and-a-half lung scan, and she has post-covid syndrome. A month and a half must wait for a simple X-ray lung. And you'll say okay. Let him pay for it. Some can pay for it, some can't pay for it. But if he pays for it again, he can't get in line with a doctor who's going to analyze it. So people really are in that situation, you have to understand that. These aren't incident situations. It has become a general practice in many of the hospitals in Croatia. And those hospitals aren't covid hospitals. And the question really arises why do they not provide a full range of health care services? I would tell the Ministers that you can't be responsible for any such situation, but when it comes to a system that's completely trapped by your party in a way that every director, but not the Director's Assistant Director, Head of Department, etc. were appointed by party line then he was responsible even for these incident situations because you chose to do so. As proof of this here I will tell you, therefore KBC Zagreb, your biggest KBC member is the director. Also, for the chairman of the Board of Directors in Mercury, you named who? Mislav Herman, we know who Mislav Herman is. Mercury? Who's the director of Mercury Clinical Hospital? Mario Sterešenić. We also have the Dubrava Ivica Luksic case. Who's his name? You named him. Is it from your ranks? It's from your ranks. It's not just a case of course in Zagreb. In Zagreb, I will still list St. A spirit where the director publicly supported the HDZ candidate, one of HDZ's candidates. And of course also in Fran Mihaljevic we have your Alemka Markotic. In Rijeka, the director of the Clinical Hospital Centre is Allen Ruzic, who was thought to be your candidate for mayor of Rijeka. Also in Osijek, KBC director Osijek is a member of HDZ. Sisak hospital is managed by a director who is a member of HSP, however he was also a candidate of course on your list for the County Assembly in 2017. It is also the same case in Čakovec where the director of the hospital is also a longtime member of the HDZ, and we do not have to talk about the General Hospital in Dubrovnik because there is a director there except that a HDZ member has the privilege of, of course, giving services to different members of his family regardless of whether they are resident in the Republic of Croatia or not. So when we have a situation like this to frame the hospital administration on a party line, then you take responsibility for everything that happens in these hospitals or I wouldn't tell you that you're responsible for each of these things. But since you chose such a corrupt clientelet model, then you're responsible for everything that's going on. And I'll say one more thing. Confirmation of how we were able and heard in that video of you talking to the minister with dr. Zadravec last summer when you said not only that you chose, but you said that even the top of the party and we know who the top of the party is most and most dearly chose the way Well, that's the path you chose. [[Intruder Radin: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50368	And now it's Mr. Peja Grbin's turn to speak on behalf of the promoter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50369	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleagues and colleagues. What distinguishes democracy from other systems of government? One but important thing, which is that democracy has an opposition, an opposition as a corrective factor of power, an opposition as part of the structure of the state system that has the task of controlling, controlling power, reacting when the government is not working properly, pointing to its failures and continuously offering different solutions. What does that mean? This means that when the opposition notices that someone in power is not doing a good job, the opposition must react. The opposition has no hands to replace the minister, nor can they have them. Because if there were, then there wouldn't be an opposition, it would be a government. But the opposition has a huge moral and every other responsibility to point out what's going on in each system. We've detected a few things here and I responsibly claim each of them taken for themselves would be enough to recall. Health debt is already a problem. If debts from 2015 to 2021 escalate more than three times, dues, non-payments to those who delivered goods and services do not work seriously. And if these debts result in individual patients being deprived of health care, they are not given medications, then we move from political to another sphere of responsibility. Dear colleagues and colleagues, during this debate, there was a lot of noise. Among other things, it was said that it wasn't true that people had run out of drugs. Don't lie down. I've been looking for a little bit of what the individuals have witnessed, so I'm going to be free to remind you a little bit, and I'm going to use an article from the Index published on April 8th of this year. The Women’s Association of Cancer Patients “All About It” says they have information so far that some patients have received medicines, and some unfortunately have not. A woman from Virovitica who is 45 years old and metastasised lung cancer said the Virovitica Hospital told her that her immunological therapy is delayed until further notice, and that she will call her when she's first on the list. The lady said: “The situation surrounding this medicine should be given every three weeks to one of these treatments. It's been a month and I'm still waiting." The following testimony: "That my wife is an cancer patient. She didn't receive therapy this morning. They told us at the hospital that they would contact us if the medicine came." We heard from another woman, and it was also about an oncological patient who lost her therapy. She ran out of part of her therapy, and they told her she'd call her when the meds came. But those aren't just patients' testimonies. We had testimony and a doctor. I highly doubt the director of KBC Split has any interest in telling the truth, so he said on April 8, 2021 we are beginning to miss some oncological medicines. Dear colleagues and colleagues, not paying debts is bad in itself. That's what the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia said when we asked for a moratorium to be introduced on top and moratorium on loans to those people, especially those people who, because of their material situation, had, for example, lost their jobs because of a covid crisis that they were not able to do. However, when it comes to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, then the rule of debt must be paid back clearly does not apply, nor when this debt default results in people being left without a cure, without therapy, without health care. I could have been rude in my opening debate, but I deliberately refused to do so and compare the situation with the drug with the situation with the purchase of the plane, so I said that it is possible that the state could single out 999m euros for the purchase of state-of-the-art fighter aircraft, and at the same time I apologize, it cannot allocate less money to ensure the adequate functioning of the health system. But I won't say that. The state must provide money for both defence and the health system. But if he can't, and ours obviously can't, then he has to choose priorities. This country has chosen as a priority the acquisition of fighter aircraft and it is a legitimate decision by the government, the Prime Minister, but it is a decision on which every health minister whose patients were left without medication should resign immediately and say if there are no drugs it can't be for planes either, and Minister Beros didn't. Corruption and clientelism in health care. And the more you add than anything we have said about the personneling procedures for the top places in Croatian hospitals. The more you add to that fantastic conversation between Minister and Mrs. Zadarec, which apparently was filmed by someone in the minister's society. He was unauthorized because the conversation did not say that Mrs. Zadravec was being told that it was being recorded, so it is very easy for me not to speak about the moment and when the conversation was made available to the public even though it was good for the public to have the opportunity to hear that conversation, because that conversation reveals a lot. He also finds that the minister has been constantly warned about certain problems in the specific hospital, that he did not care about it, but that the decision on who will lead the individual Croatian hospital is being made at the top, at the top of a political party and the party is called HDZ. So then I guess it also decides who gets certain jobs, whether it's inoculated in the system or in the IT flower system. It doesn't matter. But the fact is that jobs are overpaid and assigned to those who are not qualified for one important criterion are not qualified, but they are linked, either to the minister, or to the HDZ. And finally problems with the vaccination system. Praise the covid passports, and colleague Glamuzina described how it works in practice. Although she was vaccinated, although she has a neat vaccination certificate she can't get a covid passport. It means something in that system isn't working. And you can't hide behind the responsibility of a family doctor, or family medicine doctor. If they did not do their job the ministry was to control, carry out control and ensure that those who have a particular task do so. It's your job, Minister Berosch. Your job. Just like your job the moment you became minister was to run the ministry and ensure everything that the ministry should do. You HDZ gentlemen are boasting that you've done something today. Well, that's your job. The moment you were given responsibility and trust to manage the Government of the Republic of Croatia, you also received a huge task. What do you think you should be praised for doing your job? Do you think we should be happy that you haven't been able to screw up any more so that we don't end up fourth by number of splits than we end up in the end? Do you think that we should be happy that Croatia is 15th in number of deceased of covids per capita instead of being the first on that scale at least? Dear Mr. Minister, in the replica of my colleague, I said one thing, which is that we're being accused at one point that we've minorized the corona. I know I didn't do it at any time. In other news, we were looking for too strict measures. Neither, nor the other, is true. You know what exactly is? It is only true that from the first day of the corona crisis we have been looking for one thing, and these are clear criteria – clear criteria by which decisions will be made for people to know in advance what to do. And not as it happened at the 11th month introduces from today to tomorrow a lockdown, a strict lockdown and that people who were preparing to work on Saturday or Sunday have to destroy their goods because it is not permanent. Every country that keeps to itself a little bit, and I'm sure that Germany keeps to itself has done such things in advance so that people can prepare themselves. If you were waiting for the Day of Remembrance to pass, to pass some internal events and events, then you could give people two more days to prepare but you didn't. You waited for over a month, you waited for the incidence to be among the worst in Europe, and you only reacted from now on. Minister, it's your responsibility! It's your responsibility. With your request, you say we've decided to profit from the crisis. With this request we waited, even though there was pressure on us from the opposition to get up several times earlier with these demands we waited because we felt that the time of crisis was not the time to change the person at the head of the system. But when this person who's headed the system uses the crisis to assign jobs to those who are connected to it, then it's already too much. Then he must react. Then it must be openly said that it is the Coronation of profit, and that those who have done it are the Coroners of profit and should not run from it. That's the facts. They will establish something about it by the Committee for Decision on a conflict of interest, and they will determine something about it. But what we all know now is that it is not normal for someone in 2019 to have 1,000 kunas of traffic and to work in flowering and there is no one employed, and in 2021 they get the job of digitising Croatian hospitals. That respected colleague and colleague is not normal! It's a success that Mask, Jobs and many others could only dream of. All of a sudden, overnight. It is a success that is only possible in Croatia's HDZ. And that's why I told you, and I'm gonna do it again. By your actions you have made Croatia an abnormal country, and may it serve you honor or shame. You will decide for yourselves today, and tomorrow or the day after that Croatian citizens will decide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50370	The replica of Mrs. Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50371	Thank you very much. In fact, you've now summed up everything we've said since the morning, what we've pointed to, and as I've told you, we have no illusions that the ruling will not raise 76 hands and vote what they intend to do. However, the fact is that the minister said at that meeting of the Health Committee that there are reforms he gave to the prime minister on the table, and then the prime minister said that it was not so in the media. So suppose now that there are some reforms, local elections have passed. Since the minister did not address us finally, I was counting on him to address what you think our minister and our resolution ministry will finally start reforming? I think we've been argued, I think we've made a lot of good suggestions. If he didn't have those proposals and solutions, then when are we going to start to improve the health system? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50372	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50373	Dear colleagues, if reforms are certain that no one has seen them and that is the fact. And I'll only end up with one more, and that's not what God gave you to defend you like Plenkovic defended Kujundzic, as he defended Kustević, as Tolusic defended you, and as he then gave them a vertebrae up their ass. That's how it's gonna happen to Berosha. Just remember his morning debate he used to attack all the living, but about Minister Beros, he didn't find a single nice word to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-01-0.u50374	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Tomorrow, on 2 June at 9.30 p.m., the first item of the agenda will be the report on the work of the State Audit Office for 2020 and then at 12 hours of voting. Thank you very much. Goodbye! Session adjourned at 17.35 p.m.
