ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u42844	Ruzica Vukovac will be the position of the National Movement Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u42845	... Given the objectives of the Rural Development Programme for the period 2014-2020, above all, the increase in competitiveness of Croatian agriculture, forestry and processing industries, as well as the improvement of living and working conditions in rural areas in general, while all indicators recapitalising the observed period are talking about the devasted and evicted rural area of Croatia, the question arises, was the previous programme which was well planned, was it well implemented and what actually happened and the objectives remained unfulfilled? [[Specially enabled.]] The current situation we have in agriculture is low income, a constant drop in total added value, a decline in livestock and plant production, an unregulated market, a constant import with a steady increase, insufficient use of resources, a lag behind other Member States in technology and production, we lose 2 to 3 percent of the potential GDP growth annually, and as a consequence of all of the above, we have a depopulation, emigration of young people, high unemployment, unequal regional development, underdeveloped infrastructure, one communal, educational, health, transport, Croatian village is deeply in charge of financial problems. According to EUROSTAT, 30% of the population is at risk of poverty and social exclusion. Of course, mostly in the rural area. No one in the EU has a decline in the production of milk such as Croatia, the area on which agricultural production is taking place, the village is disintegrating and the old, the OPGs continue to fail, the agricultural producer is an increasingly smaller producer and the growing social category. And what do you conclude? Obviously implementation and programming of the second pillar of the CAP are not in line with the promotion of rural development in the Republic of Croatia. I honestly expected that by following the state of play on the ground, the Resort Ministry would make an effort and make a comprehensive and quality analysis of which would be visible where we misturned it. How do we know how to set up a programme for the period from 2021 to 2027 unless we know what went wrong with the programme so far? How dare we design a rural development programme for the future if we constantly deny the cardinal bad situation in the agricultural production and in the Croatian village. If we add to the above all the information that close to 500,000 hectares of pasture or grassland are not in the system of registering the use of agricultural land, they cannot be entitled to direct payments and are ultimately a loss for the Republic of Croatia. Let us add that only Croatia is taxing support from all EU member states to its farmers. Let's ask farmers why most of them have not competed in previous competitions from the rural development programme. They will tell you that the procedures are too complicated, that consultants are not interested in reporting smaller projects, that they cannot meet the tender conditions and their co-financing procedure is too high, that the paying agency has become a narrow throat in the availability of rural development programme funds to a larger number of users, etc. However, this is not the case in our institutions. The village is left to itself, unlike the village and rural space in the surrounding countries. In countries where it is very clear to the rulers that the city can only live if it is leaned on the village. Other member states have made plenty of use of European budget funds and revived their rural environments, increased income to the farmer and strengthened domestic food production. In Croatia, funds from European funds, just like land resources, have served the ruling ones to buy their maintenance in power with them and satisfy the petty interests of their political or party listeners. And that's why we're dealing with OLAF today. When we talk about the rural development programme Croatia has unfortunately missed another chance to save the village. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u42846	Thank you. Mrs Urša Raukar Gamulin will be the position of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u42963	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So last week, the Festival of Unlawful Construction was held because of a decades-long devastion in Vruja Bay, citizens and citizens protested against the destruction of nature, illegal construction, illegal and violent devastation of the road, the construction of harbors on maritime goods. All these illegal branches were built not on the construction zone and on the coastal area where it cannot be built and still on land owned by the Republic of Croatia. They also protested against an inefficient state, against inefficient inspection, inefficient justice and haughtiness, etc. An investor. And now in the media, more specifically on the Index portal, we read that these illegally built objects are legalized. The construction inspection put them on the list for demolition, while at the same time the Administrative Department for Spatial Planning of the Split-Dalmatia County of Omiš Exhibition on 4 June 2014 legalized two buildings, one auxiliary bracket and a swimming pool. Mario Radevenjić head of the Administrative Department for Construction and Spatial Editing of Split-Dalmatia County on the green-left block on the legalisation of Latković's illegal construction corresponds, according to the spatial plans of the City of Omis and the Municipality of Zadvorje facilities are located within the planned geological monument of nature and outside the construction area of the settlement. However, in the 2014 legalisation solution also sent to us, the head writes with the saying that the building under consideration was built within the scope of that plan and that construction land was built in the zone. Furthermore, it does not truthfully conclude that the buildings in question are not located in the area and areas on which illegally built buildings cannot be legalised. The solution was signed by architect Vesna Morovic, and the head finds that the legality is fully responsible for the referent who issued them and verified them as well as in all other cases which are being resolved in the administrative procedure. Of course, there is the possibility that the mentioned architect has spent more than suspicious legalisation on her own, but there is also the possibility that she has received such a task from someone from above, and perhaps she was also worth the Bandic, no frog from the old woman. Finally, the head informs us on suspicion of the legality of the acts issued, all cases are excluded by the construction inspection or the DORH, and after the results have been completed, the public will be informed of the results and follow-up and possible sanctions. So, after 7 g of travel. DORH and the construction inspection began to deal with suspicious legalization of illegally built buildings in Vruja. The question remains, would it have happened without a festival of lawless construction, so no civil action? From this case, we can only conclude that beside all state institutions that are in charge of implementing the laws of the Republic of Croatia and effectively, and not only declaredly, are safeguarding the most valuable spatial resources precisely those who are truly the only last dam to destroy our coast and island. And while we wait for the results of the construction inspection and the DORH's reconnaissance, we believe that the only thing that would be right would be moral and just that the Republic of Croatia as the owner of the land in the bay of Vruja is forever driving the usurper out of the area, to return the bay to its original state, to remove the illegal facilities, to remove the harbor, to align the road and plant the oleandre, rosemary, pine trees so that no one can ever think of such a blasphemy and such a crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u43045	Thank you. Mrs. Anka Mrak Taritaš will now be the position of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u43046	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, Croatia has a serious problem that I think is about the time that all reasonable heads in this country get together and start dealing with it urgently. It's about vaccination against the crown. We as a state, and as a people, we must wake up and start acting responsibly together because this is no longer a joke. We've all been living together for a year and a half now in a completely abnormal state. We live abnormal lives in every way possible. We're having an abnormal time, we're having an abnormal time, we're going to a doctor, our kids are going to school, or they're not going to school. Travel, weddings, funerals, excursions, cinema, theatre, sports events and sports activities have been disturbed. In one word, everything is disrupted to the limit. It has consequences for our standard of life. To the everyday sense of our self-respect and view of the future, psychiatrists and psychologists warn us that the epidemic of anxiety and depression is beginning because of this prolonged state, and the biggest and most serious consequence of people dying from the crown is mass. As of now, 8.226 people have died in a year and a half, more than half of the dead and missing in the Homeland War on the Croatian side in a year and a half. And that's where we're kidding, people are thinking about being vaccinated, so they're waiting for me to know who and I don't know why. We have a brilliant, literally brilliant range of science and human creativity that can save us from this vicious disease, people don't want to be vaccinated. It's time for all of us to get together and, of course, there's no doubt about it, the government has done a disastrously bad job as usual. No one believes these people, it's the first problem, neither do those who voted for them, they know why they voted, but it's not because of trust. The campaign to convince people of the importance of vaccination is bad or not at all, so no better success could be expected on the side of the country. But this story now exceeds and crosses the frameworks of government and headquarters at some point each of us must take responsibility for our actions and its consequences. This is now a matter of responsibility, this is no longer a question of freedom, spreading a dangerous infectious disease from which mass die is not a question of anyone's individual freedom or personal choice. The issue of freedom or personal choice cannot be a valid argument in this debate at all, there can be no argument at all. Well, it's not a personal freedom in society that I'm able to spread the disease or that because of me and my irresponsible children don't go to school or that the economy fails because of the close-down of personal freedom, that's why people and they created the state to go to the limit of freedom of another man. A million and a half people in this country are responsible for themselves and other vaccines. These are people who want to live first of all, and then a normal life, want to work, travel, go to concerts, movies and theatre, parties and social gatherings, want their children to have classes in school in the fall, not a mobile from the couch at home, they want the Croatian weak economy not to fall even deeper. Now the time has come for all of us to gather together, the government and the responsible to take the job and finally figure out how people will educate and convince themselves of the importance of vaccination without causing both antipathy and resistance. And dear citizens of Croatia I ask you nicely to face together the seriousness of this situation where we have found ourselves, to admit that the crown is seriously dying and that we are living completely abnormally. We have a safe and effective solution, which is a vaccine that has saved thousands and millions of lives in the world so far. All of you who haven't done it yet, please go ahead and get vaccinated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u43047	Thank you, too. Mr. Marijan Pavliček will present the position of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u43115	Dear Vice President HS, colleagues and colleagues. In yesterday's statement on behalf of SDSS Club Dragan Jeckov referred to education in the language and letter of members of the national minorities, primarily the Serb national minority in the area of the town of Vukovar and the surrounding places, and on several occasions called the current city government calling us quasi local school reformers. The same Dragana Jeckov spoke of her sightings and myths as she says who are networked among Croatian citizens, and about teaching in language and a letter from members of national minorities. I don't want to talk about myths or legends here. I want to talk about facts. According to the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities in Art. The 11th national minorities have the right to education and education in their language and letter. In addition, there is a Law on Education and Education in the Language and Letter of National Minorities, and all of this is detailed in the 3 state pedagogical standards, the pedagogical standard of preschool education, the pedagogical standard of primary and secondary education where there are 3 models of education, model A, model B and model C. Model A implies the entire teaching in language and letter of the national minority, and this model is a model that is carried out in the area of the city of Vukovar. As soon as you enroll a child in the minority class, the only thing you're offered is model A. Model B and model C are not offered at all. And that model A means in practice what? The kids go to the same building, they go on the same shift, but they're completely separated in class and they don't have any contact with each other. And you today have 20 generations of peace integration in the city of Vukovar living in the same city almost without any contact because from the age of kindergarten itself, until the end of high school education is separated from each other. counterpart Jeckov also says that education in minority language and letter has no alternative and that everything else leads to the assimilation of the minority. Dear Parliamentarians Jeckov, no one wants to assimilate one or the other or the third national minority. But an even bigger problem is that you political representatives of your national minority do not want to allow the integration of your national minority into Croatian society. And this model of education is death for the future of the city of Vukovar and primarily damages your national minority because you are segregating your own national minority. Unfortunately, just through this kind of education model, model A is being implemented today in certain parts of the large Serbian propaganda because what do you call drawings that were created a few weeks ago in the Borovo OS where the teaching takes place according to model A, where the children drew a Vukovar water tower with all the war wounds and at the top of the water tower the Serbian flag, is that not a large Serbian propaganda? Isn't it a great Serbian propaganda that I who am 10 years old? Radio in protest I enter the class and the board says on Cyrillic "civil war in Croatia in '91. By '95,' and the constitution clearly says it's the Homeland War, isn't that great Serbian propaganda? On several occasions, counterpart Jeckov says that members of the Serb community do not have nearly the right to education and education as do members of the Italian community who have their minority schools as members of the Hungarian community, as members of the Czech community. However, I have not heard that children attending Italian school drew the Pula Arena and placed the Italian flag on it. I didn't even hear that members of the Hungarian national minority drew Osijek fort and put a Hungarian flag on it, but I heard and saw about the Vukovar water tower with the Serbian flag, but I saw that the board reads "a civil war in the Republic of '91. until '95.’ And I think that the best people who live in the city of Vukovar know what model education is best for the future of the city of Vukovar. We've been given the trust of our fellow citizens three times, and I believe we know best what's best for our city. The only step would be the C model of education where children will go together, and members of national minorities will be allowed to have an additional 5 hours of teaching where they will learn about their language, their culture and their history.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u43116	Time, time. - Mrs. Crescent. Danica Baricevic will be the position of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u43307	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. At this very moment, the last meeting of the Government of the Republic of Croatia will be held at which EU Commission President Ursula von der Leyen will inform the Government of a positive assessment of the Commission for the National Recovery and Resistance Plan for the Republic of Croatia. The National Recovery and Resistance Plan is a plan that covers all areas of importance for the Croatian economy and society. The plan has defined the investment areas that will achieve the country's economic and social recovery, but also strengthen the resilience of our economy and state to crisis. This Plan recognized all the challenges Croatia faces and with the programme of planned activities in order to recover and resist, it is actually a real tool for reforming and transforming the Republic of Croatia. The national plan is a valuable document that will allow Croatia to receive 6.3 billion euros, i.e. €47.5 billion of grants over the next few years. In addition to the benefits of grants, we have at our disposal and much more favourable loans with the best credit in the EU of a total of 3.6 billion euros or 27.1 billion kuna. These amounts account for more than 12% of GDP, which is why we are together with Greece at the EU summit. The fact is that all the components contained in the National Recovery and Resistance Plan from public administration education, justice, state property, labour markets, social protection, construction of buildings, science, economy, health care will really contribute to the necessary reforms that we need and GDP growth. Here, in this National Recovery and Resistance Plan for the Economy, the largest growth of planned funds is foreseen, up from 53%, which will boost competitiveness and green transition of the economy and the development of sustainable innovative and sustainable tourism. Only business environment in Croatia characterizes the number and complexity of administrative requirements and therefore measures will be implemented to simplify business, it will be cheap and employment will be accelerated and facilitated. The activities provided for in the National Plan shall be directed towards the ease of business, the digitisation of licensing procedures and the authorisation to work, the unification of compulsory fees and the digitisation of the submission of applications and administrative procedures relevant to entrepreneurs. Therefore, the National Recovery and Resistance Plan will strongly raise our readiness for rapid, sustainable and inclusive recovery and stability. Its realisation will contribute to a more favourable structure and efficiency of the economy, a better quality public administration and justice, better services for citizens and entrepreneurs, as well as the development of a quality system of education and science. The national plan includes both the necessary innovative employment policies, the improvement of the pension system, the quality of social protection, the modernisation of the health system, and the energy and anti-quake reconstruction of buildings. It should be pointed out here that the EU Commission has approved Croatia's request to the EU Solidarity Fund, and the EU Commission has made a decision to allocate 683.7m euros of grants to help with the recovery of earthquake damage. In all, within 10 years, we will withdraw 230 billion kuna or 30 billion euros that we could not really count on not being an EU member. This is a great success, incomparably the largest amount for the Republic of Croatia, which has been withdrawn from the EU, all thanks to the government of the Republic of Croatia and Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u43308	Thank you. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 13,01 HOURS]] We continue with the work, the first will be the positions and this is the Club of Representatives Mr Ante Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u43410	Thank you, Chairman, Mr. Radin. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs today would talk about how the ruling verticals with their flocks at the head of HZZ showed strength and muscle on the project Zaželi at pre-election time in Imotska krajina. Namely, for those of you who don't know the program Wish it was certainly one of the dares to say the best programs. A programme that employs women has a positive impact on a number of different aspects, the socio-economic problems of individuals as well as local communities themselves in a way that reduces women's unemployment by hiring in this project, but also by increasing the employability of women after the completion of the project itself. Acceptable partners of the aforementioned programme are also mandatory at the end of the day as HZZ and the Social Care Centre. The general objective of this call is one form of enabling access to employment and the labour market for women vulnerable groups, with an emphasis on hard-to-reach rural areas and islands. Of course, this programme also has its specific objective, and it is to strengthen and improve the working potential of more employable women and women with lower levels of education of employment in the local community, which will mitigate the consequences of their unemployment and of course the risk of poverty and also promote social inclusion and increase the quality of life of end-users. These are the most sensitive, therefore older and powerless. This and this programme with these and these objectives because of the political verticality and I would dare say one form of haughtiness of the ruling and their flocks in the two municipalities of the Imot region specifically to the municipality of Runovic and the municipality of Podbablje were left on the waiting list despite a positive assessment. It would be understandable to me if, by any chance, both municipalities had not already successfully realised this project but in a time without a choice. I would also understand if these two municipalities had not received a positive rating for the new phase of this programme. Well, it would be understandable to me, even if the other units of local self-government in the area of the Imot region had reported that they had not received the project either or that they had remained naturally on the waiting list, but they did. Yes, they all got and signed a contract for the realization of that programme except for these two. Now, what would possibly be the reason for this, I don't know, but the only difference is that in these two municipalities, they're independent commissioners. Independent commissioners are obviously guilty of being led by municipalities, and then by the people who live there, and then the needs of people living in this area are clearly second-class citizens in our Croatia. They are the culprits of the fact that women of difficult employment have lost their jobs. And the flocks, in the election time, drew their departments, and slowly liquidated the Split-Dalmatia County by awarding contracts to those of their own. And boasted publicly creating and actually manifesting a form of party system that brought them up. A system in which quality, life of need and everything ino is not worth the same. The culprits are independent that the older and powerless population of these two municipalities will remain left to themselves. The flocks of the ruling in this case are HZZs who carry out these crazy orders. They are the ones who consider our Croatia their own. They are the ones who have taken the right to decide whether we will live here, whether we will soon breathe, whether we may have something or not. They are the ones who put themselves in the place of little gods, who cheer and dress, but not with their money, but with the money of all of us. They are what they have been raised to often lose on their lips or leave somewhere by walking through their growing up. They lost themselves. And we, we will continue our way of creating a fairer, better and fairer Croatia, and God help us on this path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u43500	Mrs. Katarina Peovic will be the position of the Club of Representatives of the HSS and the Workers' Front. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u43501	Good afternoon, everyone, here sometimes some good news happens, so I'm publishing a good news, which is that the workers of the Orjava will receive their salary. The payoff started this morning. This great victory, which is already big news when wages begin to pay off, is indeed an election. So the workers didn't receive the salary for three months, when the unions sent four letters to the government, there was no answer, but when one amount of people came out, so one group of people on Mark's square came up with a payday. Why am I saying that? Because workers' struggle and labour issues are completely marginalized, we do everything, but workers don't, and workers and workers get their heavy, hard-elected salaries only by such acts. Today, journalists asked me if the Workers' Front was calling for riots and violence because we called in a worker who destroyed his boss's Audi who hasn't paid his salary for months to call us for legal protection, and I replied we invite all workers and workers to contact us because we need workers and workers to get legal protection because they don't have it from the rulings. The government does not give any protection to workers and workers. In our public space, there are perfectly normal floscules to be careful about how a minimum wager is paid in a company. That's what Martina Dalic and Tajan Mrcela of Saponia both said, boasting one and the other that no one in their company has less pay than the minimum wage. Well, less pay than minimum wage is not legally allowed. There's nothing to talk about. We cannot boast of such data, but it has become completely normal and rhetorically acceptable for someone to boast about such data. We must say that both HDZ officials or those former officials are finally putting pressure on those parliamentary deputies and MPs who stand behind workers and workers, and I think it is inappropriate what Martina Dalic did, to call me and tell me that I was lying. Why did I publish that information? Not because I'm deeply offended, but because I assume the workers of Podravka are not in a better position than I am, or they're certainly in a worse position than I am if they stand up for workers' rights, to say something publicly and aloud, it should become a thing of the past. So no one calls for violence and disorder, but we call for the protection of workers and workers' rights that here from this high house rarely comes as a message. I will also say that I am very glad that the workers of the Orjava are starting to receive salaries today, but that this protest has indeed successfully put the situation in relation to the bankruptcy process. In fact, not only will they receive salaries but in this bankruptcy process, however, small fighting unions will participate in some guarantee that the bankruptcy process will end with the continuation of production in Orljava, not, means the shut-down of production, which, unfortunately, would be the goal of ruling, which in this case is the owners of the Orjava. So it's not a private-owned company, it's a state-owned company and it's totally unacceptable, and that's why it's a trend, and not just an isolated incident, what happened to me with Martin Dalic, what Minister Horvat told the market workers, when they came to protest in front of the government, which is that they themselves are responsible for minus 30 million kuna, although there are some people in the administration who, if they didn't work, then this administration should be replaced, if people didn't work well in that administration, then they should have been removed, the state has done nothing on that issue, there are some people 30 years sitting in the administration, but Minister Horvat had the face to tell the workers that they were responsible, and that the government there is not guilty of the 30 million debt that the company did and yet, insin'tin't it whether, a lot of complaints, he said, and the advertising about those shirts very good. So I call upon workers and workers not to remain silent, not to be brought into the situation of this worker, is it, which we have mentioned, but to fight for their rights, to organise themselves trade unionally and to seek legal protection. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u43502	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55614	Good morning respected MPs and respected MPs, I apologize for the little delay, we begin with the announced agenda, first item: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 155 The Government shall propose on the basis of Article 85. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When setting up the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal according to an urgent procedure. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Labour, Pensions and Social Partnership. I would now like to ask the proposal's representative to give an additional explanation of the final draft law. With us is the respected minister of labour, pension system, family and social policy Josip Aladrovic. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55615	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs, allow me introductoryly to point out that the pension reform of 1 January 2019 when an additional extended cycle of pensioners who can work and at the same time have a significant increase in the number of pensioners working and has more than tripled compared to the period before the reform was implemented. According to HZMO data on June 25, 2021, there were 17,813 pensioners working and receiving pensions. Although the results of the pension reform are visible, the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the 2020-2020 programme established a continuation of the reform, which also includes an additional extension of the cycle of pensioners which can work as well as the promotion of a longer stay in the world of work and after 65 years for all those who wish to do so. It is also important to highlight the unfavourable demographic aspect in which we are located. We are faced with an ageing population and an increase in the life of the population, so it is necessary to make it possible, through the legislative framework, to make sure that people of older age become more involved in the labour market as well as in the pensioners themselves. This enables pensioners, on the one hand, to generate additional income, but it is not negligible to influence the labour market as it also ensures additional labour force and transfer of acquired knowledge to younger workers. In doing so, a strong and significant social impact should be highlighted because employment in the elderly contributes to poverty reduction and to increasing social inclusion. I would like to remind you that the Pension Insurance Act provides for a general rule on the suspension of the payment of the pension of the employees who are employed or carry out the activity on the basis of which there is an obligation to provide insurance. The general rule excludes users of old age pensions, early retirement and retirement pensions for long-term insurance workers if they are employed up to half their working hours and disabled pensioners due to partial loss of working ability or professional inability to work independently of working time. In the periods of employment or the exercise of activity on the basis of which there is an obligation to ensure the provision of pensions to beneficiaries, pensions determined on the basis of completed pensions and salaries, these beneficiaries are therefore not entitled to a minimum pension. Therefore, the beneficiaries of the family pension under the applicable legislation do not have the ability to work while paying their pension at the same time, so in the event of employment, they are suspended from the payment of the family pension. It is important to mention that according to the HZMO data again, more than 215,000 users of the family pension, and their share in the total structure is 19.13%. The average amount of family pension including international contracts in June also amounted to 2.094 kuna and 93 June, which is less than the average amount of pension in the Republic of Croatia. In addition, in most cases family pensioners are widows, or widowers, older ones who use them after the death of a spouse or an extramarital mate. Therefore, it is a sensitive group of pensioners who remain the only members of the household, and their incomes are significantly reduced which leads them to a difficult material situation which is further damaged by the crisis, Covid-19. Data show that more than 27% of cases of surviving spouses and extramarital spouses are potentially at risk of poverty. Therefore, this bill proposes to allow family pensioners to work half full-time while paying their full-time pensions, and it is also prescribed that family pensions in employment periods do not belong to the minimum pension right. In this respect, it should be pointed out that, taking into account the current legal framework which regulates the ability of users to work on old, early age and old age pensions for long-term insurance undertakings, it is proposed to provide equal regulation of the work of family pensioners. The proposed entry into force is on 1 September 2021, given that HZMO, as an implementing body, must occasionally provide technical preconditions for the establishment of a new business process or to establish new programming and organisational solutions. The funds necessary for the implementation of the proposed law are provided in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2021, but also in the national budget projections for 2022 and 2023. The proposed law will increase the expenditure of the state budget in the estimated amount of millions and 470 thousand kuna in 2021, 46 million kuna in 2022 and 68 million kuna in 2023, namely, the increased expenditure will come from the fact that part of widows or widows who are currently active in the labour market decide to leave early retirement, leading to an increase in the number of family pension beneficiaries, estimated at 350 new users in 2021, 2100 new users in 2022 and 2800 new users in 2023. At the same time with an increase in expenditure, will increase revenue from contributions to pension insurance in the estimated amount of EUR 2.8 million in 2021, 33,6 million kuna in 2022 and 43 million in 2023. For this reason, I conclude that it is proposed to adopt this Act on an urgent basis for particularly justified reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55616	Thank you. We have a request for a break. Comrade Grmo, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55617	Thank you, Your Honor. So we already have a situation in Croatia that in certain counties we have more pensioners than employees. Our pension system is in big trouble and what this government doesn't want to realize is that everything you have in the budget is given to you by the people, given to you by entrepreneurs, craftsmen who fill the budget. In this crisis, you have continued to repress, with totalitarian tendencies, you announce yesterday that support will bind to whether or not someone has vaccinated. How do you expect employers to control it when, in order to get people's support, they can't fire at all, and no one wants people fired? If you continue with this, with a policy like this, I cannot believe that as a liberal colleague, Mr. Hrebak approves this asphyxiation and entrepreneurial freedoms and personal freedoms, I promise you protests. You'll have a protest if you continue with this tyranny instead of meeting our entrepreneurs, you didn't give them anything, you just took them. Just as you're taking constant charges and taxes, will you take taxes and taxes from the unvaccinated? You'll take that. But you won't give support. We're going to get up hard here in HS against this, and we're going to see how these so-called. Liberals are appointed because the ruling majority depend on them, and if they stand up against this, with their two hands, this won't work for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55618	What were you supposed to do? Stanku? ... You could have, then you could have asked for it, not given this one political speech without any request for a break. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But the procedure should also require a break. So I'm not running away from political speech, but I also need to respect the procedure. Here you are, colleague Hrebac, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55619	Honorable and esteemed president of HS, I will not ask for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I know how it usually ends, although I might ask for it, then I will seek a break as well as my colleague Grumoja has asked for a break, but that break will take literally two sentences. Comrade Grmoy, don't just talk to me about liberalism and don't tell me any more about taking away my rights because we've seen what rights you'd like to take away, and next time, instead of the book, I'll give you a white sheet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55620	Okay. What was that now, a request for a break too? ... Okay. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Injury of the Rules of Procedure, fellow Grumo, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55621	... He's been injured. 238, how uninventional you are with that white sheet and the Ku Klux Klan, so it's more inconspicuous. [[Specially enabled.]] So I never questioned the rights of any minority, especially not blacks, means in Croatia, nor do we have any problem with that. So it's so crazy that you're trying to get through that no one can buy it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55622	Okay, I'm not going to share any warnings, even if there's a reason, but let's calm down, go back to what's at the heart of this law, which is the rights of our pensioners, so let's go with the replicas. First, it's my friend Kirin's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55623	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor. The pension model rests on the 1883 Bismarck system of intergenerational solidarity and is linked to the number of employees whose income is a certain percentage in the pension fund. It is very important, in unfavourable democratic conditions, to enable the increasing involvement and promotion of remains in the world of work and after 65 years, to ensure additional labour force and transfer of acquired knowledge. Please, isn't it for the pension system, the pension fund better full-time without pension, where possible, of course, but employment up to half the working time with non-retirement benefits? Contribution to the pension fund in that case [[Intruder: Thank you.]] So... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Need to encourage staying in the world of work [[Thank you, colleague Kirin.]] in order to get everyone [[Intruder: Comrade Kirin...]] who want to do it and make it possible. [[Intruder: Comrade Kirin, time's up.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55624	It's been a long time. Time's up. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55625	Your Honor, Agent Kirin, I thank you for asking. So you've done well in apostrophe of the principles and models of Bismarck's intergenerational solidarity system. Of course, full-time employment, i.e. increasing the steady employment rate or the total number of persons employed, is very important for the sustainability of the pension system. It is precisely the intensity of this Law that we should further strengthen or extend the circle of those who can work so that they can earn additionally by their will and also contribute to the overall revenues of the state budget or to the overall macroeconomic stability. For this reason it is also one of the reasons why we allow this circle of pensioners whose age structure is somewhat lower to get back into the labour market and actively participate in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55626	Hey, buddy Buck, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55627	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I would like to ask you if you can further explain the position you said, which, of course, says in the proposal for this legal text that this law will cost the state budget this year something like a million and a half kuna, next year 46 million kuna, that year after that almost 69 million kuna. Please explain in more detail, on what basis will this cost actually take place and, in fact, by your assessment, will there be more insurance companies that will activate this right of those who are already receiving a family pension or those who are working and not receiving a family pension just because they work full-time, please the figures? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55628	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55629	I thank you for asking Mr. Bucky. Therefore, through a PFU form expressing additional incomes or expenditures that will affect the state budget in this particular case, we have on the one hand an increase in expenditure due to the estimated number of people who will use the right to retire and then re-activate in the working contingent, and on the other hand, the increase in income because these people who are activated in the working contingent are not currently part of the pension system as well as those that are part of the pension system because their activation will increase income from the contribution. It is very clear in the very assessment of the fiscal impact in the law that what expectations are made and of course we expect that more family pension beneficiaries will currently access the labour market from the pension system than will be vice versa. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55630	Comrade Buric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55631	Thank you, dear president of HS. Dear Minister Aladrovic. In the term of Prime Minister Plenkovic's cabinet, all pensions rose by more than 13% and the lowest by as much as 17%, a national compensation of 800 kuna per month was imposed, so-called. Covid addendum for pensioners up to 1,200 kuna, here today we will discuss the possibility of working as pensioners of the family pension and since all of this is foreseen primarily by the pre-election programme of HDZ which later entered all strategic documents from the Government of Croatia's programme, to the RNS, and since it is an active and working group for family pensions from 11 months last year, what can you tell us about and what outcomes and when can we expect? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55632	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55633	Thank you, dear representative Buric, for this matter. So, since you also know very well either the excellent pension system and all the problems or challenges the pension system faces, we are all aware that the level of levels, and also in the opening speech I mentioned this, the level of family pension in Croatia, or its adequateness, is not satisfactory. That is why we are also in the pre-election programme of HDZ and the Government programme of 2020-2024. add an item in which we want to form this system in another way, all with a purpose that our pensioners will have bigger and more adequate pensions. It is precisely the task of the task of the task force formed at the 11th month last year to come up with a system that we will later implement and, of course, as usual, fulfill our pre-election promise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55634	A colleague of the Hill, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55635	Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. I support these amendments and additions to the Pension Insurance Act in front of the pensioner corpus that I represent in HS and to allow work with pensions up to four hours and for family pensioners. It should be said that this is not a substitute for a low level of pension in the Republic of Croatia, nor are pensioners forced to work but it is possible for whoever wants it, can and where it has places on the labour market to work and make money for existence. I will propose to this law three amendments, and their goal is that users of the lowest pension of all kinds can work up to four hours without reducing the minimum pension and that the deadlines for the application of the law be reduced as much as possible. I hope you'll consider these amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55636	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55637	Dear Representative Hrelja, I thank you for this question and for an exhaustive explanation of how you see this part of the system. So, as regards the family pensions themselves or the definition of family pensions and users through this legislative proposal, we wanted first of all to activate users on the labour market or provide them with a level playing field with users of early and old retirement, so we want to absolutely unify all users that they have the same rights to consume their rights on the labour market in an equal or approximately similar way, and I am sure that through the parliamentary debate, but also through amendments, we will come to an even more quality solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55638	Now it's time for your colleague, Dark Taritash, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55639	Thank you very much, esteemed president of HS. Dear Minister. So in Croatia, we have a million and a half employees, those who use the opportunity to work behind 65 years is 17.690, I use the data you gave in the explanation, so that's about 1%. Even with this possibility in this law that even those who use a family pension will have no big swing. I'm interested in the fact that you're the minister who's actually for the whole portfolio or the whole niche of work, whether or not we're thinking about any more measures, about any other elements because what we're seeing today, we see that we have a job problem, we see that we have some situations where we don't have enough employees, and I'm wondering if you're doing something in terms of that, and here's these three seconds when they're going to come to the assembly and a new law that will define that you can use Family pension and pension of the deceased partner [[Intruder: Thank you.]] or marriage mate. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55640	Comrade Dark Taritate, good trick with three seconds. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55641	I'd like to thank you for asking the most respected MPs. So, as far as labour market measures themselves are concerned, we need to know about the state of the labour market in order to know the appropriate measures. So we now have just over 120,000 unemployed, we have 55,000 employees more than last year and 4,000 employees than 2019, which is usually when viewed according to the most powerful year since 2008 by the total number of employees. So, from practically the last economic crisis, the last economic crisis. What we are doing is active employment policy measures for which we will allocate more than a billion kuna this year. What we do continuously through Covid support, that is, through this period of Covid, we help entrepreneurs to preserve the jobs of their employees and to preserve their business substance and we will continue to do so with a whole series of measures just directed to the labour market. And as for your last part of the question where you had three seconds like me right now, that's what MP Buric answered, so in the next time we're going to refund it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55642	Now it's time for counterpart Pocrnic Radosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55643	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Ministers, how you comment on the concern that the expansion of the pensioner's circle in question, which can work until half of their working hours, and at the same time keep their pension achieved, will cause labour market disturbances at the expense of unemployed people who have no income. Is this even realistic given the situation that we had nearly 400,000 unemployed 7-8 years ago, and today, despite the pandemic, there is about 125,000 or is basically a chance that employers will be able to find the missing profiles of workers that are not in the Republic of Croatia or for which there are not enough motivated workers to work them out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55644	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55645	Dear MPs, I thank you for asking. So you have well absorbed one of the challenges that we are now facing in the labour market, which is precisely the lack of labour force or lack of sufficient competent labour force. This is the challenge we and all the countries of the environment face, all the EU member states. And certainly one of the segments of the solution, not entirely but one of the segments is just to activate all those who want to work and all those who have specific knowledge and who can, by their working contribution or by contributing within the working contingent, raise the level of competence, do transfer knowledge to other generations, but can also enable yourself to a dignified age. This is one of the segments that we're going to activate, but of course a whole series of proactive employment policies we're going to see, and finally, when you look at the data on the movement on the labour market, it's very visible from that data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55646	My colleague Blažević, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55647	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Ministers of this amendment, I think that we should certainly welcome it because it is people with extremely low pensions, and according to some data, 93% of the users of these pensions are women. Today’s or all of these pension reforms related to the enlargement of labour rights have led to three times the number of pensioners employed. You've explained nicely what the benefits are, but I think there's a possibility of a reduction in the so-called "Benefits". working on black. Because the pensioners were forced to seek employment to increase their incomes, so I'm interested in your position, whether or not you took that into account, whether there is a possibility of reducing the work to black through these pension reforms.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55648	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55649	Thank you, honourable representative Blažević, so as to work on black or undeclared work, not only do we see this as a way of legalising certain segments or certain details within the undeclared work itself but we are working very actively with this strategy to combat undeclared work that will be very quickly activated through the action plan of the same. Of course, in cooperation with all other ministries, the State Inspectorate and bodies dealing with the supervision of labour relations in the Republic of Croatia. And I am sure that these elements, therefore, that the elements relating to this law will certainly activate a certain contingent and will certainly result in that certain individuals who may have seen unreported work as one of the forms of acquiring or increasing their own income will now actually be visible in the system itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55650	She will now be replicated by counterpart Vlasic Iljkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55651	Thank you, Vice President. The Honorable Ministers of the Pension Insurance Act are now required to work on pensioners until half full-time, and this amendment extends the circle to family pensioners. In a moment, however, at a time when pensioners decide to work half full-time, they do not continue to exercise the right to a minimum pension that is more favourable to them than to make a pension on the basis of their employment and wages. This is about pensioners who have had extremely low salaries, for example workers in the textile industry and means to people who are at risk at the highest level of poverty. My question is whether you intend to amend such a legal provision since it really is the fact that, in order for some of the pensioners to earn something, they must lose their 500 or 700 kuna previously the difference between the lowest and those pensions based on work experience and wages.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55652	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55653	I'd like to thank the honourable MPs for asking. Therefore, as regards the minimum pension institute itself, we must be aware that it is protective within the pension system for all those who have not paid their contributions, so on the principle of reciprocity, a sufficient amount of contribution, in order to exercise the right to an adequate pension. And exactly the lowest pension is created as a safeguard mechanism if someone is activated on the labour market in that case, in fact, this protection mechanism as one of the mechanisms for preventing or combating poverty is removed, but I am sure that there will be quality proposals in the debate in the House on this law and of course we are prepared as a Government to accept all the quality that brings out the parliamentary debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55654	Now it's my colleague Ivanovic's turn, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55655	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Here, we've seen from these figures that you've stated that by the end of June of this year there were about 18,000 people who used this legal provision. We now extend the law to people who receive family pensions. Do you have any estimates of how much these numbers could move in time, here, in front of us, in a year or two?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55656	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55657	Your Honor, I thank you for asking. As far as the estimates of the movement of numbers are concerned, they are very ungrateful estimates that go in this direction, but we certainly expect several thousand people who will be among our citizens who will be activated from the pension system. Also, a certain contingent will enter the pension system, but continue its stay in the work contingent. So here we have 2 benefits, on the one hand, of this benefit to enable those who are not currently in the working contingent to enter, to enter the labour market, to re-activate themselves even though they are pensioners, but on the other hand, we allow definitely all those who wish or can or can exercise the right to retire, to consume these rights, therefore we have additional benefits, and all in the sense of preventing the fight against poverty, increasing the adequateness of pensions, but also meeting the needs of the labour market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55658	Now it's time for my colleague, Daus, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55659	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor. The right of a person to additional income is unquestioned and we absolutely support it, but the problem is that some people will decide because they have to, not as you said, because they want to, because pensions are very low. And on the other hand, people have given their best years during their working life, many of them and health, and there will not be many who will be able to work. On the other hand, we also have 35% of the population of the Republic of Croatia between 15 and 65 years of age which is economically inactive and my question, and it might be going to the prime minister who co-ordinates all ministries, but your portfolio is big enough, so maybe you can answer me as well. My question is when to approach the essence itself, there is a problem itself, and when it is planned to go into full reform of the system, and not these, although they are for good purposes, let's call them, however, little, cosmetic procedures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55660	Thank you for asking, Your Honor, Agent Daus. So as far as reform of the system itself is concerned, the last pension reform was in 2019 with significant improvements that we can now see in the context of the pension system, but also in the context of labour legislation because these two segments, unfortunately or fortunately, cannot be separated. We now have certain segments of pensioners, certain segments of the target group, in order to express myself, which we want to increase adequateness, without disrupting the sustainability of the pension system itself. We are aware that these policies, i.e. we are certain that these policies will form more adequate pensions, and that is now the primary objective, in the context of all amendments to the pension policy, the Pension Insurance Act or other legal acts that define the pension system, the priority and in this direction we have decided in the government's work programme and in this direction we are going to go and I am sure that everything we have promised and fulfilled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55661	I'll have my colleague Peric replicate it now, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55662	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Well, we certainly need to welcome this intention and the amendment of the law. In fact, when we look at the total of millions and 200, almost 40,000 pensioners, over 505,000 are users of old-age pensions, and the family of 230, over 232,000. So it's already a sign that it's a group that has very much an interest in potentially increasing its revenues. But what should be noted is that such a man who continues in the world of work has all the material rights that come to him, so from the contract of work or collective contract and all those and benefits which every other employee man, regardless of what is at 4 o'clock, has, therefore, an additional increase in the material improvement of the users themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55663	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55664	Dear MPs Peric, they can absolutely agree with you, so here we have two benefits for the workers or pensioners themselves, whatever they call them, so from the increase, from enabling work to retire, from increasing or increasing their incomes, but also from the third benefit of the pension system and the benefits of the work system, the increase in the number of people who can participate in the labour market, by increasing the number of those who pay or act as an active member of the pension system, on the other hand, although they are naturally passive within the pension system and that is definitely, these are two goals from a personal perspective, but also two objectives from the systematic perspective that this law allows. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55665	Comrade Hrebak, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55666	Dear Ministers, from one liberal angle, we can say that this is a good shift forward, but what I am interested in further, and you yourself said, in 2019, we are lagging behind only a little about reducing unemployment, so we are now entering in the next 2 or 3 years when economic growth is likely to increase, when labour market needs will be even greater. One part will probably be solved through imports of foreign workers, but I am particularly interested in what it says in the very explanation of the Bill's proposal for amendments and amendments to the Pension Insurance Act, as you still see possible in this part of the portfolio because it mentions itself here, so that the pension reform continues, that there will continue to further stimulate certain groups. Is there still a possibility of certain groups that would enable and disburse, therefore, the system, and allow them to continue to work? Are there other groups like that and what are the plans of the Ministry on that?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55667	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55668	I'd like to thank you, Mr. Hrebak, for asking. As for the groups themselves, so this is a large enough segment, not only through these legal changes but also through future legislative changes that are going to make pensions more adequate, so increased pensions for all family pensioners, we are talking about more than 200,000 people in that contingent. Strengthening the pension system must always go in two directions, so on the one hand, increasing the adequateness of pensions or increasing pensions, which we have done so far and we will do in the future and on the other hand the sustainability of the pension system as one fiscal restriction for the state budget and for, for the Ministry of Finance, the government or the whole society. We see another segment of improvement in the strength and mixed pension system, so the strength and the second pillar from which we expect it to be much stronger offerings in the future. And what we've defined in the government's work programme are exactly these two segments that we're going to continuously improve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55669	Thank you. And the last line, fellow Murganic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55670	I thank the Honorable President, Your Honor. I will focus my replica on family pension users who are mostly women we know are very often, and we know from practice and life they have left their jobs and have accepted family pensions to solve perhaps some problems within the family, which is, we know that they have been very often nurses of their older family members, or guardians of their children. This will enable them to return to work on the one hand, on the other hand, to prevent this black market because this particular population of women is still working for additional income working on black aid, fostering, cooking or householders in some families where they could not be registered or not registered, and in this way they will exercise rights as a colleague said from a collective contract and all those other ones arising from a working relationship. So, I welcome this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55671	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55672	I would like to thank the esteemed representative Murganic. Yes, very often in the pension system we have exactly these differences between women and men and we need to be aware of this challenge because, in time unfortunately, the pay gap was at some point more intense, we are now paying that difference between women and men to reduce the pensions to make them more adequate and women. We are aware, on the other hand, that very often the users of family pensions are women, and therefore we believe that an additional sub-rust is an additional sub-supply that not only through the definition of these amendments and the addition of the law but also through the next period when we will redefine the entire system of family pensions we have in mind and thus all spouses who, once again note, are generally and more often women, we allow more adequate pensions, which also means preventing any risk of poverty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55673	I thank the Minister, you can return to your post. Now I'm gonna call the committee's reporters, will they take their word for it? Yeah. It will speak on behalf of the Committee on Labour, Pensions and Social Partnership of the Vice-President of the Committee Majda Buric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55674	Thank you, Your Honor, President HS. Therefore, the Committee on Labour, Pension System and the social partnership of HS at the 12th session held yesterday 7 July 2021. He discussed the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act with the final proposal of the Law P.Z. No. 155th, which was submitted to the president by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by the Act of 1 July '21. That act was discussed by the Committee in accordance with Article. 83. The Rules of Procedure of HS as a home working body. In his opening statement, he pointed out that the proposed law extends the circle of pensioners and family pensioners who can work until half their working hours and receive full-time pensions. He pointed out that about 216.000 family pensioners with an average net pension of 2096 kuna, less than the average pension amount in the Republic of Croatia. The proposed amendment will allow for the improvement of the material position of those pensioners, especially widows or widowers who make up most of the family pension beneficiaries. In the debate, the committee members supported the adoption of this law, and the debate stressed that working until half the working hours of the family pension user will not significantly affect the labour price, and on the other hand will contribute to improving the material position of this group of pensioners. Furthermore, an opinion has been expressed in the debate on which it should allow this group of pensioners to work in full-time. Since labour shortages on the market should also enable those who wish and who can work to work. Following the debate, the Committee unanimously decided to propose that HS adopt the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55675	Thank you. I am opening the debate, the first in line is the House of Homeland Movement Representatives Club and the esteemed colleague Daniel Spajic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55676	The Honorable President of the Assembly, ministers with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. This Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act in fact seeks to remove the two pads that have been made to the previous amendments to the Pension Insurance Act. That's how you first get into art. In the 87th century, 2nd and 3rd, it removes the wrong invitation to the wheel. 9. instead of calling the wheel. Article 1 paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: Pension Insurance Act. It is good that this obvious slip of the bill in the light of the legal text explicitly and admits it. However, we must note that the obvious failures in writing the legal text should not be removed through the process of passing a new law but through the process of correcting errors. Besides, in art. 1. The final draft law amending and supplementing the Pension Insurance Act is quite unnecessaryly added in Article 87(5), which sets out the pension factor by which the family pension is determined in the case of full-time employment. This provision is completely unnecessary because it is only important to determine that during employment until half the full - time work, the payment of previously acquired family pensions is not suspended. This provision is contained in Article 99(3), which adds that a person who is employed by full-time retirement is not suspended. This makes the legal text only more transparent and vague. In addition, Article 99 shall be amended as a whole. The Pension Insurance Act is also marked by the same number 3 when adopting the previous amendment twice the same item of that important legal article. Instead of acknowledging a mistake as he did in connection with the above mentioned Article 87 of the Law and amending the wrong number of paragraphs through the correction procedure, the legislator here amends the whole legal article and thus leads to additional legal uncertainty and irregularities in the legal order. These two examples only show that the legislator indirectly and incorrectly makes changes in the legal text important for Croatian pensioners' rights. As regards essential changes to these amendments and amendments to the law, the circle of persons who can receive pensions and work at the same time is expanded. Although the basic rule of the Croatian Pension Insurance Act is contained in the provision of Article 99(1). The Retirement Insurance Act states that the person who retired cannot simultaneously make a pension and be an active insurance undertaking and that, therefore, in the case of re-employment or acquisition of the property of the insurance undertaking on the other basis of the pensions, it is suspended. That rules are getting more and more detached. In addition to the 11 grounds or exceptions referred to above, for the derogation from the pension suspension rules due to re-employment or the start of the activity on the basis of which there is a pension obligation now adds the 12th possibility that even family pensioners who are employed by half full-time may receive a previously achieved pension. Given the increasingly frequent deviation from the rules that at the same time cannot be retired and active insurance, we suggest that the possibility of changing the rules be considered in a way that allows all pensioners to be employed until half full-time without suspending the payment of their pensions. We think that changing the basic rule or allowing all pensioners to work until half of their working hours would be much more correct than the current listing of 12 selected groups that work up to half their working hours, and one full-time working group such as police officers and military personnel or persons who have worked on demining operations does not affect the exercise of the right to retire. We advocate that the same rules apply to everyone, not to set a rule, and then order a number of mostly interesting exceptions. In particular, I would like to warn you that when proposing a new 12 exceptions, the legislator does not at all take into account that there are not only widows and widows among the users of family pensions but also children of the deceased insurance company. In this regard, we think that the law provides for a provision because it also opens up the possibility that children who are family pensioners work half the time without affecting their right to a family pension. We think that such a proposal is not good and that the possible use of a family pension with half the working hours should be limited to mates, widows, and widowers of the deceased insurance company. The domestic movement will, as always, support the proposal if it is in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, so we will probably support this law because it still brings something a little better. However, I will take the opportunity to point out again that these are the fire measures that we are.../incomprehensible/... because of a series of demographic and other problems that have been eating at us for years, and the government's reforms that these problems would face are nowhere in sight. All reforms launched by the ruling SDSS and HDZ coalition have failed due to lack of political will, corruption and lack of expert personnel to implement. Croatia is the country with the greatest negative impact of demographic change on society and the economy, which is particularly evident in the impact of these changes on the sustainability of the pension and health system. A health system managed by Beros, Kujundzic and an IT florist should not even be talked about. Every little bit of rebalancing is caused by a lot of additional billions of taxpayers' kuna being pumped into health care. When it comes to the pension system, it falls apart as a map tower because half of the small pensions are barely raised in HZMO’s contribution while the other half is paid out of other budget expenditures. As long as there is no such situation, we have no chance that the inexplicable situation of our pensioners is irrevocably mended. Our pension system needs radical changes for which thorough reforms are necessary. On several occasions, the Homeland Movement stressed that the wrong policies had been integrated for 20 years and gave their full negative synergy effect precisely in the area of pension policy. While the European Commission is concerned that it will be up to 2060. The EU ratio of employees and pensioners to 4:1 to 2:1 is already 30 years ahead of them because our ratio is 1.2 to 1 ahead of us in a negative context. While the number of pensioners has increased by more than 20% since the beginning of the century, demographic trends will lead to growth until the number of employees is still at the level of 2006. The investment potential of as many as 125 billion kunas in private pension funds is very poor. The most important thing was to push their people into the management boards of the management company to convey their good practices to public enterprises and property management. A significant improvement in pension standards, not an increase in the average pension of 50,60 kuna per year, requires the resolution of the Peace Fund deficit based on generation solidarity. To illustrate what needs to be done to achieve this is a useful example of how we need 30% more jobs and 50% higher average wages in the Republic of Croatia. The analyses say that from the beginning of the century to today we have developed on average on the rest of Eastern Europe would be at that goal or at least close to it, then with the Czech Republic and Slovenia we are at the top, and today with Bulgaria we are lactating in the last place on the table. Because of the catastrophic relationship towards entrepreneurship and investors, there is no shift in the overall increase in jobs. All these weighty measures are the reason why we don't have an increase in productivity and an average of wages. The budget proposal 2021, adopted at the end of last year, shows that the government is not planning any reforms or substantial shifts in these areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55677	The second club of representatives will be Most and respected counterpart Ante Kujundzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55678	Thank you, President HS. Honorable ministers with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. The intention of these changes is more than clear, and the Bridge will support them in good faith that they will change the situation. However, I will take the opportunity to talk about one form of an unfavourable demographic picture in Croatia and an extremely low standard of living. It was these two factors that put before us, not only the attempt to save the state and the labour market, but I would dare say one form of saving the existence of every individual in Croatia. In the past 10 years, just over 370,000 people have moved out of Croatia, and our Croatia has lost more than 80,000 inhabitants naturally. In sum, Croatia has lost an incredible 484.889 population in the last ten years. In the same period, more than 80,000 working foreigners moved into Croatia. The demographic deadness of Croatia is also visible through one form of the most common pictures of certain rural or peripheral areas or places in Croatia where you can most often find one coffee shop, one bookshop, bakery and shop, and here and there, and lately more and less post offices. There's no trace of anything else. Bad policies and measures for the sake of measures resulted in the defeating numbers by which many of the mentioned areas live and nearly twice as many residents over 65 years compared to those up to 18 years, which is a clear indication of a form of social death and its easy sneaking into our Croatia. As for pensioners who continue to work, Croatia is at the very bottom. In the EU, with post-retirement work, every sixth continues, and in Croatia approximately every 12th or 13th pensioner. Among the Member States, Sweden has the largest share of pensioners who continue to work in which each third retired citizen remains on the labour market. Sumatically, Norway and Iceland have about two-fifths of citizens who continue to work after retirement. The smallest part of the pensioners who continue to work after retirement are Greece, the percentage is about 2%, and we know very well not so long ago the fate of Greece. According to the 2019 survey in Croatia, it seems to me to be somewhere around 7% of pensioners who have continued to work, which is twice the EU average, which is slightly higher than 15%. The legislative changes ahead of us should theoretically bring us closer to the EU average for this reason we will support this, but will it be in practice doubt. The reasons for this suspicion are in the list of deficits he published for the Croatian Employment Service, as well as the number of unemployed, and the working-age population of the Republic of Croatia, which today represents just over 125,000. While or even if the vital pensioners could continue to work on the work of bakers, waiters, cosmetologists or hairdressers, as far as it is possible to continue working on the jobs of carpenters, armymen, fasadeers or not to tell the jobs of shipbuilding or smokemaking, the lack of labour force in Croatia is caused by a large number of emigrants who, in fact, because of the inability of employment or low wages, have been forced to leave Croatia to an unregulated state and extremely low pensions of starting places are how I said the intentions of trying to save these changes are what is being saved. In other words, the interest in continuing the work of pensioners in Croatia is in fact something particularly bad, and these are low pensions and the risk of poverty which is certainly one of the greatest imperatives and not only our minister but also all of us here. While most pensioners enjoy or should enjoy their pensions by rearing their grandchildren at the end, in Croatia a good part of the pensioners live on the edge of poverty. The European Commission's survey shows that the lack of funding in the home budget is actually one of the main reasons why pensioners continue to work. It is clear that a large number of pensioners who cannot live a life worth living because of low incomes. And while labourable pensioners can even get a job and make an extra income to live a life worth living, we wonder if we are wondering who they are and what they will end up with. At the end of what they can expect from our country and what the state can do for them. I just hope we don't reach out to that method to bury them alive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55679	3rd debate Green-left bloc representative club, dear colleague Damir Bakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55680	Dear Ministers, honourable proposing representatives, distinguished colleagues and colleagues have a good day once again. It is therefore proposed to open up the possibility of working up to half the working hours and for family pensioners, without suspending pension payments. Such provision in Art. 3. In 99th of this basic law already exists for age pensioners, for age pensioners for early, long-term insurance workers, I'm sorry, for early retirement, also for disabled pensioners. In this case, if family pensioners have the right to a minimum pension and are employed by half of their working hours, they lose the right to a minimum pension as an instrument of social protection, and their family pension is paid in accordance with the average value points achieved, the years of the primary insurance and pension factor's internship. All of this is about equating the right of this category of pensioners with other categories that the right to work until half of their working hours already have, and that my pension is suspended, so that they are not suspended. And yet here we have one very different element, and that's the retirement age. We note that family pensioners can also be young as long as they are regularly educated, as well as married or life partners after 50 years. life, and in some cases before. It becomes unclear and prioritizes what effect this provision will have on the labour market and what on the pension system as a whole. And on the other hand, how just is it since the possible opening of a craft or another equivalent form of employment for family pensioners suspends the right to receive a pension. That is also indicated in the public debate. Therefore, it was necessary to make an accurate review and analysis and users of family pensions and insurance companies entitled to a family pension, but they did not activate this right because of the existing employment relationship. In particular, this was necessary under the conditions under which the adoption of this law was included in the emergency procedure because here we have no right to seek and gain insight into data and analysis between the two readings. Unfortunately, we didn't get any data, and we didn't get any analysis in particular. The only information we received was the preface of this legal text, quoted today by the minister in his presentation, which is that this law is estimated to cost the state budget of about a million and a half kuna in this year, then about 46 million kuna in next year and finally about 69 million kuna in 2023. It's unclear how we got to those numbers, and that's why I'm in the replica of a minister who's not here right now asking him for numbers, but he didn't give up. Because obviously the only way to get to the cost is that, in fact, the right to, to, therefore, activate the right to a family pension for those insurance companies who have the right to do so, and so far have not activated it because they are still working. They will therefore reduce their employment to 50% and begin to receive a pension. And it seems from the estimated amounts that it is estimated that there are no numbers of such insurance companies. Still, if so, if such persons make up most of those who will consume this law then it is not, as the assessment of the situation and the description of the consequences resulting from the adoption of this law, then it is not mainly about involving pensioners in the world of work but rather about the opposite, then it is about a new wave of retirement and vacancy of many half of the jobs. Al, I remind you that exactly this measure, precisely this measure that this law introduces, entered into the National Recovery and Resistance Programme, I have had the opportunity to ask personally in the replica and prime minister to explain, precisely this measure is listed in the National Recovery and Resistance Plan as a measure to increase the adequateness of pensions. Yes, increasing the adequateness of pensions will take place for those who are already receiving family pensions and will potentially benefit from the right that this law gives them. What about the other one, however, seems to most of the users of this right that it opens with this new law? And what if this new wave of occupancy happens in professions where we're defiant anyway? It is impossible to determine under this law without a valid analysis of the situation and an assessment of the expected consequences. By the way, a similar analysis has remained even a posterior in the event of the same legal provision for long-term insurance users for long-term pensioners. And we notice that the permit to return to work without suspending pension payments, for such insurance companies is already at the beginning controversial. It's controversial because it's insurance companies with a particularly long job experience, which is why we allow them to leave early retirement without a pension, justifiably. So we allow early retirement without a pension and then we allow such a de facto early retirement to return to work. It would be nice if we had at least a follow-up analysis of the effects of that process, I didn't see it. It's not a voice to have that right abolished so that we understand each other well. This is just an obvious example of the situation that requires an analysis and impact assessment on both the labour market and the pension system. Apropo definition of long-term insurance is unfair for women, and we have warned several times about a minister who is not here and personally. This definition is unfair for women as long as in transition i.e. As long as the general terms of the pension are not the same for men and women. It's necessary to make it right. And let me get this straight. It makes sense what the law proposes, but from point of view to good realization, it's a long way to go. That path begins with data, analysis and evaluations. Data, analysis and assessment may indicate that certain respects are needed, perhaps installing some age limits for the activation of certain rights, as is the case. in Slovenia, for example, He warned counterpart Anusic in a public debate, for example, in particular such data, analysis and evaluations should be at hand in the emergency procedure when there is no time for subsequent analyses. That is why it is disappointing that the Government, as a proponent of this law, has not adequately prepared and presented this bill to the whole public not only for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55681	Now, on behalf of the Center and Voice Representatives Club, a respected colleague, Mrak Taritash, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55682	Thank you very much, well-respected Croatian Presidential Assembly. Dear colleagues from the ministry, colleagues and colleagues, the world we live in today is much different than it was just a few years ago, and those changes that took place occurred in the world of pensions and pensioners. Croatia is lacking workers in many economic branches today. Something that not long ago seemed utopia, but the fact is that there is an economic branch where really when people retire they can't work, but there are economic branches where that's possible. For example. Take a look at some shopping chains that targetedly advertise jobs for pensioners because there's no one to work with. At the same time, something that hasn't changed and which is unfortunately the same, is that pensioners in Croatia still have very small pensions that are often not enough for a dignified life. In general, work for pensioners, for pensioners, or when you retire to work for 2 hours, 4 hours a day or work a week is no newspaper in the EU. It is something that you are really and we have been able to see for years that is being used and it has often been a question of why some of the good practices we see in some EU countries do not have, too. In 2018 it was the first amendment of the law that made it possible, and here this amendment will allow for a certain group that I will say a little bit about later. What we are witnessing is that by progress of medicine and for the sake of better quality of life we really live longer, that we are healthy and that age is no longer what it used to be. Many 65 - year - olds and 70 years of age are still in power, can make a significant contribution and may not really want to retire because they will not be able to live from it. That's why it's good that I can work part-time and it doesn't abolish the right to pay off my pension along with my salary. Especially today, and so everything will be more and more in the future when we really have more and more jobs that are looking for less physical strength and more intellectual capacity. I must admit that we also support the idea of including in this group pensioners those who receive family pensions, and what is proposed by this law. They have so far been excluded from that right, and it is obvious that the interest in such work exists. So, since 2018, when it is as the proposer in the explanation says that the number of pensioners working has tripled, but on the other hand, let's look at the figures and let's see what that trend says. This triple number of pensioners working is 17,690 and it is still a relatively small figure because if we currently have a million and a half employees in Croatia, there is about 1% of that figure. So 1% of the total number of employees are pensioners who have decided to work behind retirement and thus contribute to this one imbalance that we have on the labour market. The basic idea should certainly be that all those who want and can do it after retirement can actually do it without being, perhaps, in such a picturesque way, in a minus. What's our problem in Croatia, it's small pensions and besides that financial component, I'm sure it's for the pensioners, so the financial component is still working, earning, slightly improving it all together, that it's important and psychological. People at the age of 65 are no longer older people, and their involvement in social flows is extremely important, the ability to continue to be active and contribute, is certainly developing with them pleasure, self - respect and a general mental, emotional state of these people. This unfortunate crown and I, every time I have the chance to say, I don't agree that we're in a new normal, I absolutely think we're living abnormally, that some people we've met with masks so when I hope, one day, we won't have to wear those masks anymore, and when we meet someone on the street, we won't say hello for the simple reason that we knew him or her just the masks. I do kind of hope so, but that's what I said last year, that 2022 will still be the crown for a free year, but it depends on us and everything and it's another topic that we had a chance to talk about yesterday and still. I think it's just respect, that mental, emotional state of people is extremely important. Behind this unfortunate crown we will see the consequences of both young people and young generations, but surely, what I am absolutely sure is, and that this is also the consequence of the great effect on the pensioners who were at home, who could not see their loved ones, and this way that you actually involve someone in the labour market is extremely important. And therefore, as has already been said, they were the exclusive beneficiaries of a family pension which on average have fewer pensions than the average pension in Croatia and more than 20% are at risk of poverty, but there is also another data that I would like to especially highlight, and that is more than 90% of the users of family pensions are women. From the well-known data that I'm not going to go into right now, here, right now there's a little more women in the assembly than our male colleagues, but that would be something else to talk about. Women retired, and in the case of a family pension, it is those whose married or out-of-marriage partners died and they are at special risk of poverty and social exclusion. When there is any campaign for parliamentary elections, I think that parties, regardless of whether they are in the right part of spectrum or the left part of spectrum, somehow advocate and talk about this one family pension that is defined in another way, in the way that it is defined in some other EU countries, which means that you can also have part of your pension of the deceased spouse or out-of-marriage partner. I think the time has come, regardless of all promises, I have been listening to those promises for ten years, regardless of all promises, to really make a quality analysis and that we have such a single proposal in our own, therefore, legislation. I have to admit that there are no big illusions that it will be almost, but I deeply hope that, without three years, for the next three years without a choice, that it may be one of the things ahead of the election, but let it be. That's very important. It is extremely important for all those who are still using this family pension and who are truly at risk of poverty, to have the opportunity to have part of the dead partner’s pension along with their pension. Likewise, the 2018 indicators tell us that yet not many pensioners have decided to retire and work. What we should really do, we have a labour problem, this labour force problem will still be, we have a problem with those who are also physically because it's impossible to work beyond retirement, but we also have those needs where possible. It is therefore important that we make this law really possible and open that possibility for a number of pensioners, but what is extremely important and what should be, and this is in the portfolio of this ministry to really offer different fans and different employment opportunities. One of the things that we are at the bottom of the EU scale, which is lifelong education, is that you are educated for other professions, requalifications, but that will be the topic, I hope, some other debates. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55683	He will now speak on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, dear colleague Majda Buric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55684	Thank you, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear representatives of the Ministry of Labour, the pension system, family and social policy and HZMO, respected MPs and MPs, so this proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Pension Insurance Act with the final proposal of the law suggests that family pensioners can also work half the full-time and also receive the full amount of pension. Only 5 articles of the law are amended and completed to increase social security, as well as to reduce the risk of poverty. Just to remind you, when we talk about family pensions, we are actually talking about pensions that a member or family member or family member can achieve after the death of an insurance or pensioner, of course under the terms of the prescribed law, and the user is not necessarily just a widower or widower, but they can also be other categories, family members who are also prescribed by law. The continuation of the expansion of pensioners who can also work and receive pensions is envisaged primarily by the HDZ electoral programme just over a year ago. In addition, the work of pensioners enters the programme of work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia from 2020 to 2024 and other strategic documents such as the National Recovery and Resistance Plan from '21. Until '26. and the National Development Strategy until 2030. In addition, a longer stay in the world of work means a higher pension. I must mention that the average retirement pension for pensioners with 40 and more years of employment is without international contracts according to the latest data of 4.780 kuna, which is a share in the average salary of 67.5%. However, long-term benefits in the world of work are not only economic or financial but it also improves the quality of life in general. And it's important that people make sense of the need for a longer stay in the world of work and that they can and if they really want to work. I would like to remind you that the 2018 pension reform further extends the cycle of pensioners working and receiving pensions to early retirement beneficiaries and long-term pensioners. One of the outcomes of this pension reform is that we today have nearly 18,000 pensioners in the Republic of Croatia who are also receiving pensions and who are doing what it means that pensioners show both the need and the interest in working with pensions and the longer stay in the world of work. Today, in the Republic of Croatia, almost all categories of pensioners can work, and after this law enters into force, so after 1.9, family pensioners who have a total of 216.000 in the Republic of Croatia will be able to work, and who are indeed in all age groups that I will talk about later. I particularly stress here that in the term of Prime Minister Plenkovic's government, all pensions for a million and 240,000 pensioners grew by more than 13%, and for the lowest pensions, they grew by as much as 17%. And the pension payment was never in the Covid crisis either, nor will it be questionable. It's also paid off, so-called. Covid supplement or one-time monetary income for pensioners up to 1,200 kuna. Those who receive pension only in the Republic of Croatia have already received the supplement, and those who receive both Croatian and foreign pensions will receive the add-on of up to 1,200 kuna in this month, so July. This government has also introduced a national compensation for over 65 years of age, amounting to 800 kuna per month. Many governments have promised this, the government of Prime Minister Plenkovic has achieved this which is highly socially sensitive and responsible to those who have fewer, and therefore the lowest pensions with regular indexing and an increase of 3.13%. There is also a further increase in these minimum pensions, an additional 3% increase that you can learn more about in the National Recovery and Resistance Plan. An additional 6-month period was introduced for each child born or adopted, which means that the mother and the father will have an increased pension of 2% during retirement each child. What is also extremely important is that this government has removed inequalities in the pension system, has resolved generation injustice by allowing for a choice on a more favourable peace or only one from the first pillar plus 27% or it from both the first and second pillars with an addition of 27 and 20.25%, respectively, to deposits from the first pillar. The second and third pension pillars, i.e. capitalised and voluntary savings, were also improved and a one-time payment from the second pillar of 15% was made under certain conditions. As for the work of pensioners as I have already said in the Republic of Croatia today, nearly 18,000 pensioners are proof that pensioners appreciate the possibility of a long stay in the world of work and consume it. If we look at both the entrance and the exit of pensioners to the labour market, then it is the number of 32,000 pensioners, however, about 18,000 are active at this time. Most pensioners work in Zagreb and Zagreb County, Primorje-Gorski Kotar County, Istria County and Split-Dalmatia County. What is important to stress is that the most common jobs these people carry out are professional, scientific, technical activities, construction, trade, processing industry, but also health care and social care activities. And when we look at sex, it's more men than women, and it's more men. They are mostly scientists, engineers, technicians, craftsmen, officials, etc. As far as family pensions are concerned, I have already said that today in Croatia it receives almost 226,000 users, its average amount is around 2,100 kuna, less than the average Croatian pension, and family pensions are dominant users. In fact, 93% of all users are women, and in more than 27% of the cases, the surviving spouse or extramarital mate is potentially at risk of poverty, and that percentage increases when it comes to a woman in a single household. Family pensioners according to age criteria are indeed different age groups. In the age group from 25 to 59 years. Almost 9,000 family pensioners. However, the most users are 60 years old. and more and there are almost 80% of all family pension beneficiaries. It should be pointed out here that, with the possibility of working and receiving a family pension, this law has been made possible by the government or the Ministry of Labour, the pension system, social policy and family since 11 months 2020. work to reassess and redefine the model, the existing family pension model or in a fairer way to calculate family pensions to make them more adequate and to affect the increase of social security and to reduce the risk of poverty. Since the pension system is primarily kept at work here, I must first of all stress that in the crisis caused by the Covid-19 epidemic, the government of Prime Minister Plenkovic protected all workers and employers with timely and adequate measures and thus preserved nearly 700,000 jobs and more than 100,000 employers. This ensures a stable labour market, a stable economy, but also a stable pension system because pensions are also kept at work. And in the most difficult times since the Homeland War because of the strategic approach to crisis management, we continue to record an increase in the number of employees and an increase in average wages and a rise in minimum wages and an increase in pensions. So today, compared to the same day last year, we have more than 50,000 employees and none of this happened in itself but was the result of strategic crisis management. Finally, I would like to say that the HDZ Club will certainly support this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55685	Thank you, too. Now it's Mr. Emil Daus' turn in front of the IDS counseling club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55686	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The very idea of allowing anyone to do so and to welcome her, of course the IDS will support this bill. But the reason for the proposal may lie partly on, at least, one wrong basis, and these basics are very low pensions that make pensioners try to gain additional income, not their freedom of choice and their desire to work at the end of their working life. And the government solves some of the consequences, but it doesn't solve the essence of the problem. The bottom line is that there's not enough working-age population, that we came from three workers from the '90s to one pensioner, today on just 1.25 workers per pensioner. And of course there are fewer children today, there are fewer families, but did it seem enough to minimise this by solving the causes, not only of course, this government but all the governments of the 30s, and the causes in those 30s. It was much, one more beautiful than the other, than the conversion and privatisation of the biggest robbery in the history of this people, the honor of the exceptions that showed that it could be done in quality, but we generally know the consequences of the economy, corruption at all levels, in all the pores of society, to express myself more freely than that hens, to organised crime, slowness and ineffectiveness of a huge and threefold state system, 255,000 employees in the state and public sector, whether that figure is correct, whether it is not, for the sake of discussion and whether it is necessary, whether it is not, but that it should be faster and more efficient. And all of that, and a lot more, has caused what is actually one of the key problems of evicting a working-age population of all professions and professions, just the last 8 years. About 300,000 citizens, when we join that move from the '90s for famous reasons, then we really come to an alarming number of working-age residents. And related to this also not only now but all these years is the chronic lack of vision of new economic and social policies with a view to 2050, not in 1941. And what they cannot recognise in public policy for at least 20 years is a chronic lack of state and leaderial decisions that mean and currently unpopular measures that are politically filling less, but solve problems in the long term. And when all this is put together, we get such a devastating result, and then it's no wonder the young mind is running out of the country, that we're getting out of the profession, qualified masters, doctors, teachers. We therefore believe that the quality of the resolution of all these needs a complete reform not only of the pension system but of the entire system. We actually need Croatia's reform as a whole, we need an orderly state. I just don't know yet, at least I don't see who's gonna do it. In developed countries, when up to 3 employees of a pensioner already panics, they want to reform the pension system. In Croatia we came to 1.25 workers on a pensioner and we are still engaged in cosmetic procedures, with a county where there is one worker on a pensioner, we also have a county where there are more pensioners than workers. And now, as a result of all of the contributions to pension insurance cover only 60% or approximately 60% of the pension costs, the rest of about 16 billion kuna is complemented by the budget, the one that was recently planned with a minus 17 billion kuna. Comrades and colleagues, respected ministers live in a new time that requires new social and economic models. The existing pension system has an entire century, 70 years ago there in the 50s in the Republic of Croatia we had almost nine workers on one pensioner, but there is no more, "times pass," there are not many large families like the former, there are not enough children to become active during a few years, and 35% of Croatian citizens between 15 and 65 are economically inactive. There are also at these ages and in the European countries inactive but it is about 20%. Is anyone thinking about it? Of course, it will not only solve the problem, and it may ease it in a transition to new decisions and solutions. And it's not five to twelve, it's twelve and five because the system shoots at the seams because there's no magic wand that's the responsibility of all of us right, left and right and right in the middle, the most government right now, but all of us who are doing this society because to express ourselves a little more vividly, if this continues what you're about to offer to the pensioners instead of retirement? Take your days off. I repeat, we need Croatia's reform as a whole, including unpopular measures where necessary, including difficult strategic decisions. Whoever dares to do so will save this society, not only the pensioners, but society as a whole, and my personal support will surely have it. Many other countries also have problems with the number of elderly people compared to the working active population, especially Europe. Europe is old, but is constantly introducing new measures, concrete measures to help new economic trends, new industries, young families, beginner workers. I'm not saying it doesn't seem in Croatia, but it's not enough, and what might be the basis of everything has a purified system, they have a refined healthy society with clear criteria, standards, a model based on profession, development, efficiency, not by grandmother and uncles. Now this is the thinking and action expected of people who manage the system, not cosmetic moves, but essential reforms. That's what the IDS expects from this government, we haven't even welcomed them before. And let the work of pensioners or family pensioners determine the number of hours absolutely that, we do not see why it has not been until now, but this will not solve the problem of more than 1.2 million pensioners in the Republic of Croatia. The problem will only be solved if the pensioners have pensions with which they can live with dignity every month, and I repeat, Croatia needs to be reformed as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55687	Thank you, too. Mr Dario Hrebak will represent the views of HSLS and Reformers on this final bill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55688	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President of HS. HSLS and our club support such a legal proposal entirely. In fact, we need to be realistic today, we have two structural problems related to the topic that we are talking about right now, the first problem is that by ageing the population and low pensions we come to a problem that we have too many people in the pension system, and on the other hand, the number of people who pay contributions to the same pension system doesn't grow or grow slowly, unemployment decreases, the economy is growing in the years to come will be even more pronounced. Here we heard from the minister that practically this year we almost leveled with the record low unemployment rate from 2019, which was then record, and employment was also growing despite the crisis slowly but growing. Now, we are coming up with a key problem, an assessment of GDP growth in this year is bigger than we planned, the same growth is probably more likely to be expected next year, I suppose it will be in the next two to three years and, of course, it will all lead to a great need for labour, and that will also significantly determine the intensity that the Croatian economy will grow in the next five, seven or ten years. Today, we should say openly that pension contributions are no longer contributions but in some ways they have become taxes because in order to pay off pensions today, you have to seize the tax revenues of the state budget, the state budget and directly from such election tax revenues pay off pensions, which is long-term unsustainable. Many experts, we have heard various projections of some talking about the 300,000 workers that Croatia needs now in the system in order for the system to be sustainable and that it could work and that the economy could grow much faster than it is today or even faster than some optimists might want. This is a major problem for this country, and we only have left to find this labour shortage in foreign markets, although this is questionable to what extent we can do so through work permits for foreigners and which is essentially an educational structure of the same foreign markets of potential pools that enable workers to do so either from the neighbourhood or from remote countries such as Nepal, India, etc. This law is a good direction for Croatia to go, one good contribution will certainly give big problems, it will not be crucial, but it will be one good direction, although in our opinion it should be even more courageous. What else would we like to add, and what do we think that in the coming laws, which will further reform the entire system should think? Namely, there are other groups of pensioners to be counted on and which could also be stimulated, without being suspended from pensions that they receive on the labour market, in particular I mean pensioners of various retirement groups, but of course many of the younger ones who can still make their big contribution to the labour market and of course who want to, don't put anyone on the labour market unless he wants to, but I personally believe that there exists with good stimulation and a large number of pensioners who would return to the labour market if the state so stimulated them because they themselves are aware that they would thus further improve their social status. I don't see why the state would drive people who want to work and who can work not to get involved in the labour market, of course, it's important to stimulate them as I said and continue to pay off their pension. This, but also future laws that are being announced, which will mean further reform of the pension system and the labour system should think about how we can further curb what we all know exists, which is working on black. Because we can't pretend that working on black, especially in the retirement population doesn't exist, it certainly exists, and neither the pensioners nor the system have any long-term benefits from that work on black. Therefore, it is necessary to make and set up a system so that people work as voluntarily as long as possible, that a group that will not be suspended is expanded if they decide to continue work because I believe that we can also contain additional work on black. Of course, we have to make one conditional distinction here, and I'm going to say it openly without hesitation, the conditional difference between the public and the private sector. In fact, the private sector should be laid down in such a way that there are no conditions for them, and in public there should be conditions and conditions for the very deficitous interests that we really need, from doctors, military, police and all that we need for both Schengen space and border defence, but also a specific type of particular interests that the public sector needs. All in all, I think that this way and this direction that this law proposes, we will, of course, support it, give one good direction, but also open some small door towards what we all know to exist, according to what we all know would be good, but no one still dares to open up these issues, so that we fully open and liberalise, stimulate people from all retirement groups, I say especially those younger lives to re-enter the labour market, to give their contribution to the country, to their country in that same labour market and thus further stabilise the system that is really hard to maintain at this point. In any case, the Ministers will go and our club will give you support regarding this law, which today is our topic of debate in the assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55689	You, too. Mr Davorko Vidovic will represent the SDP Club's views. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55690	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, respected ministers and associates. At first, I would like to say that the SDP will support this law and will support it partly for those reasons, which the minister also pointed out in his opening statement, but also for some other reasons which may have been less focused in this reasoning. In fact, the key purpose of the adoption of this law or the purpose of the Minister's presentation here is in some way the social protection function and the improvement of the social position of one part of the pensioner, in this case the beneficiaries of the family pension, while mentioning the budgetary benefit of such a working engagement of the pensioner, and in some ways it seems to me in a third place or more marginally, an emphasised, highlighted question to say so of market-based labour reasons for the adoption of such a law. In this final aspect, I would like to warn both ourselves and the public more prominently. Croatia is simply not able to Alimentate all its needs as a country, as a state, not in retirement, not in health, not in other sectors, and by the rate of employment of its population, Croatia is located in one of the three last places in Europe. We are convincingly in the last place when it comes to employment older than 55 years. and this is for a country like Croatia or any other country simply an amazing, incredible loss, I would say the most high-quality substance in the use of resources that a society can have in the first place, and that's, that's people. Such luxury and such dispersion is actually something that is acceptable and I would say that in front of this government, but also to all other governments, it's actually a task to define ourselves clearly and to clearly identify ourselves for historical and other reasons, because we actually want to do business policy, work systems and what we want with the pension system. When it comes to labour policy and employment, I would go from the principle that I would have to say to be universally accepted for exactly the reason I mentioned, which is the principle of paraphrasing that one action that went "let them hear" 20 years ago, the principle of "let them work". All those in this country who want, can and will do and who have someone to hire them should do so in the easiest way possible without the many obstacles that exist in Croatian legislation, in our rules, regulations, which in fact make it difficult to do so in all ways. In fact, the Anecdote story is what was called those nannies, the Nanny Act, which was made so that the basis of this law hired 3 or 4 nannies in Croatia because 100 obstacles were put in place, they had to have, I don't know, special toilets, special rooms, graduate colleges. They're guardian aunts. It's no substitute for kindergarten. Similarly, many obstacles are being made to the employment of people from students to pensioners. If we were to approach that principle, we could be angry that even though the trade unions were to mention it and always with them in the conversation and the arguments about it, Germany, in its own time 20 years ago, introduced a small business law within those Harc reforms where it was understood and accepted that there were decent jobs in every country, full-time jobs, undefined jobs, and that there were also occasional, temporarily what we call preeminent employment that could be regulated and significantly more flexible than when it comes to employment and when it comes to tax policy, when it comes to regulations, protection of work, etc., it would not be bad for me if we simply recognized that fact and made it easier for people to work. Someone here mentioned work on black. At this point, according to some of my calculations, at least 100,000 children are being guarded because they are not in kindergarten. Who are you guarding? They're mostly younger pensioners, they're women from 60 to 70 who are still in very much this one have great working potential. They're also women who care about old members. We say 65+, 65 and 85 or 95 is not the same thing. They care, they take care of the gardens, they take care of the.../incomprehensible/... household, and that work is not recorded anywhere, it's well paid, but it's work on black or gray that needs to be legalized, it needs to be made possible. In fact, the proposal for this law highlights this social protection character that should enable family pension recipients to be employed, but is taking away their right to a minimum pension, which can be extremely detimulative for these people to be employed at all. In this case, I might be willing to make a difference if it weren't for their right to be taken away, as it would be, I think we'll go as a club with an amendment to allow people to work full-time, but only if of course it's temporary, occasional or seasonal affairs. Because let the 80,000 foreigners that we need each year at this time cover most of the works in construction, but most of the tourism, catering, food preparation services, etc., where a good part of our pensioners, younger pensioners work, can work or shop, and make it possible for them to work, if they have already come to the sea to be a maid or I don't know an assistant worker in the garden of this hotel so that he can work full-time because it's a job that would simply be invaluable if it took four hours just, and in doing so, we would have to either cheat, break the regulation, etc., so to think about it and in this sense we're going to invest the amendment. When it comes to this social protection moment, I would also like to point out if the principle of this working policy is allowed to work, let people work, then the principle of pension policy should be the absolute principle of full social sustainability of pensions. So to ensure that people can live decently and with dignity from their earned pension on any basis, on any basis. Croatian laws have regulated these pension rights in different ways, and they must ensure a decent life for people. The worst reason to hire an elderly person is because there is nothing to live on so that it can improve this one to ensure a minimum of existence. Much more important would be the motive for people, to realize that people who have long been active, who work to have a very positive impact on their health, on their sense of social acceptance, values, importance, that motive would be because most of these people will work on these preeminent auxiliaries anyway. A very small number will be included as advisers, such as those who will transfer experiences, knowledge etc., but we must appreciate the large capital they have older because there are a number of prejudices that people of a certain age can't do jobs because they are either intellectually or otherwise sub-capacitated to follow trends. These are delusions that have no basis for truth. Older workers learn as quickly as younger proven, not as children, but one of 50, 60 as well as the one of 30. These people can make huge contributions to society and only seriously, responsible societies will approach with the greatest attention to their own values, in their citizens, in their people who can contribute to society as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55691	Thank you. We're moving on to individual debates. It's Mrs. Anka Dark Taritash's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55692	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues, when we approach a problem, I always think about the problem the way scientific articles are written. Then you have to have some keywords and then somehow pull out the keywords and I try to kind of take a stand and define it. Here, when it comes to this problem, the key words would be small pensions, the disproportionateness between the number of our fellow citizens or us who are working and those who are receiving a pension and the great need for additional labour, and those three key words should be answered and tried to give an answer. As I already said on behalf of the club, this is one way to help those who really have small pensions, but with that financial moment is extremely important and the social, psychological moment for people to be satisfied, but I'd love to, and have a feeling like you know that fire burns, or we have a fire and a big fire, and with a pot of water then only some of the arms we have there are a little bit of shutting down, but that's better than having nothing. But for some things, a serious step should be made and a serious story defined. What we have a problem in Croatia and which should see how it can be solved, and every reform is painful, there is no reform that is not painful, and that is why people are difficult and decided to reform because it is incomparably better to talk about reforms than to do them, and it is good to have someone else's backyard and not their own. What I'd like to say is that we've all touched the problems of working on black. So, a large number of women because, as we have the data 90% of women is a beneficiary of a family pension, a large number of women decide to work on black and that's what needs to be the interest of the state, which is that this black work is reduced to the least possible measure because from that work on black you benefit because you get those who do it get some additional means to make life easier because of those 90% of women who use family pension are 27% in danger of poverty or not to say poverty, and they are forced to work because other options do not exist. For that reason, it's good to have this kind of amendment and the addition of the law, but it's never sort of solved until the end, somehow we always stop halfway because it's good to read the numbers always. As I have already said the result of 2018 when it was introduced that you can work on pension for up to four hours is about 1% of those who work today use it, so from the employees use it all together. There's one thing that came up I think it's time to think a little bit about seeing what and how, they're your pensions under special regulations. 175,000 pensioners or every seventh pensioner uses their pension under special regulations. I won't list them now if I have too little time, and I don't have to include it in this topic yet, but some other EU countries also have pensions according to special regulations and it's not our wetlands, but our wetlands are when you see how much we have together, that's the first thing. And the other thing is when you see that the number of pensioners by special regulations instead of getting smaller every year, the number of pensioners is increasing every year. What I really want to say is, for us, for our pension system and for what we have, we need serious reforms and we are aware of that. Serious reforms do not live on Mark's square on either side, and of course the government does not live on either side of this House, because these decisions should come. This is a drop in the sea, you're going to have as much help as those who are using family pensions, and as I've already said most of them are women, decide on this, and how many of them will remain on that old model of one work on black and gray economies, then we'll have a chance maybe in a year or two to see it. But it would certainly be a good idea for that beauty to be able to expand people's work. People want to do let's let them work and make their work legal, or really be right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55693	Thank you, too. You have two replicas. The first line was requested by Mrs. Nemett.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55694	Thank you. Dear MPs. From 1990 until today, we have a socio-social phenomenon mainly in the Istrian County and Kvarner area, and it is called Badanti. Badants were women who were forced to go to Italy because of their small pensions or small incomes and to be nurses, cleaning women, and to do a number of other jobs. These are women who have really helped their families to live a somewhat normal life, and the question is, what have they done to themselves? We have not solved this phenomenon with these changes and additions and these laws that we have passed so far, these women are forced to work. Today we offer the possibility for pensioners to make extra money, but we haven't solved the problem why they unfortunately have to do so today.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55695	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55696	Thank you very much. So what you've indicated is really a problem for one part of the Republic of Croatia. These women there are working on black and I'm sure that this amendment and the addition of the law won't make them change it into something else, and we have to take care of some other parts of the Republic because somewhere else they go to work over the summer when it was tourism and there was a need. We need to be aware of these facts and we can never iron everything by law, but let's iron or iron some things we know, which we know are a problem because they too are forced, so they must, they can't, from this life, be aware that sooner or later they can come into conflict with the law no matter where. Therefore, these problems need to be approached, and we do not systematically, from case to case.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55697	Thank you. Mr. Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55698	Honorable MPs. In your speech in your debate, you mentioned that we should reform the pension system, but let us not forget that this reform is impossible unless we reform public administration, health reform, education reform, a different approach in the economy, different incentives to economies, etc., etc. We can't make that reform unless we've done everything else, and that's where we haven't even started yet. There's the problem. We keep talking about the consequences, but we're not talking about the causes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55699	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55700	Thank you very much, colleague Pavic, for your replica. So we live all the time in the weeds and we always solve the problem the moment we have a problem and then we recognize it or we don't recognize it and we do it with some kind of short-term measure. Reforms are such a handsome word and we all enjoy using it, but let's just tell ourselves if we're ready for them, if we want to make them. Because for certain reforms should be a consensus for everyone, which is impossible, but for some things should be and I don't think that always, you can solve things completely, and you can sort things out in part. When we talk about this partial solution, I did not accidentally cite these pensions according to special regulations. So these pensions, according to special regulations, went where they shouldn't go. Let's try to get out of it and let's do it a little bit. We'll take it one step at a time. [[Thank you. Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55701	Thank you, ma'am. Dark-Taritash. You don't have any more replicas. It's Mrs. Devereaux's turn. Majda Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55702	Thank you, esteemed vice president of HS, respected ministers with associates, respected MPs and MPs. So by teaching what I've already said, I'm going to keep talking based solely on the fact of the pension system with an emphasis on family pensions. The Croatian pension system, as you all know, is three-stage, however, also rests on the system of generation solidarity, so I will also touch labour markets, i.e. employment. Peace is often seen as something that is healthy for granted, as something that comes in itself, but that is not so, pension is the right that is achieved on the basis of work, contributions, internships and capitalisation, if this is the second pillar. Family pension as we have already had the opportunity to hear is that pension that members or family members can make after the death of an insurance or pensioner, of course, under the conditions prescribed by law. This is not necessarily just a widow or widower but could be other members of the family who are also, prescribed by law, from children to stepdaughters, abstentions, etc. Today, in Croatia, the family pension receives almost 216 thousand users who are open to the possibility of working half full-time and receiving full-time pensions. With the aim of a long stay in the world of work that is imperative, with the aim of increasing social inclusion, but also to reduce the risk of poverty and those who want and who can work, they will also have the opportunity to do so. The 2018 Peace Reform extended the circle of pensioners who can work and be retired to early retirement and to long-term insurance pensions, so they are users who are 60 years old and 41 years old. And once these changes are adopted and complemented, they will be able to operate almost all categories of pensioners, except for disabled pensioners with complete incompetence to work. I would like to stress that the pre-election programme of the HDZ has announced a further expansion of the circle of pensioners who can work and receive pensions more than a year ago, and, teachingly, the work of pensioners is entering into the strategic documents of the Government of the Republic of Croatia's programme, the National Recovery and Resistance Plan and the National Development Strategy. In addition, all these documents state the objective of a fairer calculation of family pensions in order to increase adequateness, and we know that it is from the 11th month. Last year, an active and working group working on this issue. I reiterate that in the past 4 and a half years, Prime Minister Plenkovic's mandate has absolutely increased all pensions by more than 13%, while the lowest, which is receiving about 270 thousand of our citizens, has increased by about 17%. For comparisons, only 4.6% of pensions increased throughout the government's mandate from 2011 to 2015. Peace is kept in jobs, so if we promote two periods of global crises, which is the period of '11. By '15, the economic crisis and the period of health crisis, or the crisis caused by the Covida-19 epidemic, then we see in fact different crisis management models. The numbers are really irrefutable, as are the results. While the government is in office since '11. Until '15. achieved a flood of unemployment of nearly 400 thousand unemployed, in fact 384 thousand in February 2014 despite the existence of a job-preservation measure, which was then not activated or consumed and was achieved and realised for only 4000 users throughout the period of '11. Until '15. This government has, in turn, maintained a stable labour market, a stable pension system by strategic approach and strategic management of serious and responsible policies, and one by safeguarding the lives and health of all our citizens. Why am I saying all this? Because the pension system is also preserved by work Places, i.e. a stable labour market, which is this government of the Intruder: The Time of Mrs. Buric, the Time./... Thank you. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55703	But you'll be able to make up for it because you have replicas.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55704	I will.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55705	Mrs. Anka Dark Taritash, first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55706	... [[Speech is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55707	No, no, you can't be the one, no, no, it's somebody else.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55708	Everything's fine. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, counterpart Buric, so what is really a fact, which is that 90% of women use family pensions. The fact is that these are extremely low pensions and that it's hard to live on and we don't need to be very smart about it. One of the solutions that is possible is so-called a new family pension model where there is a part of the pension, different, late partner regardless of the married, single. Different countries have different models. That way it would actually make it easier for someone to retire. At the end of last year, a task force was established, I guess there are some projections and everything. You've been in this system for a long time, and I'm interested in how realistic it is to expect that, in the term of office of this government, we actually see such an amendment and addition of the law or the new law that will define it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55709	Thank you very much. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55710	Thank you, Mrs. Dark Taritash. What I can repeat is that a working group to review the family pension model was established in 11 months 2020. The working group has continued meetings, analyses the data and what has been promised by the HDZ pre-election programme will in any case be achieved. So, if I'm not mistaken at 1.1.2013, in 2023, I apologize, these provisions should be in force.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55711	Thank you. Mrs Anita Pocrnic Radosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55712	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Buric, in the last part of the debate you also looked back on the labour market but here is the opportunity to comment on the latest data. A day ago, two HZMO data were made on the number of insurance companies, which is work-active insurance, so persons who are employed and pay a pension contribution on 30.6. It is significant that 5 months in a row there is an increase in the number of insurance companies or the number of employees. It is 3.5% higher compared to last year on the same day, and when we look at the comparison with the prepandemic 2019 year, 2.529 insurance companies were recorded less than a few days ago. It means how you comment on these indicators and whether they infuse at least a little optimism in the future movement on the labour market in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55713	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55714	Thank you, Mrs. Radosevic. As I said, the government of Prime Minister Plenkovic was very brave and bold only one day after the devastating earthquake in Zagreb had already implemented a measure to preserve jobs that were used only during the first 2 months of use by more than 600,000 workers and about 100,000 employers, today it is about 7,000 preserved jobs. In view of these measures, we today have a million and 593 thousand insurance workers. We have an increase in the number of employees if we look at today compared to the same day last year it's almost 54,000 more employees. So a stable labour market, a stable economy is also a prerequisite for stable pensions, and they really are.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55715	Thank you Mrs. This one has no more replicas, thank you very much. Mrs. Dalia Oreshkovic is on her way. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55716	Thank you, Chairman. Fellow MPs and MPs, I support this law but I strongly dispute and criticise the entire system. As a political orientation party, we support a flexible labour market, and indeed anyone who has the will, desire, strength and health that he can and wants to do so should, in any case, be able to do so without harm to their already acquired rights from some past work. In principle, it is good, and in this sense we support this law. However, what this law seeks to achieve, and this partly stems from its reasoning, therefore there must not be a mask behind which it hides that there is a whole series of very, very serious problems in our system. Both in the social security system and in the pension insurance system without talking about labour market problems. When it comes to pensioners who, during or during their retirement, can do something additional, the first picture that comes to mind is about that film of the Precinct, I don't know if you might have viewed Robert De Niro as a man in retirement after his wife's death as being quite lonely, but he has a good standard of living and is employed by a young, successful entrepreneur played by Anne Hathaway. If that were what Croatian society would look like, then this law would actually be great. However, the reality in which we bring this law and the reality that our pensioners live is far, far from it. First of all, I'm going to say something about the social security system. The promoter himself says that one of the motives is, so this law actually enables workers to enter the labour market of family pensions, they are, and they are, in a larger proportion, women, so additional work enables them to actually reduce the risk of their own poverty through the acquisition of certain additional incomes. So what does this say about guaranteed social security and Croatia's status as a social state written in the constitution? He's saying something that doesn't actually work right in this social benefits system. Since I have already mentioned the risk of social poverty, it is a fact, which is the data that Eurostat has identified by following the movement of the pension system of various countries between 2010 and 2019, that in Croatia 28% of pensioners are at risk of poverty, and that is to say that both the applicant and counterpart Buric, who spoke on behalf of the SDP Club of Representatives, are misrepresented by the changes to the law that the government is wrong by the reform of 2018. eliminate injustices, irregularities, inequalities stemming from an existing pension system. If the pensions our pensioners receive are not such that they actually guarantee such a dignified age and respect for what they have paid into the pension system, then something with this country is seriously wrong. And when we talk about labour market problems, they are partly reflected in the reasons why this law is being passed. It is said that this will actually allow older people to transfer their knowledge and experience to, to younger workers, which is both in principle and well, and I would like to see myself today at high age in some way contribute to the work of being personally enjoying the work. However, if we look at the statistical figures on the occupations in which we see pensioners working and if we look at which counties we have the highest percentage in this way of employees then we will see that, as the HDZ representative identified, scientists, engineers, doctors, therefore high-level workers, which means that their jobs are very necessary. However, young and working were forced for other social and political reasons, with a wave of corruption to move out of the country.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55717	Thank you very much. You don't have a replica. It's Mr. Josip Boric's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55718	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here's something I want to say about this amendment to the Pension Insurance Act. I think that the overall policy of this government in the previous term and in the first year of this mandate clearly shows that the path has long been drawn, has its own good direction and that this government wants to work on the benefit of this population and really makes it a great opportunity to make their lives easier for them in the sense that it can provide them with what they can actually carry on their own budget, but what this can give maybe the world of work itself. So I think that this unanimous support if I read it well in this law today clearly shows that this expansion of the right to work for 4 hours for family pensioners is something that here contributes to this population because we live in a time when obviously the workforce is getting more and more at its price. We need a large number of workers, and especially now here we can say in this season that is at the level of our expectations, almost 30-40% better than last year's and closer to the 2019 results. When we look at certain statistics, it is clear that we are very close to what we had when we talk about the number of insurance companies, 2008. When we first had over a million and 600 thousand insurance companies, here's yesterday's data of a million and 593 thousand clearly shows that we could cross that largest number very quickly and that the insurance company with everything that's been going on in these 13 years. of that time and possible migration to outside and other countries, as well as migration to the Republic of Croatia, along with a large number of workers coming from other countries to the Republic of Croatia, to work clearly that the state is a bit of a catch for those contours that we should have when we talk about the labour market. I think this ministry is doing its job well, unifying the same one to which it means the Ministry of Labour and Pensions added family and social policy to do so over the past year, and I think that policy is really giving its results in this area, clearly showing that such a legal proposal can get the support of all policy options in our assembly. I think here we were talking about some statistics, really when we're comparing ourselves to a time like 5 years ago. when we took responsibility for these citizens and for this country, a clearly visible trend of nearly 196,000 more employees than we had in 2013, and the mandate of this government itself was almost 156,000 more insurance workers. This is a good trip, and we believe that this summer, but hopefully after summer, we will not only stay on seasonal employment that is important for the tourist season, which means as many insurance companies as possible so that we can work on the even better financial status of the retirement population. When we see what we have heard more than once today, it means that we have 216.000 family pensioners with an average pension of 2096 kuna, it is clear that every addition to that pension certainly contributes to their status and home budget and that the need for their employment is. There are also those who say that it may not be good in some segments to do competition, and I see that perhaps, especially in the transport sector, taxi traffic, where certain activities are taking place in this sense, and that ministry must obviously do part of inspection controls to determine what is there and what is happening here, and that this possibility which is given is not being abused by the entrepreneurs themselves, so that then those who may be looking for their first job or work as a work for their full pay and for their lives are not being threatened by these opportunities and I think that it is quite solved. In all, I say the message is that we want to contribute to our pensioners and that what happened this year, when for 800,000 pensioners, 600 million kunas were paid in the range of 1200 to 400 kuna Covid supplement was also a big contribution to each pensioner because this pandemic also made its impact in that population, of course in every family, and I think that it should simply continue in this way, looking for solutions that this population can certainly contribute even more to the world of work because it is desirable if they really want it, especially, here, now in seasonal jobs when we lack workers, and this may have been one of the obstacles that made it impossible for a larger number they can also make additional funds compared to what they are now receiving. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55719	Thank you very much. The replica of Mr. Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55720	Thank you very much, Vice President, Honorable Representative Boric, for how much regret I am sometimes here in the Assembly when we want to hear that Croatia is the worst, that the last one, that by all parameters we are the worst, is so pleased when as representatives here we show one consensus in essence about things that are good for Croatia, which Croatia is certainly dragging forward and from this data that you have presented essentially shows what we have been looking for. It has been 7 years since EU accession, and this is where the first results are now shown. Let's be honest, in a new envelope in the Recovery and Resistance Plan, plus regular budget funds, these 6 years Croatia will handle some 200 to 250 billion kunas that will end right here and I think that, by changing the laws, we are significantly encouraging what we want, which is a successful and better Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55721	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55722	Thank you very much, colleague Ivanovic. I said some data, we have a million and 240 thousand pensioners today and compared to the number of insurance companies, it's certain that we have to work even harder to get as many employees as possible because today we have at the Employment Office, if I've had a good look at almost 125 thousand people and 17 thousand jobs advertised, means the need for work that isn't being filled because obviously the season and its uncertainty at the last minute is trying to solve certain problems. What stands before us, this Multi-annual Financial Framework, the NPOO also, as an opportunity and I believe that this Ministry with this minister, of course, and with the entire government, will find opportunities not only in this way, through work, but also again, to re-enlarge the pensions itself that have not been insignificant in the past 5 years, I am talking about 13.5% plus the lowest pensions something more is what the pensioners essentially want, which is that they have as much safety of life, financial incomes and that the government is there to provide them with even this way through the amendments to the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55723	Thank you. Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. Now it's Mr. Eric Fabianic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55724	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. As regards these amendments and additions to the Pension Insurance Act, I can only say - finally. Finally, we correct one injustice against the users of the family pension, and on the other hand, I will say one more word, and that is not enough. So it can always be better or I will explain something that will be an amendment to our club at least in that part of incompatibility or compatibility with employment. In most European states in pension systems, incompatibility between employment and pensions exists. There is. With one exception, and these are family pensions. We've done the opposite so far. Our personal pensions allowed people to be in a working relationship to part-time, and our family pensioners didn't allow it, and they needed it the most. For this reason, I see no reason why we should not allow full-time, or that family pensioners should not be slowed down for part - time. The reason is more so. As a rule, when we think about family pensions, we think about the pension that Grandma inherited from her grandfather because she didn't have a pension and that's what the population found and that's the biggest poverty we have in Croatia in terms of the retirement population, and these women are often hired to clean the hotel just before the tourist season itself, for those hotels that are open to seasonal character, here, I'm referring to something just as an example. So, then as an employer, I sign a half-time contract, and until, basically, I'm paying her a double hour, but de facto only for half the time, so there's a little bit of playing out, and instead of playing it, let's make it legal and give these women full-time, it's a thing of seasonal character anyway. But I'm going to give another example that is a little bit talked about, but it's much more important and much more dramatic, and there aren't many users, and these are family pensions after the death of non-retired people, so a man who's already earned the right to retire than the death of an insurance company. We're talking about a young woman who's 89 years old, who because she has more than three children she's entitled to retire 50 years ago, but who's been prevented from entering the world of work or giving up her husband's retirement who, for example, died in a car accident that's her generation, how long do you think he could have been interned? So, she would receive a coefficient of 0.7, plus the lowest pension, and must support four children. And now let's make it more compatible only for half the time. I appeal, indeed, that we finally pass such a law that we favour the other family pensions to be compatible with the employment relationship even without the age limit because it has most of the European states to which we are calling. Most European states consider labour incompatibility with early pensions and retirement pensions because if someone is receiving an old age pension, then he has actually contributed to his contributions only in 15 years. And he's generationally not solid when he enters a working relationship even though we accept it and let it go without further notice, but this is about a system of generational solidarity, it's our pension system in that first retirement column. Therefore, when we talk about generation solidarity, we can talk about personal pensions, but in family pensions we have to be much more solid, especially because Croatia has one great tradition of family pensions for something that was long ago referred to as "crush communities". When in the village, the woman who remained a widow was assigned to bake bread for the whole village because she had little flour left to feed her children because her husband was gone. This isn't a sexist turnout, it's a pure tradition to see how long we've had a family tradition in family assistance. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55725	Replica, ma'am. Dalia Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55726	Thank you, Chairman. My dear colleague, your presentation, which actually led to a few concrete examples, has prompted me to say that you actually scored what I wanted to say, and I didn't get there, which is that this law is actually clouding the real purpose of its adoption. Do we, through this law, better to protect the users of family pensions, is this the goal, or is it the goal of enabling pensioners to participate more in the labour market to reduce their social exclusion, in order to further contribute to their knowledge to younger generations or to some third, the compensation of labour on the labour market of those younger who left Croatia long ago? And you've also opened up another question that we haven't touched in the debate, which is that all our laws are passed without a proper analysis of the effects of the regulations and without concrete statistics on how many members of the group will be affected by the individual provision, do you have such, such knowledge?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55727	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55728	Thank you. As far as the impact on the labour market is concerned, I'm signing what it says in the text of the bill's reasoning. So it won't have a big impact on the labour market, and that's an assessment. And the second thing, after all, is an evaluation of the next, the next 2. to see what we're on, so, because when we're drilling into the chest, when we talk about increasing the number of insurance companies, it's not exactly because of the number of new employees, but because of that permitting, allowing up to half the time for those who have personal pensions so far and using them, no. So the fact is that it must have affected the labour market more than what is now proposed, no. With that in mind, I think there should be positive discrimination in that part in a way that family favors others, here.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55729	Thank you. You don't have any more replicas. Now it's Mr. Zeljko Pavić's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55730	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Secretary is gone, with associates, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I would say that we are sure to agree with this bill with a few additional additions brought today by counterpart Vidovic and colleague Fabianic, and in this sense we will also write amendments. What really bothers me and it really bothers me that we're talking again about what it was or what it should be or what it should be, excuse me, and it's not. There's a part of a fellow in the assembly that talks and acts like yesterday night's English team. They won, but stealing the Danes doesn't matter. Winning a scam doesn't matter. We cannot go public with such arguments and make such arguments in the assembly. You're talking about 13% pension growth, 17% in the last 5 years, how much is a real pension growth? When we look at the nominal pensions, several kunas grew, several tens of kunas, several hundred kunas. Did purchasing power grow? Are our pensioners more capable of buying more goods? I don't think they did, and that's what we need to talk about. You said that now almost everyone would be able to work. And who's gonna be able to work? Those who can really work, who are capable of working and who are allowed by law. Here's the question, what's going on with the disabled? I asked a friend earlier to send me his retirement notice. His pension is 1.255 kuna. The woman has a minimum of 3,400 kuna. One child is four years old. College, one kid's on 2nd. college, so you see what they can do, and he can't work at all, nor earn. I repeat, there are 1,255 kuna pensions or pensions, and when you add it all together, live with approximately 4,600 kunas. Is that normal? Those are the ones we need to help. I understand and this initiative is good that is stated in this law, but the motives are actually wrong. We here keep solving only the consequences, and the consequences are small pensions and again only for a few of our pensioners, a few thousand, but for those who are most vulnerable we haven't solved the problem. And don't forget that because we haven't solved their problems we put their problems and their families, their children who are forced to go to school and stay in Croatia to move to Ireland, Sweden, Denmark, Norway, Germany and worse to work with the SSS so that they can survive and send their money home to their father and mother, and they get a pension in Croatia so that they can survive in Croatia, we need to talk about it. It would be great if this law only went to solve deficits and that all those pensioners who have knowledge of the deficiting interest that we hire them, but we're going to hire all those pensioners who have nothing to live on, who have to work to survive and there's the problem. Our motives are completely wrong. I don't know if in some next version of the law in some new version that's going to have solutions both for the disabled and their families, we're going to have solutions for that part of the population talked about by colleague Mrak Taritash and we're going to go really into some kind of change, not just in the part of the pension system, but in the part of the public administration and the social and education and health care and everything else that's not right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55731	Thank you. Mrs. Dalia Oreshkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55732	Thank you. Dear colleague. Here's what you're saying is that in fact, the real essence of this law is that we're saving those who are socially endangered because we have the defeat of both social policies and pension insurance systems with pensions that are not worthy of any age, not allowing vital pensioners to continue to do something actively professional. And that actually denied what was said in the debates from the ruling circles that even compared the percentage of pension growth during their government by comparing it with the previous one. So, not once our pensioner who's forced to dig in containers or falls into an example like you said, absolutely nothing means a few percent up or down during this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55733	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55734	Thank you very much. Here's our distinguished colleague mentioned 13% of pension growth and 17% of those with the lowest pensions, but when you put it in context for five years then you're about to drop about 2.5% a year. ... So you know what the price rise, how much did the price of bread grow, how much did the price of milk grow, how much did the price of oil grow? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Retired people can't live on it. We need to be clear. And if we're not going to change that, and if we're not going to make big changes, unless we're going to increase the number of employees to one pensioner won't be good, n for those who are currently retired, and neither for us who are going to retire soon.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55735	Thank you. Mrs. Anka Dark Taritash, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55736	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. He's a colleague of Pavić's. So the problem is significantly bigger and deeper than you can see on the surface. We all agree and affirmably speak well to change the law, well to do something, but that's just the tip of the ice, the problems are much deeper and much more serious. And that's why it's good that you also cited this example, but what I'm sure a terrible lot of pensioners is forced to work and work on black and I'm not sure that this law will make us succeed in this work that they're doing on black today turn into something else, there should be some kind of step and see what can be done there. Therefore, I think it would be good to think about it and see how to reduce this work to black, and this will not work, and we will see how and by ruling the amendments you have announced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55737	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55738	Thank you very much. This proposal is certainly good because look let's start with disabled work, they can't and can't work in some workplaces, but there are certainly jobs where they can work and for such jobs they should be able to get a doctor's certificate. However, they cannot get medical confirmation for any job today, and they cannot work at all, so disabled workers who are retired can no longer work at all. And with pensions in the range of 1,200, 1,500 kuna, we agree that they can't live. Therefore, the reform in that part, the change in that model of some change in the model to change something in the law, to define who, where, how, when he can work, when he can work, under which conditions he can work, would certainly be welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55739	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. And now it's Mrs Grozdana Peric's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55740	Thank you very much. The Honorable Vice President of HS, respected members of the government and the HZMO. Here is the proposal to amend and supplement the Pension Insurance Act, and what should certainly be noted is that these changes contribute to the quality of this law, and in fact, this enables family pensioners to work additionally, or to carry out an additional 4 hours and be in the world of work as long as possible. In the previous period, this was only possible for basic users, or pension insurance holders, which were granted the basis for the rights achieved. In this way, further what I have said to the family pensioners, and there are more than 230,000 according to current statistics, according to the latest data I have, which is when you look at 1/6 of the total people who are entitled to pension insurance. I would point out what are the advantages of this work and in this way that are achieved for holders of such rights. In this way, persons who make these contributions pay the same contributions as any other person employed in both pension and health insurance. What should be further said is that in this system each user may, after a certain period of time after at least one year of work, further request a re-account for a pension and thus suggest that the new pension cannot be lower than the previous pension achieved. Which is another bonus so that pensions can be raised in that way. What I would like to point out is that in the term of this government, when we say for sure that pensions should be bigger, and it should be better if they are bigger, but when we look at that current pension value from January 1, 2021, somebody will say it is a little bit, but it is increasing by January 1st, and then by analogy and July 1st, but also what has increased are the decisions on basics for determining the minimum pension for one year of retirement, and then the basis for determining the compensation for determining the physical damage and the harmonisation of financial compensation due to physical damage, and so there has been an increase. So that's all the mass that needs to be secured. It also increased the decision on the lowest pension to the Croatian defender from the Homeland War in 2021, where it was determined by the lowest of €2.558.25 and it is also important to increase nominal amounts in order to improve the status of all these categories of pensioners. When we are talking for sure, it is important that, in this way, pensioners can be realized and that this number is as high as possible and it is certainly very important that these pensioners also work regularly so that it is not working on black because then it improves overall both in the pension fund and it is allowed to actually have as much quality and orderly state as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55741	Thank you. Mr. Shaschlin's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55742	Dear Vice-President, dear fellow Members, we are sure that these amendments and amendments to the law will, in particular, reflect very positively on the situation in the tourism sector, where we have an increased need for employment and where we expect much better results this year. However, what I would point out is that it is also a need, a great need for additional labour, or a lack of employees in the agricultural sector, mainly in the rural areas of Slavonia, Baranja where I come from, where this lack of people feels and where these changes in some way enables family pension users to further what you have said, to work legally on these jobs mainly in seasonal affairs and all those in agriculture. I'd like to hear your opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55743	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55744	That's right, thank you very much for actually supplementing that segment because it's exactly the strong part that's not covered and that requires additional labour. And in this way it is possible for manufacturers to and can find the workforce, that they can adequately reward it and that they can do it legally as it should be and in this way they can complement the home budgets both in this case and for the family pensioners as well as otherwise the pensioners who have achieved it by their work.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55745	Mr. Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55746	Dear colleagues, you have looked back on, in your debate on the fact that the recalculation of the pension is not. So, about the very application of the regulations that should be passed in the assembly. Yes, it is very important how a certain regulation will apply but I personally do not see that this pension could be less taken into account, if one principle is taken into account, and that is the principle of acquired law. Namely, the family pension is determined by the pension coefficient determined on the basis of prior to that, the personal pensions of the spouse. [[Intruder: Number of members.]] Therefore, it was calculated on the basis of that coefficient. For this reason, any future paid contributions should be separately accounted for and added to what is already a pension that has been calculated, so that it is not disputed. It would be a dispute if we didn't interpret it, we still can't do it from this regulation, we can't see it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55747	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55748	Yes, perhaps not from this regulation, but by analogy, that's how he regulated it for real pensioners or pensioners who have achieved it with their work, but I think it should also be for these family pensioners, because in this way, I think that it would stimulate additionally then that these and such persons really return to the world of work and that the right can then benefit even better. Here's my attitude.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55749	Thank you very much. - Mrs. Crescent. Nuts.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55750	Thank you, Chairman. Dear MPs, in your presentation you spoke of the percentages of pension increases in that you fully deny that these increases and percentages did not significantly affect the standard of living of our pensioners, which other MPs spoke of. But it bothered me that at that time you said that such separations represented one mass that needed to be secured. Well, that's exactly what the problem is. This mass is provided in the state budget due to the imbalance between paid pensions and those going according to certain specific regulations. A change in that ratio would be a real reform that no government has dared to engage so far. And when we talk about that mass from the budget and it requires root changes, there are no signs so far that this government and your parliamentary majority are ready to move in that direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55751	Thanks, time. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55752	Thank you very much. Therefore, when it comes to the total expenditure or the total need to pay for pensions, then what is already colleagues and so far and what we see from the budget is indeed additional than the contributions paid to provide additional funding from other tax sources. And it's a fact that hasn't happened since yesterday. It's been her for many years. In fact, this should not be disputed, it should only be disputed if we do not increase the number of employees who will be able to serve and contribute to the state budget for both pension health and taxes. This is the basis, so that this ratio of 1:27 changes as soon as possible, that's what we all need to strive for.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55753	Thank you. You don't have any more replicas. Now, Mrs. President. Majda Buric will speak finally on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55754	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President HS, the Honorable Ministers, the Honorable Representatives and MPs. Here I finally want to say that I'm actually glad that this very long and intense one, I would dare say, and most of the positive debate has shown that the amendment law and amendments to the Pension Insurance Act actually has a very big support, I would dare say, according to the debates even unanimously. I'm glad we're aware of the longer, the need for a longer stay in the world of work because that ultimately means a higher pension. However, I would like to remind you that an age pension for a pensioner with 40 years and over is an internship without international contracts that it is 4,780 kuna according to the latest data, which is a significant amount and a significant proportion of the average salary of the Republic of Croatia, which is 67.5% and this is not only an economic benefit but also, of course, increases the quality of life. But what's also a fact is that every 5th Croatian pensioner belongs to that category of pensioners. With these changes and additions, we allow family pensioners who are 216,000 to work if they want and if they can work until half full-time and also receive a pension. Users are not just older people, older than 60, who are users of all age groups when talking about family pensions, so they are in the age group from 25 to 59. It's about 9,000. What should also be said is that after the entry into force of this law almost all categories of pensioners will be able to work and also receive a pension. And I will now be taxing them, so who in Croatia can do it now and receive a pension. They're old-age pensioners, long-term pensioners, so that's the one who's 60. Age and 41. staffing, working and receiving pensions can also be used by disabled pensioners due to partial loss of working ability or professional inability to work, early retirement beneficiaries, you remember from 2018. with effect from 1.1.2019, users of age pensions made according to special regulations, police officers, authorised officials, etc., and once this law enters into force they will be able to work and also receive pensions and family pension beneficiaries. And then the question is, who can't work? Only one category that cannot work and can also receive a pension, which is the users of a disability pension with full incompetence, so I stress with full incompetence. As regards today's mentioned and the impact of the employment of pensioners on the labour market and how it will affect it, it will impact positively because we already have such experience since it is already working and is receiving a pension of 18,000 Croatian pensioners. And no young man who enters the labour market should be afraid because the Croatian labour market is stable, but in the past time, let's say, at the time of 2014. When unemployment was almost 400,000 people when there were so many on the market, at the time such a solution would not be good for young people and would pose a kind of threat. However, we today have a stable labour market and that is a positive solution and I am glad that this debate has shown that we all agree on this. The result of the government's policies where I especially need to highlight the active employment policy measures is also a reduction in the number of unemployed young people who have been reduced by more than double. So including pensioners on the labour market won't be any threat, however, it's just a benefit. I can only mention once again that I am glad that this debate has shown I dare say unanimous support for amendments and additions to the Bill on Pension Insurance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55755	Thank you very much. Mrs Dalia Oreskovic will now state the final views of the Centre and GLAS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55756	The chairman, my fellow MPs and MPs. It is undeniable that most clubs and most MPs will support this law and it is not disputed, but it seems to me that again in rhetoric we have passed somewhere, it seems that again ruling has heard nothing of what the opposition has actually pointed to. And one of these things is connected to the thesis presented by the pay phone in front of me in an individual debate, which is that good pensions and pension systems are best kept at work. And what most opposition MPs have pointed to are problems stemming from the labour market and jobs, especially in certain sectors. So, it is not about changing and supplementing this law to anyone in Croatia that because of the work of the pensioners, young people will not be able to come to find their jobs, but it is about that in certain sectors we hire pensioners precisely because young people who are working in the power supply are no longer there. One example is the health sector where we already have 12,000 healthcare professionals today, at least according to trade union and other professional associations in the sector, according to their data, 12,000 people are missing, and then a law like this is actually one of the measures that contributes to solving this problem. However, it is only a short-term analgesic that does not solve the problem of inflammatory processes, and the inflammatory processes are all those structural reforms that need to be implemented, and only one IDS representative spoke about the need to implement them today. So, as long as Croatia does not move towards reforming its judiciary, its general social and political system that will establish a greater balance and greater justice in the system, we will continue to have a major outflow of the highest quality labour force in countries such as Germany and Ireland, and this is a major threat to the stability of the pension system and the survival of the state as such. It is also necessary to take into account what I specifically pointed out in the debate that although this law is good in itself and the text is read, I said what we can compare it with vital pensioners who want to organise their time differently in the old days, however, essentially in reality in numbers this law is not so. He refers to a part of our pensioners who thus save themselves from social poverty. And one of these laws can't actually be passed with praises, and at the same time we can't admit that there's defeat and this severe state defeat of the social security system and some social measures that are left where they're supposed to be. If you regain consciousness and commit to dealing with these problems in some coming period, then we can say that this debate was constructive, and the bill itself was uniformly commended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55757	You, too. Mr Davorko Vidovic will speak finally on behalf of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55758	... that this bill is acceptable to the SDP and that in this sense we will vote in favour, but what I have not been able to say, and which I think is quite important to say not only as the Social Democrats that we care about, and in some way we consider to be speakers and people who protect labour rights in this country, which I hope is not only an exclusive right of left and social Democrats but all of us who work for some kind of public general good, to draw attention to something that can be heard as a sort of, let's say, disputing such a bill. [[Specially enabled.]] I personally read some opinions on the expansion of pensioners' labour rights, which threatens the possibility of competing with the employment of young people on the labour market and objecting that the employment of pensioners can destroy the labour price. I am familiar with the numerous surveys that the first objection does not stand and that in countries where there are more employees, there are younger employees and because it is completely different jobs. And God forbid we as our goal is to hire as many young people as possible on those jobs where the pensioners will be employed. If that's the biggest case, in most cases, I did say temporary, occasional, over-the-top jobs, and there's now what I want to warn you about. Mr. Minister, you are the minister and the work and the pension system and the social policy, it is unusually important that the group of people who are most often forced and motivated to go to work, not to be derailed in any way in any of their labour rights, any. So, to safeguard their dignity, those older citizens of ours who come to work at some shopping mall, a folding shelf, who will work as maids or gardeners in our hotel houses must be fully equal, fully protected and I appeal that maximum attention be paid to those people who appear and will be increasingly on the labour market in these forms, in these forms of employment. When it comes to motives, protection, the interests of these people are not only worth paying, decent safe conditions are important how employers treat these people, because I once again warn, from this place I have said it several times, the position of older people, and workers are often discriminated against by others. So, by age, discriminatory which, through which, rarely, is easily passed, from jokes, from ugly names, etc., to underestimating those people who can give and make their valuable contributions to businesses, in working communities where they are engaged. So, here's another appeal, this is accepted, an appeal whether it will be necessary under the legal these norms to go with some additional protective mechanisms precisely according to these groups or not, or just to control them more closely. We, as a club, will also ask for an amendment to be reported, through this monitoring of the application of this law to what extent this law is implemented and from the point of view of what I am now talking about protecting the rights and dignity of these people.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55759	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS and the Workers' Front, Mrs Katarina Peovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55760	Good afternoon, everyone, here I am only now engaged in the debate, and the decision to engage in the debate is motivated by a certain agreement that I disagree with here. Therefore, the proposed legislative amendments to further extend the circle of pensioners who can work until half full-time and receive the full amount of pension and have their own negative repercussions on family pensioners. It is really said in the explanation that urgent intervention is necessary in order to enable additional income and reduce the risk of poverty for family pensioners. So the question is whether this is the path to go in order to achieve this goal or whether it is necessary to raise the amount of retirement, not to allow the pensioners to work, not to rule out one another, but we still have to ask the question of one another. And secondly, what is said to be quoted, provides additional labour in the labour market due to the pandemic. So here the old flossula repeats that there are no workers in Croatia, so in a country where 300,000 people have moved out, it is claimed that there are no workers and it is completely ignored that there are no workers but workers have emigrated because it is a low labour price. And so it is not true that what is being said here is that there will be no fall in the labour price because the legal initiative itself states it. Not only is this mentioned here, but we also have in the National Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia until 2030 a part that sets out the priorities of implementing policies in the area of decent ageing and the suitability of pensions, so there is a worthy aging in doing it as long as possible, so not as short as possible. And that after a formally retired pensioner, pensioners can have their own miserable property, a decent pension means repairing that pension is said by working out, let's say at the Konzum cash register that social security at age is actually here a question of individual responsibility, risk and that pensioners should still work. Just for comparison, it means here the same thing when it's said that there are very few pensioners working in our country, that someone in Sweden, Denmark, has more pensioners who work for other reasons, so they work. It's not the same, it's not the same situation. For example, with us, a real measure would be a real reduction in working hours, to free jobs, to have the possibility of hiring new people. So let's say Iceland reduced the working week from 40 to 35 hours, productivity didn't fall, so when we talk about what measures would be useful there's no reason to say this kind of measure doesn't take. And here it is meant to say that it is a nice thing to say here that allows pensioners to stay on the famous labour market, which in our case really means lowering the labour price. Because why? Because pensioners under quotes want to work for less and even less will now be jobs for young people, and the continuation of bad pensions for pensioners is here we gave you to work. It is also a practice of both strategy and the political direction in which it is going. I'll just remind you that average pension in December 2020. It was €2.566. So it's a really low, low amount that can't be done too much, that our pension today is barely 39% of the salary while in this dark socialism it was 70% of the salary and that should be the goal, not allowing pensioners to keep working. In early 2021, therefore, the average net pension rate in the average net salary even fell to only 37.4%, for example, in 2019 was the figure that more than 52% of the pensioners with a pension below the poverty line and that there were more than 180,000 pensioners who received a pension of less than 1,000 kuna. So this is where the famous labour force and the labour market are opening up for those who are socially economically at risk and at all, I don't think at all, the strategy itself is saying that, this document itself says that this is about the labour market being fertilized with those who want to work for smaller amounts. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55761	Finally, the minister of labour, pension system, family and social policy Mr. Josip Aladrovic will have the final word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55762	Thank you, esteemed representatives of HS, I thank you for your attention and for your constructive discussion. I truly believe that we are all aware of the need to ensure a greater level of social protection for all our citizens, but also especially for this sensitive group of pensioners who, after the death of a spouse or an extramarital friend, are at increased risk of poverty due to a significant loss of income. Extending the retirement circle that can work with the simultaneous pension payment and on family pension beneficiaries in the same way as regulated for users of all types of age pensions will ensure a higher level of social security and a reduction of the risk of poverty of this sensitive category of pensioners. I would like to point out once again that by enabling work to half full-time, family pensioners will achieve their greater social inclusion in the community and provide additional labour force in the labour market, which I believe is both the desire and the professional, and also the political public. I reiterate that this proposal for a law in the pension system makes an additional contribution to ensuring the special protection of this particularly sensitive category of pensioners. I thank everyone again for the debate, and of course I call on everyone to adopt a bill that will further improve the position of family pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55763	Thank you. You've got one replica of Mrs. Devereaux. Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55764	Dear Ministers, how do you estimate that the emergence of new means of new workers on this famous labour market will affect the labour price? So how could you justify what you're doing here all the time that there won't be a reduction in the labour price if the pensioners who want to work for the lower ones show up, let's say at the Konzum cash register, and most people can't survive that salary, so they don't even take that job but they're going out. Now we will have pensioners who will decide on such a job and agree to this labour price instead of pressing that labour market to raise the price, we will agree to blackmail the market and lower the price just to the pensioners.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55765	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55766	I thank you for asking the question of respected MPs, Peovic. So, as far as labour prices are concerned, so it's not labour prices but labour prices that we have to point out that the main two, two levers that determine the labour price are. One is the offer, the other is the demand for work. The demand for work at this time is greatly increased due to economic activity and is significantly higher than the offer. You can see this by all, absolutely all the trends in the labour market, from the demand for work, from increasing the number of insurance companies or the number of employees, from reducing the number of unemployed, and that is the main determination that determines the price of work. I believe that you have followed the labour price or how the labour price is moving in the Republic of Croatia and continued growth has been noticeable in the past period and we are sure that this segment that is not so large cannot significantly affect the labour price in a negative context. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55767	Thank you, too. You don't have any more replicas. I'm closing the debate, and we're going to vote when the conditions are met and now we're going to have a 13-hour window break, and then we're going to continue to make a statement on behalf of the club of representatives and independent representatives. MEETING IN 12.50 HOURS We move to the next item of the agenda, that is: - Proposal for a Decision establishing an Investigation Commission to establish possible irregularities in post-war reconstruction of houses, apartments and public purpose buildings in the Republic of Croatia; Proposers are 44 MPs and representatives in HS based on Article. 5 and 6 of the Law on Investigation Commissions. Mr. Grbin's looking for a break, probably.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55793	Your Honor, Mr. President. I know it's a little unusual, [[Stanka, right?]] Let me say it. [[Stanka, right?]] I know it's a little out of the ordinary since I'm a proposing on this agenda point, but I have to ask for a break on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club because we hold that there are no conditions to discuss this proposal at this point. For what? Namely, neither the Government of the Republic of Croatia nor the home working bodies were manifested on this proposal, and as we can see, there is no one here who would represent the Government of the Republic of Croatia to know what its position is. I know that the Rules of Procedure on the work of HS allow individual points to be held without being seen, whether working bodies, whether the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but I also know that this is not common in the parliamentary procedure. That's why I'm asking you to set a break and ask the Government of the Republic of Croatia to send a representative because otherwise, I'm afraid this debate is going to be, as I say, lame. I mean, she's gonna miss one important piece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55794	I'll set a five-minute break and I'd ask you just to come here so that, yes, let's discuss this problem a little bit because this one, and I've noticed it, but let's discuss this problem. Okay. On behalf of 44 motionaries, Mr. Pejo Grbin will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55795	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Unfortunately, not the distinguished representative of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, because as I have already said, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has not shown or sent a representative on a proposal for the establishment of this Research Commission. What does that mean? This means that the government of the Republic of Croatia is afraid of what this investigative commission might reveal. And this Investigative Commission, although it deals with our past at first sight, is focused, above all, on our future, and therefore I will start by focusing this speech on what is happening today, what we witness every day, and these are a number of problems that occur with reconstruction in the City of Zagreb, Krapina-Zagorska, Zagrebačka, Karlovačka, and especially Sisak-Moslavina County, because Croatia is currently in the process, perhaps the biggest process it has ever had when we talk about restoring a region after a certain disaster, was it a natural disaster or was it war. They say smart people learn from other people's mistakes, they're a little less smart, on their own, and those we won't name don't learn from anything. Now, we want, when we're not able to learn from other people's mistakes, that the Republic of Croatia learns from its own mistakes. 29.12. In 2020, Baniu, Sisak-Moslavina County hit a 6.2-degree earthquake on the Richter scale. The effects of that earthquake were human casualties, unfortunately dead, but also many injured. I believe that we can all once again, and we must send our condolences to the families of the victims and to all those who have suffered injuries in this disaster, to wish for the quickest recovery. In addition, however, the area, primarily Sisak-Moslavina County, Sisak, Petrinja, Gline and the surrounding area, has experienced huge material destruction. People lost their roof over their heads. But what's terrible about all this is when we see that the people who were refurbished 15, 20, 25 years ago, who, according to the standards that were in Europe and the Republic of Croatia at that time, were supposed to be built in a way that could resist the earthquake when these properties collapsed, collapsed, damaged. I believe I'm not the only one who's cut himself into remembering pictures of one of our colleagues who's coming to a real estate that's been refurbished and hand-handed by concrete parts of that property, and they're crumbling. The concrete that should withstand the earthquake is shrinking to a simple touch of the hand. Dear colleagues and colleagues, someone must answer for this, if not already criminally because our bodies, our institutions, many of whom we advocate to do their job, have failed to do their job, then at least to ensure that this responsibility is determined at the level of political and moral responsibility. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the aim of setting up this investigation committee is formally listed in the proposal itself and I will talk about it, but what that goal can be aware of are three things. First of all, to determine whether the post-war restoration was a failure, and then that those responsible for this failure, if it was not a statute of limitations or any other reason that would be an obstacle to criminal proceedings, would be responsible for you and sanctioned. That's the first, but not the most important reason. The other two reasons are far more important, one is to ensure that those people who live in renovated properties whether in Banja or elsewhere in the Republic of Croatia can be safe in their homes. And the third reason is to learn lessons from what happened in the late 1990s and early two thousand years, and not to repeat these mistakes in this restoration that is ahead of us that will be tens of billions of kuna. Like I said, smart people learn from other people's mistakes, a little less smart on their own, and those third ones learnt from nothing. Let's fit into a group of those who learned on some peas. When we talked about this, when we proposed establishing an investigative commission by ruling and the government of the Republic of Croatia told us it was unnecessary so that such properties did not have much that were damaged in the earthquake, and were restored during the renovation. Unfortunately, we don't even know the exact number today because the government of the Republic of Croatia hasn't used these five months to prepare one serious statement, if for nothing else, and then to deny us, to say you're wrong. None or only one or two of the objects that have passed the renovation have been destroyed. The government of the Republic of Croatia didn't do it. Why? I can't answer that question, but I can assume he's afraid of what such research would show. The second thing we talked about was the fact that a few months ago we could see with our own eyes, and our dear citizens from the area of Sibenik-Knin County and feel, which is that not only the City of Zagreb and Banija areas of the Republic of Croatia are seismically active. We all learned about a major Dubrovnik earthquake at school, I believe most of us remember that earthquake in Knin and many other earthquakes that hit the Republic of Croatia. The earthquake in the area of the Montenegrin coast and Dubrovnik I don't remember it I was just born the day the second severe blow of that earthquake was, but I know something about it, as many others know, especially those who have experienced it. Croatia is a seismically active country, shaking from Rijeka to Cavtat, shaking around Zagreb, and many of those areas that were seismically active were unfortunately affected by the war, where a reconstruction took place after the war. That's why I mention the area of Sibenik-Knin County because that example is exactly what the example of the area was after the war carried out rebuilding. We want this research committee to determine the number of such properties that are not carried out according to the rules of the profession and to take advantage of this moment when we are already going to rebuild to help these people who live in these properties to live safer and to ensure that if God does not give up this earthquake in their territory, they do not suffer their houses. In the earthquake, many will say, I listened to seismologists when they talked about it, especially after the Zagreb earthquake and earthquakes in Sisak-Moslavina County, that in this area, the question is whether the earthquake will happen but when the earthquake will happen. It is our obligation, then, not to say that the earthquake is a higher force and that we do not have to answer for a higher force, but to say that let's prevent and prevent the consequences because the earthquake will not prevent, but the collapse of houses, the collapse of buildings, we can. Do not act to make sin a failure here is completely irresponsible, completely socially unacceptable, as was the socially unacceptable behavior of those who during the restoration of the late 1990s and early 2000s deliberately and consciously placed a weaker armatur in real estate, used worse cement and thus threatened the lives and health of others. And that's the way it was, that's the way it was. Some of them even went out to the media and talked about how it was done. One of them was arrested a few days ago in this action that took place in Zagreb. It turns out some old habits are hard to die off. It is our obligation when we know that such things have happened to try to determine and prevent them from repeating and removing their consequences. And that's the only thing we proposers of this initiative want the things that have happened not to happen again, that where the consequences are removable the same and remove and ultimately that those for whom, as I said, there is no obstacle to the conduct of criminal proceedings are sanctioned. The point is clear. You have the opportunity to agree to set up this investigative committee, you have the opportunity to help us figure out what was going on or you will turn your head on the other side, but not from us who proposed this investigative commission, but from all those people whose real estates were affected by the earthquake and from all those people living in real estates that are insecure, and in an area where the earthquake can happen at any time. I call you, I appeal to you, I've already said no more than once, so I'm going to say today, deny me when I say you won't have the courage to start this investigative committee and try to answer questions about what happened and how to prevent it in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55796	Thank you too, stay because you have a series of replicas. The first replica was asked for by Mrs. Devereaux. Anka Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55797	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Grbin, you started your opening exhibition with a renewal that started in the City of Zagreb and in the area of Banovina and Banovina, so you kind of said the opening sentence. I'm afraid I have to defuse you. There is no renovation in the City of Zagreb, and unfortunately there is neither in the area of Banovina nor Banovina. And in the City of Zagreb, it's been a little while since the earthquake, so we're going to count for about a year and a half, and I'm afraid that in Banja and Banovina, we're going to be poor people in containers in these heats, or in the winter in the cold. So, the renovation of the system is gone, it hasn't started, and I'm sure it's one of this debate that should be, which today will be to point out where it is, which is and when it's going to start. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55798	Thank you, too. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55799	I thank my esteemed colleagues and accept the criticism you're right, the restoration has not begun. We all remained shocked a few days ago at that debate between the journalists and the minister where the journalist spoke about the removal of 3 objects, and the minister said no, no, you are wrong, we only removed two objects a year and 3 months after Zagreb hit the earthquake. In Banja, the situation is much more difficult because the property there was in worse condition, among other things, due to the poorly implemented post-war reconstruction, and also because the population in the area was weaker in property situations and could not invest adequately in maintaining their property. It just couldn't, it didn't want it, it couldn't, people didn't have the means to do it. Yes, we must send a strong message today that the reconstruction must be accelerated, but if the rulings do not listen to it we will discuss it both in the fall and in the winter and as long as it takes.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55800	Thank you very much. Mr. Miro Totgergeli replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55801	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade coat of arms, you've talked a lot, but a little bit about why you even suggested establishing a commission? You wrote this proposal three weeks after the earthquake. You have not given us arguments as to why we should have a commission, but you, in fact, do not want to admit to the Croatian public that when you wrote this proposal, you only wrote it for political reasons. We had local elections ahead of us, and you wanted to put something in front of the local elections, and you wrote a proposal like this that has no opinion of the profession, no real data, because it couldn't have been 3 weeks after the earthquake. At that point, you were less interested in thinking about what Croatian citizens were going through in the area, and you were more committed to how to score politically.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55802	Time, thank you. Here you go, Mr. coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55803	Dear fellow Totgergeli, your attitudes are like that joke, “Do you believe with your own eyes or with me. ” Well, I don't trust you, I trust you with my own eyes, I believe what I saw when I was in that area, I believe what others who were there saw, and above all I trust citizens and citizens of Sisak-Moslavina County who spoke about their experience with real estate that had passed the renovation, but did not survive the earthquake.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55804	Mr. Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55805	It's us.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55806	Oh, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55807	I'm not finished.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55808	Yes, yes, you can continue, you have time.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55809	We had standards in Croatia in the 1990s that we had to comply with. These standards in our area were based on the fact that it was seismically active and anyone who built these standards had to abide. So now we want to determine why it wasn't done, who let it, who wasn't controlling it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55810	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55811	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague Grbin, here and now you've said yourself that you've convinced yourself of certain things, so I'm going to ask you three very simple questions. First, how many houses were renovated in the postwar reconstruction in Banovina, how many houses were marked yellow and red after the Banovina earthquake and how many houses were torn down in an earthquake on December 28th and 29th 2020.?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55812	Here's an answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55813	I thank my dear colleague Ivanovic. These are the data that the government in each normal state would provide in its statement on the proposal, in each country. It's the work of the government of the Republic of Croatia. This wasn't politics. If we wanted to politicize, we would have collected the signatures and put this item on the agenda before the local elections, but we didn't want it just so this story wouldn't become politicizing, just so we could discuss it with the son of Ira et studio, that's clear. But for that, it needs a minimum of cooperation from the government of the Republic of Croatia that will provide us with the data it runs. Well, we don't even have any answers to counseling questions. We're looking for that information you're talking about, and we're not getting answers. The president of the assembly must regularly rush the government of the Republic of Croatia to do what It's her job, and she won't. [[Intruder: Time, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55814	Mr. Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55815	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A fellow coat of arms as you interpret the fact that no government official has appeared again today. So it's a violation of Article 12. Laws on government and Article 122(2) Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. So, is this simply a question of their contempt for democracy, of the assembly or of contempt for the people of Bania or Banovina who and whose well-being we should talk about here today? How do you interpret this negligence and actually one of these offensive behaviours of the Government of the Republic of Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55816	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55817	Well, I think you've given a big answer in your question. This is contempt, contempt for democracy, contempt for the Croatian Parliament, contempt for the inhabitants of the earthquake affected areas, but also contempt for all those living in the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia in real estates that have been the subject of reconstruction, which the earthquake can affect tomorrow and who can experience tomorrow the fate of those whose properties are 10th, 20th, maximum 25 years old, restored and should be safe. They were supposed to be safe. That's the key. They were supposed to be safe. Since Hamurabi's code, there have been rules for construction workers who are inadequately and poorly doing their job. Of course, I'm not advocating the penalties that were meant to be there that would have been insane, but over two and a half thousand years ago, three thousand years ago, it was recognized that a bad job had to be answered.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55818	Thank you. Mrs. Posavec The Guilty.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55819	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Grbin, it is good that we are discussing this here in the Croatian Parliament today because it shows that we are responsible for all those citizens who have passed the post-war reconstruction. To all those who are afraid of what will happen to their homes if the ground gets a little more stressed than is unfortunately stressful in the area of Banovina or here, I will specifically take the epicenter Strasnik as an example. In this area, there are many families who have suffered not one but more of the homes that were later renovated. They died in this earthquake, and they found themselves like all their colleagues and neighbors in containers. So these people don't deserve to rebuild their houses two or three times in their history. They once did so on the burden of Croatian citizens to help, and now it will be on European means. The organized reconstruction was worth it. 2 and a half billion kuna in Sisak-Moslavina County.../incomprehensible/... [[Intruder: Thank you very much, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55820	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55821	What you said to your esteemed colleagues is actually terrible. So taxpayers' money has already been used once to help people who have survived a disaster. That disaster was war. The other human being destroyed their property. And of course it was the state and we talked about it when we passed the Rehabilitation Act, primarily when we brought it to the City of Zagreb because the earthquake had not yet occurred in Banja. Then we talked about the fact that the Zagreb people deserve solidarity for the solidarity they provided by funding both the Zagrebers and the Rijekans and the Istrians, etc. Funding the postwar reconstruction. However, the tragedy is that what we once restored 20 years later is being restored again, and houses are not being built to stand for a year or two, they are being built for a little longer period of time.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55822	Thank you. Mr. Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55823	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Grbin, it has been five months since you prepared this motion for a decision, that you had political will, that you wanted in fact in these past five months you could have asked and you would have received information about a possible relationship between, a consequent link between the objects that were torn down after the December earthquakes in Banovina and those, and those that were restored after the Homeland War. You would have information based on which it would be determined that a small number of objects that were destroyed were restored after the Homeland War, and you would probably withdraw this proposal then. And instead, in the absence of any facts, you are now trying to justify this debate to say that the purpose of this commission could also be to contribute to the new legislation in order to make it happen as soon as possible. rebuild after the Zagreb earthquake and this earthquake in Banovina. [[Thank you very much.]] I believe you would have been after that exact data pulled This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. [[Intruder: Thank you, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55824	Dear colleague Bacic, are you in writing?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55825	Thank you. Answer, I have to give you my word. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55826	Dear colleague Bacic, are you in writing? I believe so, but I'm sure you're a written man. We wouldn't be on duty if you weren't. If you're a written man, then you've probably been to the apartment to read what it says in the interpellation. This is exactly what you were talking about. It's a subject of interpretation. This is exactly what you're talking about is what the government of the Republic of Croatia was supposed to deliver not only to our parliamentary representatives, to the citizens of this country. My colleague Bačić, I'm sure you're a written man, and I'm also 100% certain that a stupid man, and then the question arises when you don't want the truth to be revealed about what happened at the time of the postwar renewal and what the consequences today have for the life and health and safety of those who live in such properties at an earthquake affected or for the earthquake of risky areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55827	Thank you. Honorable MP Bačić has raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure, in what way has the Rules of Procedure been injured?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55828	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My fellow coat of arms, are you a written man? I'm asking you who wrote this article when you explained it. You're a written man, and I believe that if you haven't written that you've read it. If you had read it or written it, then you would realize that you are in great error. This isn't about any impelation from a colleague of the coat of arms. You tell me three times that I haven't read the interpretation, I haven't, because this isn't an impelation, this is a proposal for a decision to set up an investigative committee. It's such a difference that I'm really wondering right now if you've even read what you've been discussing here?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55829	Thank you, thank you very much. My colleague Bačić, this was not, of course, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. I've just taken over, so far I'm very kind and I'm asking you nicely, let's not abuse the breach of the Rules of Procedure because I'm going to start making warnings about it, and that doesn't make any sense. Let's talk about it the way it looks in this house. We're going to have a debate, I'm opening a debate, and the first one will be a respected representative of Nikola Grmoy on behalf of the Most Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55830	Here's a good day for everyone. Dear colleagues and colleagues, it has been more than half a year since the great earthquake in Banovina took place. Immediately after the earthquake, literally as soon as the dust settled, the public rightly began to ask questions about the quality of post-war reconstruction and how it was possible that houses and buildings that were restored after the Homeland War had no properties needed to at least withstand the earthquake of magnitude that could, according to historical data, have been predicted in the area of Banovina. All of us who visited the field right after the earthquake could see almost surreal scenes of houses without an armature, and the most dramatic example of bad construction caused total damage. After all, if you remember these scenes, you will also remember the owner of a house that shows the house where the whole top floor is as if it had been cut off with a knife in the yard. Such scenes give us all the right to question one part of the postwar reconstruction and its quality clearly without generalization. Unfortunately, the earthquake revealed some weaknesses in the worst way, and major or less systemic failures in the system that managed the restoration. I believe that it is in all of us's interest not to repeat such mistakes, especially now that we have yet to have another comprehensive process of restoration after two devastating earthquakes. It is also important in this debate to say that post-war reconstruction was a huge undertaking, especially for a country that came out of the war, whose many state systems have just begun to be established, and we must not ignore the fact that the Republic of Croatia has implemented and implemented this reconstruction without much more help from outside, its own forces and its own money. But those facts must not be an excuse for us to close our eyes and not question everything that was bad in that restoration. The investigation committee that we are proposing today can serve as a good tool for detecting systemic problems in post-war reconstruction, which were, as well as individual marifetteluks that could border on war profit. In this context, a public debate should also be remembered back 6 months when many lawyers spoke of the possibility of investigating the post-war renewal situation through other state bodies. Also at that time, the public was informed that the DORH had taken certain actions. However, we can see that this story has certainly fallen into another plan and that nothing special has happened afterwards. From all of this, it is clear that HS and this investigation committee are the only body that can conduct a comprehensive examination of the situation of post-war renewal. Therefore, we all need to support it in order to enable all bodies involved in the ongoing reconstruction to avoid traps and mistakes from what happened after the war. So this is very important because we are being followed by renovations both in the City of Zagreb and in Banovina. We also see what kind of problems we are witnessing, and we also see how slowly this process is going. I'm sorry that we were as a political option, and this time we were right not to, in fact, to warn that this Rehabilitation Act that they were pushing we could! and HDZ, unfortunately supported by the SDP, that will be bad, and now all the actors claim it, even we have messages from Mr Vanjelic and the ministry themselves that the Rehabilitation Act should be amended. So, not that this law, such as the colleagues who protested in front of the assembly and asked for the speedy adoption of the law, not that the law had solved our problems, slowed down the renewal of Zagreb, because under the existing laws it was possible to move more quickly to rebuild, and we were all actually waiting and fooling the public and citizens of the City of Zagreb that this law would solve their problems. Not that he didn't get rid of them, but he braked the reconstruction. So, I'm sorry that we were right this time, just as we were right when we voted here in HS on granting power to headquarters, when we were this against it. We will continue, as a political option, to warn all those shortcomings in this process of reconstruction, but we will also offer concrete solutions. I remind you that immediately after the earthquake in Banovina we have offered guidelines for the Banovina renewal strategy, but unfortunately as much as we offer our hand and try to be constructive, here they have no hearing for it, it is obviously preferable to listen to these from the platform We can!, but this has proved to be not good for the citizens of Zagreb, nor for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55831	The next Club of Representatives will be that of the Homeland Movement, and a respected representative of Ruzica Vukovac will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55832	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs that I spent a lot of time in Banovina after the earthquake sharing grief and misery with people who certainly did not deserve all the pain they are suffering today not only because of the earthquake, but also because of the great number of injustices that have been done to them from the war to the outbreak from their own homes, until they manipulated their fates through the restoration of their homes in a brutal and criminal way, I thought about how to present at least part of the scenario to those who did not need to go to Banovina. In everyday encounters with people who have lost their roof over their heads, without any certainty, and what is worst and without the hope of correcting an unfair relationship with them, I have gathered a number of evidence of irregularities and illegalities that occurred during the postwar restoration of their homes. I have concluded that it is best to read to you their statements and reflections on what they have experienced. I believe that many will then be clear why it is extremely important to get answers to such questions as whether houses are built according to all construction regulations, including adequate protection from earthquakes that are mandatory, who was in charge of overseeing the reconstruction process and whether there were failures in the process and what quality of the reconstruction of objects outside the area of the suffering earthquake and whether there are risks to the safety of life and property and other people in areas covered by postwar reconstruction. These people, as well as all the Croatian public, deserve answers, so let's get going. First, the KS from Strasnik says: “The earthquake that took place on 29. 12. In 2020, he showed great shortcomings in construction. Our house literally slipped off the foundation of an entire 25 cm. All her walls broke so she couldn't live in it. With a bearable wall, the base was simply split in length over 20 cm, which proves that the base was not held to the foundation. Since there were no reinforced pillars that would hold the walls as well as most of the houses that were renovated the pillars were designed to be seen from the documentation, but not installed." KL, Sibic. "I have not received any documentation. I couldn't even legalize the house for that, but I asked for confirmation from the Ministry. They were workers who were miners by profession, and this was their first job in construction. They came from Bosnia and they couldn't even get the roof together. The contractor brought the material and took it somewhere else the next day. If they objected to anything, we'd be attacked immediately. Glasour was made so that we used a broom to wash it and throw it out of the house, so we bought ourselves a niveling agent so we could put on a parquet. They set us up with a lock and then they took it off because it needed someone else." DS: "I declare that my house was restored after the Homeland War with countless shortcomings. I didn't want to sign the transfer log because I don't think the renovation's even finished. I don't have anything on my file because nothing's even left to me. The house has been renovated with many shortcomings that I have reported in the restoration but unsuccessfully. After the earthquake is visible which are the shortcomings, the house is completely for demolition." VŠ, Gora. "I declare that my house was restored after the war in a way that no one came to examine the condition of the lower part of the house. The house was declared 5th category, so the roof is on top of it. No one made any measurements on the part of the house that was being renovated. The builders built a roof, the house stood discovered for five years in the rain, snow and ice. I believe that it all affected the lower part of the house with which quality has become questionable, and this particular part of it has now collapsed most in the earthquake. It is completely crushed.’ "I responsibly claim that there have been a number of irregularities in the restoration of our house. The surveillance itself has blocked a series of important decisions in building from cutting materials, to loaning money by reducing the carpentry, the squares and everything else. It's impossible to state all the facts. The shortcomings are visible at every turn." NS: "The restoration of my house was in 98. I waited among the last because I didn't have any marks. However, I learned that the houses that were made among the first were the ones for which people were giving money. The main one in the renovation was Veljko Savik, who I eventually gave 100 marks to and only then came to work. They used to make blankets of roofs and interior walls. They didn't put out concrete binders on me, and now it's all broken up together. The first blanket was not strengthened, so the walls broke and separated from the upper blanket, so now in the earthquake I got a yellow mark because the house was falling around. I will add to this that the workers were people from Macedonia and when they were to receive the salary, police were called and all of them were forced back into Macedonia. I didn't want to sign the handover because I wasn't happy with the work." TS, Nova Drenčina: "I noticed with layman's insight that no vertical concrete-armed pillars on the corners of the house were designed and were not even performed. It is also seen in the documentation and review of the real state that even a copy of the sewerage water is not made at the site which is designed. Furthermore, the documentation indicates the construction of a septic pit that was not built at all but was carried out directly into the ground and buried. I'd add from the other construction gaps that roof horns are scattered unequally around the beams. During the release into the power plant of the water installation and the sewerage pipe was filled with mort and unusable, while the chimney was filled with bits of lime of the others after the dispersion was put on the chimney. T.B. Gora. The house in the war was damaged, the upper blanket was shot with a hole in half. In the restoration they didn't want to resuscitate the whole blanket, but they just put together and watered the blanket with an existing piece. It's not all over the place with one more layer to make it solid. The dental wall was upgraded then, now in the earthquake, he jumped 15 centimeters outside, only brick was placed on the edges, chimneys were knocked down, in the room on the floor left of the entrance to the wall corner below that blanket was a crack or crack. Based on two places, he broke into a section of the house toward the main road. T.S. from the Scarecrow. I can tell you that when our family home was restored after the war, there were a lot of gaps that Father warned the contractors about. I only remember a person named Veljko Savic, but I don't remember what role he was in. I know he was very uncomfortable, and he didn't want to hear at all what we advised him on good faith, and it turned out we were right. The house was 5 categories, we were upgraded to a roof that was now torn down in an earthquake. I am responsibly saying that the house was not well connected to the roof, the bearing shelves were not adequately connected to the concrete base, which resulted in its insurgence and destruction. The shears that were to tie the branch to horizontal sarcox were not deep enough embedded in concrete, so we could pull them out with our usual hand, which I also prove to the photo documentation provided. H.I. Gora. The house was moved in '79 and burned in '91. I am not satisfied with the restoration because it is bad and not renewed at all. I stopped the work for two months, and I didn't do anything. They were doing it their way, I asked to put the new blanket back on, they didn't want to. The cartridges in all the rooms were damaged, and they put the knauf plates on us to hide the damage, reduce the height, and now our mice are coming from the attic. The dental walls remained the same, so the whole wall now fell apart, and the blanket now burst in an earthquake. Also, the bearable wall in the hallway was cracked. This is in short lines, and it would give the whole study a writing. I'm a Croatian defender, volunteer, RVI, I spent the first line of 5.5 years, war, reconstruction, earthquake, all of us broke. I have time for one more, so I.G. From Graber, he says, they can confirm that when I was building a house in the rebuilding after the war, they built beams in the roof that were rotting and turned out. The whole roof has now collapsed, and I can't go upstairs after the earthquake because everything is life-threatening. I warned the masters still in construction, but no one listened to me. I have a lot of them here and, of course, photo evidence of how much you want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55833	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives will be that of the Centre and GLAS, according to Honorable Representative Anka Mrak-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55834	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Today, a proposal for a decision on the establishment of an investigative committee to identify possible irregularities in post-war reconstruction of houses, apartments and public purpose buildings in the area of the Republic of Croatia is under discussion. Why is such an investigative commission needed? Let me remind you, 158,000 wars of damaged houses and apartments were restored in Croatia, which is 14.8% of the RH Building Fund. After the war, Croatia restored housing almost entirely with its own resources with just about 4% of international aid and the value of total reconstruction was 17.6 billion kuna. In the Sisak-Moslavina County, 25,000 housing units were restored after the war, with 200 performers, 80 designers and supervision, and the value of this was 2.6 billion kuna. Is there a country that, when an earthquake occurs and sees that, if the houses that she was restoring with her means had been damaged, wouldn't she want to know why this damage occurred? I don't think such a country should be. Equally, we have received answers from resolution ministers, he says, there can be no problem getting to those who participated in the reconstruction and see clearly who did what, who put the signatures on what was paid. Sure, but he can't if you ask. 14 January 2021 As a representative in this high house, I have asked a representative question in which I have asked this question, and to this day I have not received any answers. It seems to me that every overstate, over-government that invests so much in a serious and large project and has doubts that something is wrong with this project, wants to know the truth. He wants to know the truth about it never happened again. For the simple reason we live in earthquakes. As Minister Beros once said, we live with the crown, just as we wish not to live, but we live in areas where earthquakes happen. The first earthquake regulation was followed by a major earthquake in Skopje in 1963. when around 1,000 people died in that earthquake and the first regulation that we had and which started to apply in the design was from 1963. After that, we were all regulatory, therefore laws and sublegal acts according to which to be designed, implemented, monitored, maintained and used spaces, all the while supplementing, we were somewhat stricter and now we have Eurocode 8 to apply and applied. At the time when there was a postwar reconstruction, some basic breeds had to be used. First, it had to be designed in accordance with the regulations. Similarly, the implementation had to be carried out by those who were at that time, in accordance with the applicable rules, registered in accordance with the applicable rules. The materials used had to be the same. In addition, after using permits, the house had to be maintained and used according to purpose. I've seen different pictures from the Bania/Banovina area. I saw really that there were concretes where someone leaned down like a colleague of the coat of arms at first said, so he could shake the concrete like this with his hand. I've seen some reconstructions and upgrades and upgrades that obviously came later and if one of us had leaned a little more seriously on it, it wouldn't have lasted. So it seems absolutely to me, not to me, I'm sure that the interest of all of us should be, let's finally see what happened here. For God's sake, it didn't happen again, let's find out what the problem was. So each of us can come and say that he thinks this or that. But there are witches, there are experts who can report on one particular sample and see what happened, an earthquake can happen at the moment I'm talking, it doesn't have to happen anywhere for the next 100 years. But earthquakes are kind of everyday, that's what can't be affected. The crown can be affected to reduce the number of infected, but earthquakes cannot be affected. Therefore, I absolutely think that the interest of all of us, regardless of what side of this assembly we are sitting on, should be to establish an investigative commission and try this investigative commission in the history of this country and complete its work. In that regard, I must remind you of the Rehabilitation Act. So what was done was done in accordance with the Law on Reconstruction. The Law on Reconstruction was passed in '96, and I have the last amendment in 2019 that I don't, that I'm not stating it now, and exactly what needs to be done is defined in the law. What about the bearable walls, which is with inter-story structures, which is with roofs, which is for closing houses with carpentry to rebuild the family houses, that, as a rule, I am now reading from the law, working on the basis or part of the foundation of the war on the house, that the basement of the destroyed or damaged family houses will be restored in its construction area and that is as necessary for the belonging part of the residential house. Houses are built on foundations. Do you know where they're coming from? From the roof. So houses are built from the ground up. It is extremely important for houses, regardless of whether they are family, it is an important structure. After that, all of this, you can somehow, if you have some cracks and you're going to take care of it or the rest. But when the structure isn't bad, there's no possibility of recovery. So, there's only one thing you can take down and build over again. So our interest, all of us here should be to know what happened here. But how do we know that? If the government didn't have a need to answer any of this on one of the text cards. She could have responded in one of the text cards as the esteemed representative Bačić said, it's about the clock, you haven't even read it, it's not worth anything. She could answer, but how will she answer when a simple parliamentary question that has been asked very clearly since 14 January when it is addressed, there is no answer. That just means ignoring. Don't ask anything, we won't answer you, but that's what comes to a fundamental problem. It has been 15 months since the earthquake in the City of Zagreb. There's no renovation. Since the earthquakes in the area of Banovina, or Banovina, it has been half a year, slightly more than half a year. You'd expect something to have started, but it didn't start. We can also detect why it didn't. First of all, the procedures are complicated by freaking out these people who can't get their files in the way they deliver the documentation. After that, I have to say for the benefit of the Central Office, which even in Banovina, respectively, has something to do with it, and in the City of Zagreb, the minister who is in charge of it is also the director of the Fund, and when they are above the floor. But we haven't gotten to the real problem yet. The real problem is next. The cost of building material went to heaven. They're twice as big today as they were a year ago, in 3 or 4 months, it's a question of how much they're going to be. You don't have a company on the market that's going to start working at all, but okay. Let's find that, too. The question is where is our labour force because we needed to rebuild the Zagreb area, i.e. Banovina, to be able to step forward, to take steps further. We obviously can't do that. In conclusion, I don't see any problem with such an investigative commission being set up, but I'd like to, if it is, that he really does his job right. According to what we've had a chance to hear, let's paint all this time because it's obviously not going to happen, but that should be the interest of all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55835	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives will be the HDZ, and the respected representative Branko Bačić will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55836	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will not support the proposal for a decision to set up an investigative commission to determine possible irregularities in post-war reconstruction of houses, apartments and public purpose buildings in the Republic of Croatia. Before I say why we will not accept this proposal for a decision, I would like to make it clear that post-war reconstruction is undoubtedly one of the biggest and most significant construction procedures in the territory of Croatia in all Croatian history and that one of the historical works that Croatia has done since the destruction of the 10th entire residential fund in the Republic of Croatia in the Homeland War. The reconstruction meant construction or reconstruction, reconstruction of more than 158,000 buildings representing the construction of 10 cities, 10 cities the size of Sibenik. The amount Croatia had to provide for the renovation was over 17 and a half billion kuna and, as a rule, almost 95% was financed by the funds of Croatian taxpayers, or from the state budget, at a time when Croatia cared for about a million and 200 thousand exiles and refugees, who were practically forced to leave their homes due to aggression and their care amounted to almost 600 million dollars a year. The restoration of family homes from 1st to 6th grade or from 1st to 6th was renewed on the basis of the Law on Reconstruction and the basis of two regulations which are important to mention, which is the Regulation on crediting the restoration of war-damaged and destroyed housing facilities and the Regulation on the organisation and financing of the reconstruction of war-damaged family facilities. Why do I mention these two regulations? It is precisely because these two regulations, as a technical implementing regulation, have established that family buildings should be brought into the original state so that they are very important in their original state and generally do not increase the quality of construction or earthquake safety, nor the energy restoration of the house, but I am going to do something a little later on. The reconstruction itself was carried out on the basis of a powerful solution to the right to reconstruction by the county offices. In this regard, it should be said that the restoration of family homes damaged from Grade 1 to Grade 3 was carried out in a way that was carried out by the owners themselves, for which the State provided them with funds, and the facilities from 4 to 6 were carried out by the State through the then competent Ministry of Reconstruction. Special instructions for the rehabilitation of family homes from 4th to 6th grade were drawn up for the resolution that had been controlled since then by authorised professional institutions in the Republic of Croatia. The reconstruction was carried out by performers based on a public tender and then concluded a reconstruction contract. Authorised supervisory engineers were also selected as the basis of a public tender, and additional supervision of the whole reconstruction process was carried out by the special department for internal control of the competent ministry. Clearly and not to run away from it, it should be pointed out, we are aware that there were shortcomings in the restoration. To assume that there were also corrupt acts. I suppose that some of the facilities were not rescheduled as they had assessed, but it is necessary to find out precisely defined objects and performers why, as far as I was aware, it was going through certain institutions of this country and the proper procedures were being carried out. But now to come to a scale, therefore the proposed decision on the establishment of an investigative commission was initiated by the alleged mass destruction of family houses in Banovina, which is precisely those of the houses that were built or renovated during the renovations from 1995 to 2010. On the side of the fact that the 6.2 earthquake that hit Banovina in December is one of the strongest earthquakes in Croatia so far unmarked in Banovina space. On the side of the fact that last March we also had a strong earthquake in Zagreb, although 12 times the intensity should be said, so of the 158,000 renovated houses in the Republic of Croatia in restoration after the Homeland War, 26 thousand facilities were restored to Banova. Of the 26 thousand facilities in the Banovina area in the organized reconstruction, so what the state had to do was refurbished 8 thousand and 880 buildings 4, 5 and 6 categories, so over 17 thousand citizens themselves in Banovina after the Homeland War renewed what the state later granted to them by means of. Out of nearly 9,000, 8000 and 880 buildings that the state restored due to an earthquake, 96 houses received a red and yellow sticker. So it's either unusable or temporarily unusable. Of these 96 houses, only 9 are scheduled for demolition. So, of the 26 thousand objects or of the 9,000 buildings that the Banovina state has restored, it's all 9%, 9 houses or 0.1% need to be destroyed and built a new facility. Imagine an earthquake that's six-two-two, someone's talking 6.4 degrees per Richter. When I first mentioned those two regulations that are very important, it would be good to listen in Croatia to the authorities that talk about earthquake engineering before we accuse anyone or use difficult words, and one of these Croatian authorities about earthquake engineering is a doctor of science and a member of the Academy of Technical Sciences of the Republic of Croatia, Dr. sc. Drazen Anicic, so he commented on the restoration of Banovina after the Homeland War, claiming that by 1995 in Croatia, the rules were in force, which defined the coefficient of seismic intensity, and this coefficient only changed after 2012, and he said that if it was a horizontal acceleration in Croatia, it had just caused this 6,4 earthquake, if this horizontal acceleration was 6 to 8 times higher than the seismic intensity coefficient, which is the basis for building a house, so if this horizontal acceleration is 6 to 8 times larger, then, as a rule, the houses have severe damages, severe damages, and much of them have collapsed. So said the man who is one of the greatest Croatian authorities when it comes to earthquake engineering. Which means that 0.1% of the houses that Croatia has built, in the Banovina area, of them 9 thousand, that only 0.1% die in a previously unrecorded earthquake, the best of all speaks about the quality and renewal. In that I mean, I can agree that there must have been a breach, that there have been failures, but that we here at HS are forming an investigative commission which, for the sake of respecting the sacrifice of every man to whom it is, this is Mrs. Vukovac read earlier, the house was not quality-renovated, and for this reason we throw away one of the biggest construction ventures of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian people in history, you will not let it in the club of MPs but we invite those who have signed, this 44 MPs to each, if they have knowledge, and there are no 9 houses that have been torn down, or for any other which they know has been torn down because of this earthquake, because it was unqualityly built, let the application, and we will at the counsel club sign that criminal application against those who did so. But because of the desire in the pre-election time of the opposition parties, we'll get the best possible position. Before the local elections, that we will participate, we in the club of representatives [[Intruder: Thank you.]] HDZ, we certainly won't. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55837	On behalf of the promoter, she will now speak to the esteemed representative Sandra Bencic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55838	Thank you. First, I'll look back on some of the things Mr. Bacic said as a representative of the HDZ Club. So, Mr. Bačić, this projection of the way HDZ works on other parties in this House, just talks about you. The fact that you in the pre-election period are making moves that have a short-term effect and long-term damage to Croatia, it is your modus operandi. Ours is someone else. The aim of this request to establish an investigative commission is, in fact, very simple and would expect a man-consensus around it. This is not to blame HDZ or any other government involved in the reconstruction. The goal is to rebuild it on one big project we've had since '95. By 2010, where there must have been irregularities, there are all kinds of irregularities, but where we see the consequences of these certain irregularities affecting the stability of these buildings in the earthquake we had last year in Banja, in a way that is serious, because when you say, Mr. Bačić, that 96 houses have a red sticker, but only a few of them have collapsed, so you say that this is another good and those 96 that have red ones are whole, so the red sticker is an unusable building or house. Unusable, you can't live in it. It is also not recommended for you in yellow, at your own risk, to live in it. So it's a red house, it's a ruined house. There may not have been a collapse, but there could have been a collapse. So, don't be, don't take those 96 as if they're houses we can do or people can live with. However, what we all have to ask ourselves is whether there is, is there a public interest because this is how the Law on Investigation Commissions regulates the question of establishing investigative committees, is there any public interest in conducting an investigation and detecting possible irregularities that we have had in the largest reconstruction project ever in Croatia, to define the lessons learned that we will integrate into reconstruction programmes for Banija and Zagreb? So is there that public interest? Learn something from the biggest reconstruction project we've ever had? Well, I think there's that public interest. The other thing, is there a public interest in detecting whether the device that existed on the one hand was that the state itself managed and organized the renovation itself, and you say to those houses that, in the most part, survived the earthquake in some form and this other form where people were financed by matter, so maybe more houses died. Why? Because it either came about that people had to save on material or that the performers were not adequate or that we might find that the supervision of it was not good enough and that we should have had strong supervision there. So we might also find that there is a responsibility for those who just built it, and unfortunately because of the lack of funds or poverty, they couldn't do it by those oatmeals and those rules that would actually ensure that these buildings are safe. And that's a learned lesson and that's important because then we'll say okay, this time we won't do it like we're going to provide and pay for the supervision that will really ensure that those houses that are made and with paid material are at the level that they can withstand the earthquake and that strength. So this opens up an investigative committee to see if there's any way we can come to such conclusions and put them in what we're doing right now. Because look, if it is, the outcome is that most houses have collapsed those who have been illegally upgraded, then maybe we should conclude that we should do something about illegal construction, right? It may be a message to our citizens that illegal construction is the most expensive construction in the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55839	Thank you. We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55840	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Bencic, I said that out of the 9,000 facilities that the state organized in the post-war reconstruction, 96 of them have a yellow and red sticker. And you know how much in Banovina, or let's say, in Sisak-Moslavina County, the building has yellow and red? Over 12,000 and you now want to talk about corrupt and criminal reconstruction at 96 facilities. I would agree with you that these are all facilities that are on Banovina after such a strong earthquake have been collapsed, but in the fact that the same Banovina is yellow and red label has almost 13,000 objects, slightly less. Then I don't see the kindness and well-meaning in this of yours, in this decision to set up an investigative commission because if it were then it would be a completely different decision and not focus on just one particular number of houses that just happened... State renewed. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55841	Thank you. Honorable representative's response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55842	Thank you. Mr. Bačić, if you have seen what the proposal says, and I believe that you have seen, it is not only directed to houses that were being renovated by the state organized but also to those in which it was in any way involved in the restoration because we want to detect what was therefore a failure where the state had organised, but we also want to determine whether there were any other moments of irregularities that we can now avoid, perhaps we can avoid them. Not every time an opposition asks for an investigative commission, sometimes when we're looking for an investigative commission, it's just about your government's actions, but the reconstruction that lasted from '95 to 2010. It's not a reconstruction that only your government ran, and don't take it as your personal HDZ project because it's not. And that's why I don't understand why there's so much resistance to something that's clearly a public interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55843	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed MP, Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55844	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. It is extremely important to stress all the time, so post-war reconstruction was one of those projects funded by the Republic of Croatia, funded by all, all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And if something was wrong, it's good to know. I was on purpose when I spoke for the club, but we never listen to each other, but everyone listens to the part that is, that it's always about keeping the building and the way the building is used. So these are all some elements that are important when assessing the damage caused by the earthquake. But let me, it's good to read and refer to the Law of Reconstruction that it was. Where the state did not renovate directly, it gave funds, in which case it exercised expert supervision and the work was always done with the record. What's behind that would be good to know.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55845	Thank you. Dear representative Bencic. Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55846	Thank you, Comrade Dark-Taritash. Yes, so for the purpose of research, 3 key goals are outlined, which include all of this that I have been talking about, and it clearly shows from them that this is exactly what the intention is to see and what happened to the surveillance, what is in the records on the supervision of those houses that have been restored by the material that was donated, or later refunded. Therefore, it also clearly states that the aim is to identify possible risks related to the security of the renewed assets, in particular as regards the anti-quake security and stability of the renovated houses, apartments and public buildings, in order to prevent future damage caused by potential natural or other disasters. Therefore, it is clear that it is a broader public objective, not a single act of a particular party in power.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55847	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives will be that of HSS and the Workers' Front, and the Honorable Representative Kreso Beljak will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55848	Thank you very much, dear Vice President HS, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I should say that I am really surprised by the decision of the HDZ Assembly Club that it will not support the establishment of this Research Commission. I expected not only to support this commission, but also to make sure that this whole problem not only stands on the commission, but to categorize all this together as a war crime in one hand, and then war profit after that. Namely, this whole story today, no one said it started in 1995 and ended in 2000. The whole story started a little earlier. We're talking about only one dimension, the homes of the victims in the war. But not all houses suffered in the same way in the war at the same time. We all know that in 1991, certain houses have been killed. But the largest number of houses were generally killed in 1995 or after the war, and no one mentions whether those people who brought down houses in Croatia and Croatia and Serbia were responsible for the state budget of our money, the money of all citizens had to pay for it afterwards. So it's one of the first dimensions of crime that's been going on around all these renovations. I'm a witness of time. There are others who have witnessed the time that knew that in 1995, before the Storm that there were two currents in Croatian politics in the HDZ were specific which was at the time. How does the problem of occupied areas of Croatia and the population living in occupied areas of Croatia after the war? The first current, unfortunately headed by the late Sarinic, Hrvoje Sarinic, advocated an agreement with Karadzic's war criminal because they had already been smuggling oil and various supplies, had agreements on non-attacking to reach the so-called. Human eviction. And all of you who remember 1995 will remember that right after the Storm that the rafts went through Sava from Bosnia and Herzegovina, from the Banja Luka area with the Croatian population that was evicted although there was no war and exiled de facto in Croatia. And the current advocated that these people of the Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina move to the houses of Croatian Serbs who were exiled after 1995 and after the Storm. The current had one plan, and the second current at the head was also the late Bayway Minister of Reconstruction and Development Jure Radic had another plan to let the civilian population returnees, until yesterday's returnees of Croatian nationality, be released into areas of the net free area after the Storm where there was a good month or two total anarchy where not only houses collapsed, but dozens and hundreds of houses de facto, the entire former occupied territory was burned down so that later all of us, i.e. taxpayers, would have to pay. That's not a word to anyone, and let's not pretend it's not true. I know how to tear down houses. They showed me and some of you. Maybe Knight Reiner is too young, so he doesn't remember, but I know the house can be torn down and in what ways it can be destroyed. It's not just a word of how to light a house on a candle. You know, you have that thing with the gas bottle where you put, hermetically close the windows, you crack one bullet in, of course, when the gas is released one bullet into the window in the house itself. So I have this deformity that for years after the war, I could have recognized that in the Zadar hinterland or somewhere else that the house had been torn down.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55849	Let's go now, you've called me a joke, and I'm asking you to stick to what's the subject. It's not a theme [[Beljak: Well, that's the topic.]] Your experience... [[Beljak: This is the theme of Knight Reiner.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55850	Will you give me back the time please that you're talking about?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55851	As you tear down buildings, that's not the point. It's about possible irregularities.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55852	I didn't crash, I said who was showing me how to crash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55853	... house [[You don't understand.]] I certainly didn't show it to you, and therefore let's stick to the subject. [[Intruder Beljak: They showed me your colleagues.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55854	Can anyone protect me? I mean, now he's defocused me, kicked me out of it. This wasn't knightly at all, Mr. Rainer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55855	You stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55856	I don't know. I mean, you interrupted me in half a sentence.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55857	Okay. I give you the reminder under Article 239, and you proceed.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55858	You're giving me a warning, are you taking my word? Are you going to kick me out because I dared talk about that someone who's been rebuilding them again is a criminal way of taking them down? Who was responsible for that? And now the Knight Reiner will take my word for it because I wonder who knocked down those houses in 91 and 1995?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55859	I didn't take your word for it. But now, by virtue of Article 240(1), I give you a reminder by taking away the words. [[Intruder Whitey: And what was sown in the restoration...]] And you read your Rules of Procedure and you'll know what that means. You can keep talking. [[Intruder Whitey: Good.]] If you'd read the Rules of Procedure, you'd know you could keep talking. But if you don't want your problem. The next Club of Representatives is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Ivana Posavec Krivec will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55860	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. On behalf of the SDP Club, I would like to strengthen the debate through several material indicators in terms of the need to establish an investigative commission to identify possible irregularities in post-war reconstruction of houses, apartments and buildings, public purposes in the Republic of Croatia. It is about a restoration that began a great number of years ago and ended in the past period, and which many here will consider to be a final story. Unfortunately, however, the earthquake that hit Sisak-Moslavina County, the City of Zagreb, Karlovac, Krapina-Zagorska and Zagreb County in the last year showed actually a real situation and reconstruction and pointed to possible irregularities that occurred during the renovation and took place. And why do we think it's important to talk about in the SDP Club? Because the restoration of these areas of post-war suffering as one of the biggest tragedies of the Croatian people took place by virtue of taxpayers' money. We believe that today in the Croatian Parliament it is necessary to draw attention to the need for responsible and transparent discussion of Croatian taxpayers' money regardless of the time. We need to show special responsibility to people who have received something from the state under quotes, and in fact today, they have nothing from that same country because work is not done by the rules of the profession or not done the way it should be. The reconstruction that took place in the territory of the entire Republic of Croatia took place largely in the Sisak-Moslavina County because Sisak-Moslavina County is one of the counties most affected in the Homeland War. That this also shows the fact that 25 thousand residential buildings have been renovated in the Sisak-Moslavina County area of about 160 thousand of them as renovated in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. We could say roughly about 1/8 renovations in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, which cost our taxpayers 2 and a half billion kuna. 2 and a half billion kuna was the majority of Croatian taxpayers' money, only 4% as already mentioned here in those moments came from international institutions or other sources of funding. We have before us a recovery after the earthquake that will be financed in completely different relationships. It will mainly be financed here by the European Union funds or funds from the grant funds, and by a small part from the budget of the Republic of Croatia. And we don't think that's why we shouldn't just ask for a responsible renewal. When we talk about responsibilities in restoring war-sufficient areas, then we should certainly say, as mentioned here by the HDZ Club, that the organized reconstruction was precisely for objects that suffered from the 4th to the 6th degree of damage. Such facilities, I'm talking about the Sisak-Moslavina County area, were in considerable numbers, and I'm about to deny what the president of the Bacic Club said on behalf of the HDZ Club, which is unfortunately not here right now. So, of the 2 and a half billion kuna spent on the reconstruction of Sisak-Moslavina County, 2 billion and 200 million kuna were spent right through the organized reconstruction of facilities from 4th to 6th degree damage. Just the biggest money was spent on the territory of Glina and the area of Petrinja. More than 7,000 such objects were renovated in the area of Petrinja, in the area of Glina over 3 and a half thousand objects. Of course, for the entire Sisak-Moslavina County, there are accurate data as many local self-government units have been restored. From what has been said here, it is clear that the people had no access to the restoration and participation they were promised at the very beginning, or they had no right to influence the restoration itself, had no right to point out irregularities, and therefore a series of these facilities were ultimately neither handed over to the property nor signed records of the handover that people were supposed to have had at the time. They refused to sign it because they had already seen irregularities in the restoration. These same irregularities have been reported and all this data exists. And the fact is that besides these people's testimony, there are also testimonies, unfortunately, of these objects on the ground that did not endure this earthquake. This means that no quality materials have been used during the renovation period, nor have those same materials been used enough. This means that all those who did not sign the transfer logs today have largely illegal objects because they could not legalize them. We are now returning to the beginning of the story of the current post-traumatic reconstruction in the area of Sisak-Moslavina County. The main objects that are not legalized or all objects that are not legalized cannot be restored under the Law on Reconstruction that we have adopted in this Croatian Parliament. So except that the citizens of Sisak-Moslavina County were killed in the Homeland War, except that they had lost everything they had, except that they were renewing the money of Croatian taxpayers once again and thanks to the devastating earthquake, they will not be able to restore those same facilities now because they are illegal and have no conditions for restoration. So we here are constantly talking about injustice against Croatian citizens in Sisak-Moslavina County, otherwise one of the most popular counties in the Republic of Croatia, one of the most popular and poorest counties. That is why we at the SDP Club believe that no one in Croatia should be afraid of this investigative commission that could determine possible irregularities, possible irregularities because if there is an irregularity let's all get rid of it together and let's return at least a little justice but once again and a lot of solidarity to those citizens who deserve it. It's the only thing they expect from us. That's all they're hoping for here. They are still ready with their modest means to restore their homes, as soon as they return under their roof. But we think it's time for these answers and for the state to be organised and responsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55861	Next, we're actually done with the clubs now, so we'll move on to an individual debate and the next one will be spoken by a respected representative of Domagoj Hajduković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55862	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I'm actually going to start from the end somehow, and that's from the announcement that the HDZ Club won't support the establishment of an investigative commission. As my colleague Posavec Krivec said before me, I think it would be good to establish a commission and determine possible failures if there were. Denying or at all rejecting the possibility of setting up a commission of investigation sends one false message, because if I were bad, I would think that one who perse refuses and Priory has something to hide, and he does. But I'm not bad, so I won't say it, but that's the message being sent. Today we are in Zagreb and the President of the European Commission and there is a lot of talk about it in the media, it is also said in the towers. We've been granted the National Recovery and Resistance Plan and everyone is euphoric and enthusiastic about it. However, colleagues and colleagues if it is to judge it day after morning, then I don't think we have anything good to write. The money's here. We have a plan that is mostly concreteizing Croatia, but well now it is a debate for something else and another debate. However, if we are to judge after the restoration of Zagreb as it flows, I don't think we will use that money. My colleagues and colleagues, for a year and a half even more, may have passed since the earthquake in Zagreb, and we have managed to bring down only two houses damaged by the earthquake. We have not been able to launch the tender effectively, nor have we been able to spend the money we received practically the second day after the earthquake from the European Union Solidarity Fund at all. But that's another topic, too, so I'm afraid that the reconstruction of Bania will take a long time, be ineffective, slow, and then the results we'll get if we judge according to and the damages they've been teaching, and that's why they're also not going to satisfy our citizens, and they won't meet the essence of the intention they were meant to do. When we talk about the restoration, we can talk about the restoration of so-called war on the affected areas. I'll go and talk about what I know best, and that's Slavonia. You have several pilots of reconstruction projects that have been done really well. Here's one of them that comes to mind is Ceric, a place in the municipality of Nuštar near Vinkovci. So it was a pilot project to rebuild where the houses that were killed in the war were restored not according to the number of household members as it was later, so you were entitled by the number of household members to certain squares, etc. Type houses were built and the like. But it was restored in the condition it was before the war was lost. That part was good. However, when it started later on from the type house and later renovations, and I can tell you about this vinca area, there was everything. Literally, what Posavec Krivec was saying about handing over records, illegal, uninfected buildings, etc. I think it's crazy that the state is building, and then the state itself doesn't put it in books, doesn't run through cadastre, doesn't run through a garland, etc. So the state itself contributes to the chaos we already have in land books. In that renovation, it literally depended on what company would be working on your renovation, because what I heard from people talking to them some companies were out of line to do bad, to save, to place where 3 bags of cement put a bag, etc., etc. So there were a lot of failures in the reconstruction that some of the facilities were not adequate, that people still live in them for years now, but they had to invest them further and invest a lot, rescheduling them, etc., etc. I think it would be good, God forbid there's an earthquake in Slavonia, so we'll see again how bad that restoration really was for someone to get hurt, but to get killed first of all by property. It would be good to determine irregularities if they were, to learn from mistakes because they say only a fool learns from mistakes. So it's not a problem to make, but it's repeated and then remove them during the reconstruction of Banija, the reconstruction of Zagreb, etc. Because only if we learn from mistakes can we actually say that we have made progress. If we're going to make the same mistakes, then hell, then why are we even trying? But I'm saying, I can't help but think that it's in someone's best interest not to talk about it like this and that we haven't finally met the goal of restoring the lost area.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55863	Thank you. We have two replicas. He's the first respected representative of the Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55864	Thank you. I'm going to use my friend Hajdukovic's right to the replica to actually draw a little attention to what happened earlier. I think that my colleague Beljak is actually too harshly interrupted to speak on behalf of the club because if I understood his intensity was not to speak outside the subject, but to extend the topic by intervention into a decision to add to the Commission's decision the circumstances under which the houses were torn down that they should be renewed. So, it was an emergency, and I think the president, after seeing the video, broke up his fellow white man too hard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55865	It's just... I'll stick to the topic that you've imposed, we've actually had this situation, and before, if you remember, you've been at the thick end of what is said and you've lost the right to speak if you remember. [[You don't understand.]] I mean, I don't remember the subject anymore, but we had this weird situation. We hope that doesn't happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55866	Perhaps a single correction, my colleague Beljak did not lose his right to speak, and he did not know the Rules of Procedure, so he left and stopped speaking is his problem, because I specifically said that this was an article 240. Therefore, he did not lose the right to speak. The esteemed representative of Anka Dark Taritash has a replica. Here you go. We've got a replica first, and then we'll give it to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55867	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Hajdukovic, I would point to two facts. First fact, we can't talk about the restoration because there's no renewal. So there is no renovation of the City of Zagreb, since the reconstruction of the City of Zagreb there is not a bit o, let alone much o, and from the area of Banija/Banovina, there are some more buildings or houses indeed collapsed than it did in Zagreb, I think,.../incomprehensible/... but there is no story there either. Let's just say that if we started rebuilding, maybe if we started rebuilding Bania/Banovina, we'd get some answers to these questions that we did. As part of that recovery behind the earthquake, it could really be determined what was wrongly done, why, if the materials were built in, they were not, who had the serkla, there was no serkla, what had to be done. But it didn't start. Maybe they'd really say, my people, so we don't need this investigation committee because in reality we really see what happened, how it was done and how it was. But there's no restoration. Not a bit, let alone the big ones.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55868	Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55869	Thank you very much, colleague. Yeah, no renovations, no crashes yet. But to bring down objects that have to collapse. I agree with you, precisely because the renovation is gone and that she hasn't yet begun, we should learn from past mistakes. But someone must also be responsible for these failures and mistakes that have been made. So, it couldn't be done, you had, you had these professions, you know better than I, you have construction control, so you have a person who has to monitor the entire course of the shop, whether all the materials are spent, whether it's done properly in accordance with the standards, so you have a residual download of the transfer records, etc., etc., etc., etc. I think, unfortunately, we're missing out on learning from mistakes, we're going to repeat them, and I'm telling you again, I can't take the impression that someone's responding to this chaos, that someone's responding to this kind of noise, and that's why they keep their eyes closed to possible failures. So again, I'm stressing possible failures, maybe individual failures, but it's obvious there was a leak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55870	Thank you very much. The Honorable representative Peovic has raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure, what has the Rules of Procedure been injured in?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55871	The Rules of Procedure of Art have been injured. 231, so the president is concerned that the speaker is not distracted or prevented from speaking. After your explanation for why you interrupted your colleague Beljak in speech, it becomes quite clear that not only did you not stick to this article of the Rules of Procedure that you should provide a smooth speech to the representative himself, but it was you who distracted him in that speech. I therefore announce that we will also ask for an assessment of this move and a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55872	Absolutely, go ahead, but read the other articles of the Rules of Procedure, and you will see what role the chairman plays and how much the one who speaks must stick to the subject. Now we're going to have the next individual debate of Honorary Representative Anka Mrak-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55873	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS, dear colleagues and colleagues. I hope that there is someone sitting here among you who can help me get a final answer to a representative's question that I sent on January 14, 2021, so please, maybe someone who listens will somehow work to get an answer to that question, it would be easier for me for this debate, but what is there. I must admit, some colleagues are emotionally experiencing this investigative commission from the point of view, now it's attacking someone by political, and I have to admit that I'm equally emotionally experiencing everything when it comes to building. So we have a long tradition of construction. We build high-quality. Our builders are really respected in, getting good jobs, people who have ended up with us, who are carpenters, armymen, not to say specific jobs, really after them, they can get as much work as they want and every time they open up the topic that someone doesn't do something right, I have to admit that I'm having the same emotional experience. I'm experiencing it the following way, imagine someone who does cars doesn't install a brake. So he says, well, I was supposed to fix a car there, so I took a brake at home, so what you're going to break up doesn't matter. There's no difference in principle, you have to take care of the rules of the profession, install quality materials, answer for your work, and in this whole procedure, it all ends up with a supervisory engineer who, when it comes to public money, always ends up with a supervisory engineer's report, regardless of whether you physically contracted and had a firm with which you contracted, so you built and the state or you gave in construction material or you gave money, and in the renewal and the Law of Reconstruction, it ended with a supervisory engineer who had to sign that everything that was listed there was actually done. That perhaps the story of legalisation related to everything that was and what the state was renewing, the basis of the Law on Reconstruction and other regulations, everything that was renewed, and people could deliver a loan contract, a renewal contract, an act, an appropriate act, the transfer record had legal status and had no basis for the Law on the retention of spatial or legalisation of illegally built buildings at all. That was considered legal. If you didn't have it, if you can't prove it, then just as many different interpretations we've given and spoken, everything that's been restored in accordance with the Law on Reconstruction, whether the state physically renewed through its contractual contractor or was giving funds, if you can, if you have proof, some proof, something, not proof that the neighbor, was considered legal. Well, if you've done something by yourself, you've done it a little differently. If you've upgraded something, then you've upgraded it, of course there's a problem. What I'm really going to say is, I think it should be everyone's interest that we know the real situation, that really in the end line let the state boast and say what we did and rebuild in the earthquake didn't get hurt and that would be one of the conclusions. So, I can't understand and I don't understand that resisting because it's not pointing to any party, it's not pointing to any government it's just a wish that we know that taxpayers' money, citizens and citizens of the Republic so I repeat it is only 4% of donations to everything else, regardless of whether we gave money or we had a contractor we worked alone. And lastly, I want to say, in the construction process, it's important for you to have an important project, and it's important to build quality materials, surveillance, but then something else that's important to maintain that building and something else that's important to use according to the purpose for which the building was built. And it could be seen, among other things, as part of this. and not to say that the renewal was started then probably the investigative commission shouldn't be because.../Speakers speak at the same time./... [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55874	Thank you. Dear Representative Hajdukovic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55875	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your colleagues used a good plastic example, we don't build a car, we don't install a brake, someone gets hurt or gets property at best just a car, not the ones driving in it. And now we have a situation, we have a chance, we have a chance, before we start building a new car, let's see how it could have happened, and why it happened, and what holes in the procedure, the law, the very dynamics of the construction that missed it, were that this brake hadn't been installed, how to avoid it, how to prevent it, how to better control it. No, we're not gonna do that, so we're gonna rebuild the car and maybe we're not gonna put the brake back on again, and maybe somebody's gonna get hurt again, at best just property, not people. Why? Well, I think it's out of my mind.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55876	Honorable representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55877	Thank you very much, colleague Hajdukovic. Well, that's right, so I think this commission is the interest of everyone because through it you can, the interest is in the extreme of those who performed, those who designed, those who supervised to say my people aren't all the same, we were doing well, we were doing quality work. Because 1% or half percent or 2% of people have experienced the possibility that we don't want to be in the same society with them, we want to be different from that. So, somehow from the beginning of today's debate that I already had on behalf of the club, I said I didn't even understand that resisting, that not wanting, that one ignoring attitude of this government that didn't even answer all of this. So the government could answer half the text card, we're setting up an investigative commission to find out what it is, and we'll be able to see some technical things as part of the renovation that really happened. But ignoring is very, very dangerous.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55878	Thank you very much. We have the next debate between the respected representative Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55879	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here is something I would like to say about this proposal for a decision to set up an investigative committee to determine possible irregularities in postwar reconstruction of houses. If we were to go back a little bit five, six months at that time when such a proposal for a decision was certainly a very different time than today. So we had people out there, there was an earthquake everyone then wanted to give their help to just those who were the most affected and individuals, and citizens, and states with... their institutions etc. Obviously, the opposition when certain media speculation began about what was or was not done was immediately decided to help through one commission and probably wanted to create certain areas for themselves. Now a few months after that when we watch the local elections are over, those who may be targeted that man is no longer mayor, the new mayor came, we have the same mayor here, so there's little me and that term. The way we discuss this a little bit of a surprise, here's none of the SDPs I've heard tell that mayor of yours, so give Mrs. UskoK's papers if he's already looking for you, so if he says so, you don't have to punish the court to give the documents. I don't remember any local self-government leader wanting to give USKOK documents, and now we should invite people on the committee to bring in some of their '99 documents. Or in 2001 and tell us all these documents we're going to question you from the SDP. Let's first settle these things in the SDP no, to give us at least some friendly criticism if nothing else because it's not the normal behavior of a local leader regardless of what he's chosen above all for a little over a month. So that's standard behavior, if the UskoC investigates you, give him the papers, so what's in it, or some other stuff they're looking for, give it to him. So one thing that goes into conflict with the other, you make a decision and you ask everyone to come before a committee and everyone has to answer to the SDP, and the SDP won't do anything. And that lady was already known before she wouldn't take any charges as much as I remember, etc. So we have people who don't respect the institution, and we ask that these institutions act. Now, let the SDP comb it a little bit 'cause it's not even the best rating lately. Now there are various goals and questions to be answered here, some of them are already responsible. I think a lot has already come out in the last few months, let's say what number of houses, apartments and buildings public purpose has been built up, restored through the government's program. Here we heard 8.880, 96 got a yellow and red sticker, 9 got knocked down. More or less of that information on the commission may not even have to be examined. What we wanted both as a state and as a government and as an institution all happened after the earthquake in turn as it could have happened. We have a housing office that clearly provided all the information that was supposed to be out there and you today on the web have absolutely all the information about those companies that worked, that had contracts and the way they got these contracts, etc., everything says out there. We have to have a commission to find out what's already out there. So we have answers to the question, what I know is there are all kinds of questions here, let's say I'm very interested in what we're going to explore, the quality and legality of the rules that regulated the renewal and the particular relationship between the Law on Reconstruction that regulates the renewal under other regulations. Here I would like to know that this commission would examine the legality of these regulations, which my colleague Bauk would ask himself at this point, if, as assistant minister of defense in 2000-2003, he contributed something to make these legal regulations better than they were, so the houses collapsed. I don't think he'd know the answer here, or what people we'd call, that's interesting, let's say we check that legality of the regulations or how to award contracts to performers and subcontractors of any conflict of interest, guessing, etc. So the issues are very broad and we leave to individuals who do not want to respect the institutions they swear to and are calling for them to apply to someone else or possible involvement and responsibility of the officials at the time about possible illegality in the organisation and implementation and supervision of the renovation. Indeed, many questions arise that this commission, based on a decision like this, which is really very quickly written right away, ten, fifteen, twenty days after the event, mean when you're still eager, hot when you want to make an impression that you want to contribute to clearing up some of the things that happened in that earthquake and getting what we have today. Apparently, some of them wanted to deal with some things back then, but when we get to theirs and their time, and there was a SDP from 2000-2003, you'd probably want to skip it because the question of what would come out then.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55880	Thank you. We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55881	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I agree absolutely that the time in which this motion for a decision was written was marked by a different political charge because the fact that we are discussing one of the committees of inquiry in this way, in which there is not a third, a quarter of the opposition, there is not a third of those who have signed here in the assembly who have signed this decision on the investigation committee, is saying that it was actually pre-election and I am convinced that today's debate by the promoter is enough to say how convinced they are of the correctness and need to establish such an investigative committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55882	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55883	I agree with my colleague, Bacic, and we'll see it in the vote next Thursday. There will be 40 of them, 50 of them always come around, and they basically use it as their contribution, let's say the debates in HS and always write this kind of proposal for a decision that is very difficult to discuss. We've had a few of them already when we talk about these committees and it's going so wide that you really don't know what you would actually do with such a motion for a decision. So we can't concentrate on one thing and try to explore the very thing and the event that is what it is, but it's always going so wide that it's absolutely impossible to determine anything. That's why they have certain problems because if you say it yourself and insist on respecting institutions and invite everyone to do it, and your members don't do it, then the question of what kind of policy you stand for is what kind of policy you stand for. We also heard a colleague of the coat of arms talking all the time about impellation and telling everyone what you shouldn't say, especially to us in HDZ that we don't understand anything. We understand very well what it says here, what this is and how this was going to happen then five, six months ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55884	Thank you. The next is the replica of the esteemed representative of Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55885	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow Boric. So here is a clue to how much politics was, in essence, politics, and not the right intention to testify, and the number of representatives attending this debate that it was just politics shows both the facts and evidence, above all, the profession of the Croatian Centre for Earthquake Engineering data that went out through all the buildings, houses in Sisak-Moslavina County, about the number of stickers, about the restoration by the Republic, and when these facts, that is, when they became public, they simply exposed the whole plan of opposition to try not on facts but on lying to create unrest among citizens and therefore they are not here with us now.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55886	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55887	Thank you very much. Comrade Mažar, you were also the head of this office for renovation and housing, it is clear that at that very moment we acted responsibly as the institutions and as individuals officials must act. However, they have their rights and they did it, but today to discuss it in such a way that we don't understand anything and that we don't really know anything, we don't feel right. If we give you the information and tell you what's going on there and that there's been a debate over those 96 houses that were the most damaged and nine of them destroyed and that we need to find some culprits for that now, okay, if it has to be done that way. But there are institutions, and that's why we called them, you have all the data on who was doing what, where he worked, report to criminal records, we're also willing to sign it. But to create a committee in the House, I think that as a club we are very clear and I as an individual or as a member will not support this investigative commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55888	Thank you. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55889	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Mostly on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, I presented the reasons why we should not and will not support such a decision to set up an investigative committee. And now I would like to say a few more words and even compare the importance of postwar reconstruction in Croatia 25 years ago when the restoration began with a great tragedy that the world witnessed, which struck Japan 15 years ago, was a major earthquake and tsunami that hit Japan. At that time, the world was talking about the need to help Japan, a strong state, a strong economy, although compared to Japan's GDP, it was twenty of the damage done through the Homeland War, although 14 times more areas for a small, relatively small country than Croatia had been destroyed, burned, destroyed, even though today, part of Croatia that was affected by this aggression was not available, given that it was not demining, and the sea in Japan after the earthquake and tsunami was withdrawn within 7 days and for one economy, for one nation, where and where the greater, the greater challenge was to build, rebuild Croatia than it was for that large, for such a large and powerful economy. And in doing so, as a state, we put ourselves on the line. 95% of the costs of reconstruction were borne by Croatian taxpayers. Why am I saying that? I am saying this because I am convinced that by defending this position that we were doing, not only the HDZ Government but also the governments, the coalition government, for example, Ivica Racan, who significantly participated in this restoration 4 years from 2000 to 2003, I am not defending therefore to defend the position of my party but to defend the institutions, I am defending a top project and I am not agreeing that because of any individual cases that were certainly in this one business that meant the restoration of more than 158,000 objects, I suppose there were and there were certainly there were guilty, bad, intentional and even criminal acts. But then to raise it to the level of the Croatian Parliament as it is necessary to question a whole grandiose, I can tell you one of the biggest, most demanding, most complex projects in post-war Croatia in construction, if we exclude the construction of highways, I think it is unnecessary, politically harmful not for my party to which I belong but for Croatia as a country and institutions that have been building Croatia all along. I agree, if, I said this earlier, that it is possible if someone wants it, it is also possible 11 years after it is finished, it is mostly finished although the State Office for Reconstruction and Housing still today has an obligation in part of the renovation it can be determined, but that one individual case in my opinion cannot, cannot, should not be dumped on the entire project of Croatia's restoration after the Homeland War. And that's why we're not gonna support him at the counsel club, but we're giving full support to all the MPs, everyone who wants and has the knowledge that he's deliberately in some procedure, and if someone wrote this, I guess this decision knows. I don't believe that you wrote this without any knowledge, if you wrote this without any knowledge, then that makes it even more embarrassing to whoever wrote it. And if there is knowledge concrete and then here are some who get well out, let it be written, explain, anyway, that often times I think that a number of criminal charges go from this left, which is the clear right of every representative, every citizen, but let those individual 10, 20, 2, 3, 5 not matter how much, let an individual criminal application be written against those who have been involved in such unfair, illegal, criminal acts, but it cannot in any way in some way be covered by some big pawnage for, to shed light on the renovations that the Croatian state has been doing, I practically said to get rid of the whole project. That's why at the club we won't, I personally like that, so you wouldn't support one of these investigative committees, but yes, here comes my time, but I am in favour of any an individual case is more investigated. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55890	Thank you very much, we have more replicas. He's the first respected representative of the Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55891	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Bačić, here is when the facts, data and evidence denied this attempt of politics part of the opposition transferred to the current reconstruction and again presented the truth that nothing was happening on Banovina. Personally, my wish is that every family doesn't spend another day in a container. I also lived as a child with my family in such and similar facilities in a exiled settlement and waited for my return to Vukovar. However, on today, 6 months after the earthquake, 165 buildings were removed, works on the reconstruction are 224 houses, 166 houses were renovated, documentation was made and elaborated for 500 objects, project documentation for 1364 buildings, and works were arranged for the restoration of 720 houses. A public tender was held for the construction of 1,500 houses and a new tender for reconstruction of 1,500 other houses.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55892	Thank you. Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55893	I thank my colleague Mažar, so you are right, but I am detached from the decision to set up an investigation committee for post-war reconstruction after two earthquakes of Zagreb and the one that was on Banovina or a series of earthquakes anyway. So these two things light and here we are talking today about the need to set up an investigation committee for post-war renewal. I do not read from this document anywhere, through any goal, through any question to which an investigative committee should answer that it is in a more quality function of this renovation of Zagreb, Zagreb County, Krapina-Zagorska, Sisak-Moslavina and Karlova County, but I am not running to discuss this renewal after the law we have passed and its amendments here in the Croatian Parliament. So on this data that you told your colleague Mažar, we would find a very, very large number of data that speak about how many countries Croatia, this government and headquarters have made in the past six months in the recovery of that space.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55894	Honorable representative Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55895	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague Bačić...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55896	My colleagues, you can take the mask off, because it's easier...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55897	I can, I'm sorry, I'm so attached to epidemiological measures. So I don't know what you're really defending institutions from. We institutions do not attack, we do exactly the opposite, respecting the institutions and thus the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia through institutions institutionally we want to clear up all possible irregularities and any illegal actions, regardless of the number. Why does it bother you so much? Why do you think we're attacking, so you have to defend the institutions of this country? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55898	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55899	I thank my colleagues, Rukar Gamulin. I think it's the opposite situation. First I defend the work that was great for me, significant, historical work done by the Croatian state or Croatian citizens, but you attack institutions, you deny institutions, you would do the work for which Croatia has established institutions for you, and these are judicial institutions if you want the state's attorney's office, you don't trust them with these institutions, but you and you would take over their business on behalf of those same institutions, you would carry out this job that we are, it's nothing the other way around, and that's exactly what I want to tell you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55900	Please don't, let's not dialogue between benches and speakers.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55901	I'm advocating, I'm advocating that if there is, I've already said it three times, if there's any doubt, and I believe that you here, that you have some information, so if you have them, process them, do it. There and that's how you handle it. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55902	The replica of the respected representative, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55903	Comrade Bačić, we will not agree with the opposition today because they have seen it from their side and always want to avoid something they know and have data, but they do not want an investigative commission. Let's say Gunja, septic pit 65,000 kunas cost either a brush of toilets or this or that. We know that it's from our time and we're not going to investigate it was just a few years ago. But this 20 years ago, we could find something for me and it's your fault. And now we defend, you don't defend, etc. So what they know doesn't interest them because there are some of their members, etc. and there might be some problems and they don't want to explore it. And it would be okay to say that, here's what we want to explore, so we're going to look at that problem a little bit. But they don't always want something that suits them. And that's okay. We're here to say what it is, and that's what you said was the biggest venture of the Republic of Croatia since the war, and that's a reconstruction of the 156 thousand objects.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55904	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55905	Yes, it is interesting for fellow Boric not to question the restoration of Gunja and Posavina after this great flood, there were very many tails behind it. How many of them are epilogues I don't know, I know there's research and everything, and in the end it's not done. I don't see any desire here to flood the request for the investigative committees we witnessed in the last term, and here we are with them. It is very interesting that the opposition is not interested in the part where they performed the restoration on Gunja and in that section that was flooded in Slavonia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55906	Dear representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55907	My colleague Bačić here is teaching what your colleague from the platform We can, Urša Raukar Gamulin, another little test of logical thinking and your awareness of the role of institutions. You say you're protecting the crime by thinking about the overall renewal, at the same time saying that you are aware that there have been guilty, deliberate, and criminal proceedings in terms of criminal liability within that reconstruction, but you insist on denying the opposition's initiative to expose these crimes and criminal activities and to consider any attempt to detect these irregularities a blow to the institutions. My question is according to what the institutions are doing in the first place, rather than just removing these minor irregularities, even if it was a single house. It's a country, it's a responsibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55908	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55909	Thank you, Mrs. Oreshkovic. And you're as wrong as Mrs. Raukar Gamulin is wrong. Which one of us defends the institutions? Mrs. Raukar Gamulin says I defend institutions because I expect them to work. What you're proposing would actually take over the work of another institution. I ask that this institution that Croatia founded, which is the state's attorney's office, it's USKOK, it's Croatian courts are processing this, it's their business. And if you've done this article, you've written it, you've got to specify it and give it to those institutions that I'm supposed to be guarding, I'm defending them, and you're attacking them to solve it. If they don't, then if you give something and they don't, they don't go through with it, then we can talk about it. But until we've sent it, until we've concreteized it, and I don't have that kind of knowledge, I can. Supposedly, but I don't have them I'm saying I'm not going to let that act attack me like this. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55910	Dear Representative Totgergeli, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55911	Thank you, Vice President. My friend Bačić, I kind of have the impression that the promoter would rather run away from this proposal. After all, even physically escaped because I came from my colleague, told a little about the proposal for 10 minutes and disappeared. Three weeks after the earthquake, they weren't even familiar with the real data, and those three weeks after the earthquake couldn't even write any more than they wrote, and the wish was actually how to collect political points. In some hajka that was happening at the time, where the restoration was to be spat upon after the Homeland War, which was grand, was moving fiercely and was trying to push it all towards HDZ. Even neglecting that fact that you have stated that a large, large contribution has been made by the government from 2000 to 2004, only to make some changes in local elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55912	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55913	I thank my colleague Totgergeli. The very view of the assembly speaks for itself. Of the 44 MPs who signed this, here are the books dropped to four, four, four MPs and a colleague of Hajdukovic, and therefore it is enough to indicate how much they themselves are convinced that it is necessary to establish an investigative commission in the Croatian Parliament, and that the absurdity is an even bigger colleague of the Grbin, who has been speaking on behalf of the promoter all the time, talked about the interpretation instead of the decision to set up an investigative commission. Therefore, I think that this approach is sufficient to indicate that even the proposings of this act themselves do not really believe that it is necessary, that it is necessary and that it should be brought. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55914	Now, on behalf of the promoter, she will speak to the esteemed representative Sandra Bencic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55915	I thank the chairman. First of all, I would like to say that these fantastic locks of yours, the flood of requests for an investigative commission, the second request in this conference, are the second request for an investigative commission in this session. The first was for an investigative committee on obstacles and problems in investigative and judicial proceedings related to political corruption, so now after everything that happened in the meantime from that requirement that you refused to do the same to today, where these problems were revealed both at the level of the investigation and at the level of the judiciary, after the whole debate we had here on the Supreme Court, now tell me that this investigation committee was not necessary and there was no public interest, as you are now saying about this. And it's fantastic that this committee is being investigated for saying that we didn't need it because it's precisely an investigation into this issue of these words to initiate an unknown someone. This should be examined how, why, who was the supervisor, who gave the used permission, everything to be examined, will be examined. Pedja Grbin did not say the president of our club, Tomislav Tomaševic, said no one from the opposition, he said no less than your President Andrej Plenkovic. That's what he said. After that, your Minister Darko Horvat says the following. There's going to be an investigation, and he says the Central State Department of Reconstruction has all the credible data, so we can look into what happened, we'll look into it. Where is the investigation, where are the results of the investigation announced by the prime minister and announced by the minister? Because watch out when the prime minister and minister announce that there will be an investigation, and there is no investigation then they must also question their responsibility to both the public and parliament. Because it's possible that the prime minister is going out with a flat-rate statement that he's going to conduct an investigation into something and then he doesn't spend it for six months. Is that the prime minister we have? And not to investigate anything so that it is now a small matter, but to investigate potential irregularities in the restoration that may have resulted in the possible destruction or destruction of houses in the midst of an earthquake. So it doesn't matter. He promised to investigate, he didn't. At the same time, we have submitted a request that this same assembly within its powers make an investigative commission that is not an opposition investigation committee. The investigation committee and its composition are the same as the composition of the entire parliament and the tide. So you have most of it anyway. So you have most of the members in that investigation committee, and you don't want to. You are not afraid of conclusions because you will manage it, you are afraid of it, you are afraid of the public, you are afraid that the public will hear and that they will have the right to see because they have the right to see all those documents that could show that the state has not done good surveillance, that some of the records that should have been dedicated to the restoration are never committed and that these houses are not legalized. That today because these houses aren't legalized people can't rebuild them after the earthquake. That we have 80% of the homes in Bania that aren't legalized and they won't be able to get a renovation. This is according to not only the writings of the media but also the statements of some experts. And that someone might have to be responsible for that. That's what you're afraid of, not us from the opposition, you're afraid of the public, you're not answering the public. Because you know when a man like an architect says that houses restored after the war in this earthquake shouldn't have happened, not that they shouldn't have been destroyed, they shouldn't have gotten a sticker, when a man who owns one of those houses that collapsed says, I didn't do it, I was done by the state at the renovation, so they restored all the houses in this area without concrete and iron, not just in the Strasnik who died after the war and stayed with several whole houses. Renovate my friend they've come to us heads. And you to such, to such feedback of the citizens of the field you do not want... [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55916	Thank you very much. We have reports of injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Dear Representative Bacic, what has the Rules of Procedure been injured in?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55917	Well, Article 238. In view of these allegations that the state will not restore illegal facilities in Banovina, I would be interested in whether Mrs. Bencic, since Makarska is the same thorny area of Mr. Latkovic's illegal facilities on Vruja, would you renew them if such an earthquake occurred on the, on, on the Macarian coast.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55918	Slowly, slowly, it wasn't this violation of the Rules of Procedure, so I'm giving a warning, and fellow Bencic you won't be having a discussion with the people of the bench, please. The Honorable Representative Mazhar is in violation of the Rules of Procedure. What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55919	The Honorable Vice-President has injured Article 238 with two untruths, one untrue that no investigation is carried out. So, exactly the opposite of the authorities have excluded the documentation, the reconnaissances are classified and the investigation is ongoing. And the other fact is that 80% of the facilities aren't legalized and they won't have a renewal. So, colleague Mrak Taritash said that according to the Law to restore all the facilities that were in the reconstruction were legalized under the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55920	My colleague Mazhar and you know that it was a replica, not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, because if someone is telling the truth or not telling the truth, lying or not lying, it's not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, so you get a warning. The next replica is a respected representative of Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55921	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues Bencic well the weather is still a little plastic when once it's a bit abstract when they come from the other side of the assembly. Remember that we heard promises that some legislative proposals would be made before May 31st, you don't remember then you weren't in the assembly, but I remember that one minister had been announcing a strategy for the development of agriculture for four years, and here he says, "Fresh is just what's still drying in ink." It's been drying for four years. So it's a very plastic time. But you've made a good point. Someone's afraid of the investigation. Why? That's the question. Who and why? He's transferring this Gunja, the restoration of Gunja after the flood, so who can establish a commission for them to make a proposal that we'll also support. So every form of corruption, and this one, too, needs to be eradicated, needs to send a message that it won't pass but a passport, and we're again sending a message that was... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55922	Dear representative Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55923	I agree, Mr. Hajdukovic, and I'll tell you something else. You see, when I mentioned now that the prime minister had announced the investigation, I thought he had announced an investigation into the institutions he led, so the government would possibly support, by means of his majority in parliament, a request for an investigative commission, but it didn't occur to me that when he announced that there would be an investigation that would be conducted by independent judicial bodies because as far as I heard what he was saying, he allegedly didn't order them to do the investigation and when they weren't doing the investigation. So I certainly believe that the premiums did not keep their promise because if he kept it in a way that he ordered the DORH to investigate and to exclude the documentation then we have a very serious problem in this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55924	Honorable representative Posavec Krivec.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55925	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues Bencic, we referred this proposal after a devastating earthquake occurred in the area of Sisak-Moslavina County and after he actually pointed to possible failures in the restoration of post-war, post-war reconstruction of buildings. Now why does it matter to us? Because the reconstruction of objects that suffered from 4 to 6 degrees of damage in Sisak-Moslavina County was organised and cost 2 billion and 200 million kuna of Croatian taxpayers' money. It was precisely organised in a way that a reconstruction programme was implemented, that public procurement was carried out for each house, that the designer was contracted, that the contractor was known professional, which is the problem of carrying out an audit of this and seeing where the problems are. What are we afraid of? So it's very fast and easy to do. Is there anything else you're hiding?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55926	Dear representative Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55927	I thank the chairman. So yes, it seems to me that the precisely problem is why HDZ never agrees with the investigative committee in parliament is an element of the public that this investigation has. So the fact that the documentation would actually have to be given to the public, in order to see if there were really problems in the surveillance, but also building, that there were really problems with the performers. So all of what's actually in the public interest to determine so they know how to prevent it from happening to us again. So let's also say that we might come to the conclusion that once we renew that it might be better to give some more money right away so that we don't have to renew it over 15-20 years again than to go to minimum and basic and that might be the conclusion. But why are such conclusions afraid of this side? Because the public She saw and that's the problem. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55928	The next debate will be the respected representative of Goran Ivanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55929	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, if you would like to speak as my colleague Hajdukovic says, so he says if I wanted to be bad, then you would say next that your initiative has experienced a serious fiasco, a serious fiasco, and there you must agree absolutely with me. 44 parliamentary deputies signed this initiative to set up an investigative commission. Of the 44 MPs who signed this, there are five of you among them. I thank you, of course, and welcome that here and Mrs. Bencic has taken on this role and is really doing and defending this initiative to establish an investigative commission. HDZ is not some bad organization that wants to make fun of someone right now, but here I am as the man who sits here all day I want to think too much about what we want to accomplish in this way. It is often said here in the Croatian Parliament that we must trust the institutions of the Croatian state, that we must fight for an independent judiciary, that we must root out corruption in our society, and then it seems to me that somehow in a political way we Parliamentarians want to interfere in the work of the institutions that are in charge and who know better the problem we are talking about. We used to tell them I wouldn't go, we don't go on hand and we're contradictory of what we stand for. I'm going to speak as a man here who's a little bit prepared for this point, we've also had the preparation as a club, we consider this a serious topic, and then we took the time to prepare ourselves and try too much to talk from this pay phone. Branko Bačić is a man who has been here for years in the Croatian Parliament and I will agree with his conclusion that the 158,000 objects in space have been restored immediately after the end of the Storm and all this work until 2010, without any help from Europe and the world, only 4% of some of the revenues that have come from some other sources, everything else has been from the source of the Croatian budget, which was already devastated by war events and everything that has happened in Croatia, certainly a major undertaking. And there's no speech at all, and yet the prime minister at the time was this or that, we brought people back to the facilities, what I'm more concerned about, and now we're paying that price, that a good part of the people never came back to those restored objects again. It's a problem that we can actually look at too much and real right now, with a moment of time. I wish every object had been filled, that the whole family had returned to it that had been exiled and exiled from its territory and even those families that did not express Croatian nationality, had returned to the area from which they had left. But we have something else. There was an earthquake at a banana that was really much, much stronger than the earthquake that was in Zagreb and a number of houses collapsed, let's be honest, as ugly as it may sound, but it's a small number of houses, only 9 houses from these 26 000 houses that were renovated in Banovina space have collapsed. He could have collapsed for any other reason, in 2010, completed the reconstruction, the pens, the journals, it all took over, but let's be honest, people could have done some reconstructions after that and perhaps not consulted the profession, the statisticians and everything that goes along with it. Therefore, for all that someone did in the reconstruction, and it was related to crime, so of course it should be investigated, such people should be brought to justice, accused them of what they did, which they did to taxpayers who pay the RH tax, and I think that this whole story may have been as Miro said at the beginning of this debate, perhaps more politically motivated at some time when the initiative was committed than what we are now in this time, it can prove it at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55930	Thank you, we have several replicas, but first the respected representative Hajdukovic has raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55931	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, an officer has been injured. 238. because a colleague Ivanovic insults MPs by implying that there are unserious and unrelenting MPs speaking of signatories, he said that some are very serious and respectable among them, which means that there are inconclusive and unrespectable?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55932	All right, colleague Hajdukovic, you and I both know that this has nothing to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure, so I give you a warning and then we go to the replica of the respected representative Posavec Krivec.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55933	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague, you say this initiative has experienced a fiasco. I wouldn't say that this initiative has experienced a fiasco because it's quite clear from the argument that we all put on the table today that there's a certain fear on your part about the investigation committee happening. Why is there that fear? That's the key question that no one gives an answer to. So you're talking about the fiasco of an initiative that puts in front of you two, three times the lives of our fellow citizens in Bania or Banovina, however you like, as you prefer, people are without everything, one in the war, then the state has restored them and then they've lost everything again at the moment when the earthquake hit them. And that's our reality, and it's time for us to help these people because they got hurt twice and we're still maybe stolen. That's what we want to see if they might have been stolen at some point.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55934	Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55935	I was in Banovina when the earthquake happened and don't try to impute something I didn't say at all, which I didn't even want to say a word about from this pay phone. When I said that this initiative had experienced a fiasco, then I thought about the start of the delivery, or when on behalf of the promoter, Mr. Peja Grbin. Without any information that he said, Pero Pepic restored the house, restored his company's house and that, they stole 3 tons of iron, stole 5 tons of cement, then I'd say that's 10 examples like that, 20, 50, 100 but without a single figure, I asked him 3 clear and exceeded questions, he didn't answer any of them. So in that sense, I think that this initiative has experienced a fiasco and this is seen by the number of interested signatories of this initiative that are not here.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55936	Thank you very much. Next replica, the esteemed representative Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55937	Thank you. I will give you the right because the problem is really why there is no part of those who are signatories of this initiative but I will ask you that because it is quite significant that one who does not speak at all on behalf of the promoter and the signator is and has the right, so all clubs have the right that they have signed because so we have put together the initiative, the only ones who do not use it, who are not even present here are Croatian sovereigns, Most and Homeland Movement. Now I'm asking you, he gave it to you because there was actually no problem with the present or the present, right, there's no problem or you might have talked to them about not supporting this initiative, so I'm asking you if you have any idea how they disappeared this way as if they were abducted by aliens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55938	Here you are, dear representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55939	Maybe we should set up an investigative committee to determine why these three clubs aren't here, I don't have another answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55940	Your Honor, Mr. Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55941	Thank you very much. So here we've found a few facts today, so the profession has found that 13,000 objects have a yellow and red sticker, 96 of which is related to the organized reconstruction of the state is 9 most likely to have to go substitutically. The profession also found that according to the magnitude of the earthquake, there had to be imminent damage to the houses as well as the possibility of falling part. It was also found that this initiative was political and that it was essentially not based on any facts. We've seen a lot of ignorance today, so I'd say before ignorance, rather than untrue about legality, illegality, etc., so we don't know the matter, and now that institutions are doing their job, when institutions are conducting secret reconnaissances and investigators would like to be those times partying and suing, the party judges you. It's gone.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55942	Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55943	Thank you very much. I agree with all those who say that even one broken house is a lot. And there's no problem at all about my opinion. But the earthquake is an elementary accident he must leave a mark in the space and what his fellow Mazhar said, these are the figures. So many houses with yellow and red stickers, so many objects that are going to collapse and these are numbers. It is necessary to discuss this, and to interfere with the work of institutions that are responsible for dealing with justice in Croatia, I do not think...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55944	Please don't insert the speaker, I'm asking you nicely not to interrupt the speaker, please. Are you done?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55945	Well, here I am.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55946	The esteemed representative of the Grmoy has raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55947	The Rules of Procedure have been injured, so I couldn't be here, the 238th colleague Bencic, who is false, we have supported this initiative clearly, and I, because of the Greens' initiative in the European Parliament where I am actually being tried by Croatia, which is being shown as some intolerant country, I am still receiving threats addressed to me, to my family, and I will not allow it. If anyone's dealing with HDZ, it's you because the same rhetoric has Prime Minister Plenkovic. And you. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55948	Thank you nicely this is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure you know yourself, you get a warning, and please your mutual relations between the parties either coalition, or a secret coalition leave for outside this assembly. I'm asking you nicely. Please, colleagues Bencic, colleagues Bencic, please. The next replica of Honored Representative Raukar Gamulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55949	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My dear colleague, you said an investigation was necessary, but now I'm asking you how to investigate it, who's going to investigate it? Because it doesn't make sense that just setting up a commission in this high house is an opportunity for us to explore this situation with common forces. Well, you don't expect us to walk each other and explore amateurally. Well, I guess that, uh, I guess the respect for the institutions requires that this case be done once and for all, one investigation and the institution of things. Just so you don't throw yourself at that renovation. That's exactly why. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55950	Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55951	I certainly consider myself an amateur investigator, I have absolutely no idea about research, I have no references and I would never want to be an investigator and put on my back to do something I'm not dressed for. And you really would never want to do that, you wouldn't be able to talk into any investigative committee, I don't have those professions, and I'm not those professions. What my colleague Mazhar said was absolutely correct. And now they are doing reconnaissances based on what was said in your initiative in early January, or on what people wanted to show their examples and prove that there were irregularities. So let's let the investigation be over, let the culprits find themselves, and let them answer for it. I think that's the fairest thing it can be.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55952	Rada Boric will now speak with a respected representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55953	... The question is whether citizens will trust Mr. Bačić or Mr. Boric, who insists on defending that this commission is not needed or whether they will believe that this is not a bad proposal however we are not to blame for this going and discussing it 6 months later. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] And let's hear some reconnaissances work or check so one day we'll get results. So, if we trust you, thank you for being here, it's going to be an important topic when you're here. You must count that the opposition is often not encouraged to be here knowing that whatever it proposes even then wants to share something with a position so that we finally make this Croatia a better and more transparent country, that it seems to her that it is useless to waste time when she knows how it will be revoted. So here's the question, are we going to trust Mr. Bacic's soldier to his own party or are we going to trust architects who spoke like this? It's nothing but a crime of restoration after the war. All that was done through the renovation was to be passed almost and intact, so perhaps all the noises were yet to fall. Interestingly, it defends itself here that up to 8880 buildings, interesting, otherwise Gard Zagreb, if you don't know, also owns 8888 city-owned buildings, and so somehow this is a good number for me, so 96 has red, 1500 yellow, so here's only 9 for demolition. Well, even those hundreds of houses, can't we check how possible it is if architects claim that none if the building was built the way it was supposed to be made, it didn't need anything to happen to her, but it took a little bit of it from the ceilings to scrape a little bit of painting, painting, or whatever. What else are the architects telling us, why was that happening? Maybe the problem is that for years we've been dealing with the things that we have now in this renovation and that's how it's possible that after 30 years we don't have arranged land-books, that we don't have organized catastres? How is it possible that buildings were being renovated without building permits and there are exactly what number because it was a special procedure. So here today we hear you check the offer here, but you didn't say it like that while the mayor was Mr. Žinić, who just said it like this and you know that he was in charge of post-return, it wasn't projects that were done, it was instructions for recovery. Look, recovery instructions, the lowest level that could have happened. So even projects weren't done without construction permits. Now that you've sacrificed it, when we've seen for ourselves the consequences of his concern for the restoration, now we can, alone, go find houses, ask for a BOOK to intervene or I don't know what else. In today's version of the Construction Act, there's still an exception, they probably know that, here's our colleague here, that in a situation like these, it's post-traumatic so that it can be renewed without building permits, but do you know what's in the law? The law states that it is possible to build buildings without a building permit but it can only be 2 years or after 2 years will be removed or a building permit will be issued. So tell me what we're gonna do. The idea of a committee of inquiry was to see what happened if indeed the problems were 200-thousand performers, 80 projectors and surveillance, if the problem was of all 200-tiers, so why would everyone be responsible for a bad job? Why if there were more than 80 different supervisory authorities who did this, why would they all be criminals if the architects here say it's nothing but crime, to say I don't understand, concrete panels can't be placed without vertical serclages without a building permit, whatever that means. So if that's what the waist says, which we could have done to keep this from happening again and this is going to happen again.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55954	We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55955	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. These opening remarks of your colleague Boric, about this model of which this Parliament is working, about how opposition work is in advance demoted because we know in advance that nothing will go through what we propose, can only agree with them, noting that perhaps it should not discourage us and I don't think it discourages us. At least not all of us, but what worries a lot more is whether it demotes or not is the fact that it in some way refutes the essence of parliamentaryism. If parliamentaryism is a dialogue and a rational argument that is "son ira et studio", then when it is proposed something that is good, and this is one such thing, then it should still be respected or at least considered without the apriori being rejected.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55956	Dear representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55957	Well, you're right, and it saddens me why I can't tell you why someone else isn't here, but it's a good thing you're here, but there's a situation when something else is being discussed and we're testifying, so here's an example. And last night, we'll see tomorrow that I'm thinking the same thing, only yesterday was one of your colleagues here or some two, three people, which means he's talking about exactly that, whether we're really ready for dialogue here. Today it seems like you're armed, as if by the idea of having a commission we wanted to produce, what? The question was that when we talked about COVID in the autumn, about anything, I may be personally naive and believe that in situations that are extremely difficult for Croatia, there is no separation on the right and left rather than whether something is sustainable or something is not sustainable, and this is not sustainable or such a debate, nor will the situation in Banovina be better.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55958	Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55959	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague, Boric, I was just about to step up to that very beginning of your debate. In fact, we on this side of the assembly are not afraid to support something that we consider constructive and good, which is irrelevant to who it comes from, so also from the ruling ones. On the other hand, the apriori rejects everything that comes from the opposition but unfortunately it is one bad modulus of our political rivals from HDZ because I will only remind you, when they were in opposition, they refused absolutely everything that they found on the agenda in this home. Everything. So from the legal proposals, the good that can be against, to the benign things, I mean the benign ones, like the report by the occupier who often knew was actually critical of the executive government. Everything that was on the agenda back then didn't work out and now all of a sudden it's okay. So it's some kind of paradigm that needs to be changed, maybe more people in this House should read Webber.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55960	Reply by Honored Representative Boric Can I give you my word? [[Invader Boric: Which one of us reads, here comes...]] Here you go. [[Intruder Boric: Excuse me.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55961	We may read a bit more fun and easier literature this summer, but in any case, the consequences of the parties as HDZ, you could learn from Zagreb and why others took over the management of Zagreb so that you could no longer do so for the party or Mr Bandic, either whenever the opposition had a proposal, for example. The proposal to improve or increase compensation for parents with children with disabilities voted against, only because the opposition proposed it. Maybe that's why the voters punished you. So, I don't think about this home if it's about COVID, if it's about the earthquake, so I guess we don't want it bad. That only you would want to be losers like COVID's if you didn't accept our suggestions. And please, either I've lived in another country where God gives me, in Parliament, key things are being arranged.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55962	Thank you very much. I'm begging you, let's stick to the subject, now obviously we've gone to City Hall and to vote in City Hall and all sorts of things, please, stick to the subject. All right, but let's stick to the subject. I'm asking all of us to stick to the subject. [[Intruder Boric: That was the question, I'm sorry, that's what my colleague asked, so I answered.]] Dear fellow Capulico, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55963	The esteemed chairman, therefore, is responsible for the replica, lectured the HDZ on this need to lead the policy and enter the geneaze of why someone has passed the election. So at the vote of budget rebalancing, the SDP did not support any amendments to the Mosta, apriori. So, please, 238. Therefore, do not lecture others on how they behave in parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55964	Okay, well, I'd like to ask you first to stop this violation of the Rules of Procedure that are not in violation of the Rules of Procedure, of benches, etc. It seems to me that they're getting a little nervous and unnecessarily. It is debated on the subject and only on the subject, and not on everything and everything, whatever comes to mind, so let's ask you nicely, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, uh, let's, let's, uh, let's, let's, uh, let's, let's, uh, let's, let's, let's, uh, let's, let's, let's, uh, let's, let's, uh, let's, uh, let's, let's, uh, let's, uh, let's, let's, let's, let's, uh, let's, uh, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, uh, let's, uh, let's, let's, uh, uh, uh, uh, let's, let's, uh, let's, uh, let's, let's, let's, uh, uh, uh, uh, let's, let's, let's, uh, uh, let's, let's, uh, let's, let's, let, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let, let, let, let, let's, let, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, let's, uh, uh, let's, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, Whatever you want. It's up to you. My colleague Grumo, you insist on hurting the Rules of Procedure? All right, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55965	He's been injured. 238, so it's true that colleagues from We can! They did not support any of our amendments but neither of you nor our amendment, the only one who was correct is a colleague named Bauk who followed all the amendments and supported a large majority of the amendments that were infrastructureary, so they went for the benefit of our people and you and those against these amendments voted. And the only man who did the right thing yesterday, so around these threats... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55966	Okay, thank you very much, you're getting a warning, we're going to the next individual debate of the respected representative Ursha Raukar Gamulin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55967	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The parliamentary majority's position, led by HDZ, is that they have no intention of supporting the establishment of a commission that would shed light on all the facts of a potentially questionable postwar house, unfortunately puts them clearly...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55968	Come on, let's not, colleague Ursha Raukar Gamulin speaks, it doesn't make sense, especially from one end to the other to shout, it really doesn't make sense, here you go, respected MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55969	I repeat, therefore, that the refusal to set up a commission by the majority in this Assembly headed by the HDZ puts aside those who, according to current indicators, were entities and such questionable and suspicious post-war renewals. The HDZ continues to protect such and similar suspicious processes by justifying itself that it does not want to throw away a great shining reconstruction project, post-war reconstruction, and things are logically the opposite. Therefore, the delay in post-war renewal is being cast out by refusing a public investigation into possible irregularities and illegal proceedings because this increases both the opinion and the views that the suspicions are justified. The public interest in the establishment of this commission is clearly determined, it is a matter of protecting the lives of people and the security of their property which has been the subject of post-war renewal and of course the equality of all citizens against the laws of the Republic of Croatia. It is also of exceptional public interest to finally start to clear up murky and suspicious jobs from past periods, to establish possible illegality, guessing or corruption in the specific case of post-war reconstruction of homes in Bania. Croatia is unfortunately extended and cross-netified by theft, corruption, non-prosecution, fraud by law-playing. We can often hear how late it is now, how nothing can be proved, how it doesn't make sense anymore. But it's neither true nor correct. If we do not deal with the old cases of possible multi-million-dollar fraud, then always in this society and behind this society, they will draw the burden of illegal and dishonest treatment at the expense of public interest in which they have always and the deepest end of the food chain, they are the weakest and most vulnerable and thus generate new and similar cases and new and new and new injustices. Non-clearing such possible criminal situations is thus sending a message that this is permitted or even desirable behavior. The consequence of not clearing up such unfair, illegal, criminal acts is the fact that today, unfortunately, we are one of the most corrupt countries in the EU. That stealing and kidnapping of public goods in every sense is a daily phenomenon, unfortunately almost common and acceptable practice at all levels. And the public interest should be above any individual interest. It should be a joint effort and a common goal both of the government and of the parliament to really start a genuine and comprehensive fight against corruption, against nepotism, against fraud, against theft. It is necessary to clarify and investigate all suspicious situations from the past whose consequences the citizens of this country suffer today. And that's why establishing this committee is important. It is also important for citizens affected by the earthquake in Banja, but it is important for Croatian society as a whole.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55970	The next debate will be the respected representative Bojan Glavasevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55971	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues of the things we're talking about today really shouldn't be the subject of division. What we've proposed is not the interest of the opposition but of the public interest. First of all, it is the interest of citizens and citizens of Petrinja, Gline, Sisak and all of Bania or Banovina, however much you prefer, but it is also the interest of all of Croatia because if there was a crime in the post-war restoration it is a splash in the face of all of us. Crime in postwar recovery is nothing more than a kind of war profit and even worse profit on other people's torture, misery and poverty. That is why listening to the debate so far has really surprised me that colleagues and colleagues from HDZ seem to see the proposal to set up this investigative commission as an attack on themselves. The fact is that for the past 30 years, war profiters have often had a HDZ membership card, but this does not mean that this initiative is directed against HDZ. .../The speaker speaks in a foreign language./... If anything is precisely because in the past war profiteers often carried a HDZ membership card should be of interest to you to support this initiative and thus show the public a clear distance and fence from all those who have brought your party to a bad vote and the defendant's bench, let's not forget. It seems to me that the opposition to this investigation committee is doing one thing I'm hoping to accidentally replace the thesis. In fact, if you think of this initiative as an attack on yourself, you're actually explicitly taking responsibility for all possible crimes in the restoration. And your colleague Bencic told you nicely, it wasn't just your governments that ran the renovation. Looking at you and listening to your opposition to investigate whether their lives are further threatened by crime in the restoration of the population and the people of Bania can only wonder what they have done and blamed you for not loving them so much that you do not want to enlighten them the truth about what happened. What have they done to the government and its president to break both the law and the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament rather than to appear here and participate in this debate? Yesterday I read from this pay phone an open letter to the citizens of Petrinjska Spring initiative. It is an initiative that brings together several thousand citizens and citizens of Petrinja who ask questions, seek answers and unfortunately face ignoring and silence. And Petrinja recently elected a recent new mayoral office right from HDZ. If you are unable to support this initiative for the right reasons of your colleague and colleague, support them from the wrong. Support her at least so that this mayor of your ranks doesn't turn your back this way and you don't put her in a position to justify your opposition to the truth in front of your fellow citizens and fellow citizens. And rest assured, you will have to be justified. Justice is basically the essence of this initiative. Justice. Not an attack on HDZ, but justice for the citizens of Bania or Banovina, however much you prefer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55972	Thank you. We have two replicas, the first respected representative of the Hood.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55973	Here's a distinguished colleague when I listened to you, a colleague, a colleague Bencic, a colleague of Boric and other signatories of this initiative I realized, I guess I understood well that the main objective of this initiative is to learn lessons and that will be used in the future during this renewal. And then I ask the question, given the data on the number of houses that have been renovated by the state, and they have been badly affected by this earthquake, why do you learn these lessons from 9 or 99 houses? Today, on behalf of the drivers of the investigation of this initiative, it was said that if the building was built properly, no building should have been killed in this earthquake. This is what we heard today on behalf of the promoters, initiators of the initiative, 4902 houses are in red of it, as we heard 4506 houses that weren't covered by the renovation why not start an initiative to see how all these houses were all 4900 and something built, done. supervised, designed, why were they not supposed to be torn down by this earthquake... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[Speakers speaking at the same time do not understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55974	The answer to a respected representative of Glavasevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55975	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I think it's what's called whataboutism. So, what you're saying is "whataboutism." So now you're setting up, instead of address what we're talking about here and talking about the houses that were restored and who died in the earthquake and which may have been in some way, maybe in some way been the subject of crime in the restoration. So that's what we're talking about and you're asking a question and then why don't we talk about everything? I mean, we're talking about this. This is what we're talking about. You guys run an initiative on why all the other houses are down. Why not? That's why you'd get our support. So I don't understand why you're opposed to something that doesn't actually go against you and your party, you have nothing to lose, you can just get, but you have to understand it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55976	Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55977	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, I would really like to highlight what you said, but additionally give weight to part of the text mentioned in this initiative, it is nice to note that 25 000 houses and apartments have been renovated in the area of Sisak-Moslavina County, in the area of the entire Republic of Croatia, 158,000 houses and apartments. Also, there is a clear emphasis on the public's interest and on the issues to be examined by the investigating committee, here I will repeat question 7 that says what quality of reconstruction is outside of Sisak-Moslavina County and are there risks to the security of property and people in other areas covered by the reconstruction? So, my favorite word as a health care professional is prevention, so let's all have that kind of prevention, learning a lesson, every house is important if you 100 houses suck, it's not. And just because people expect some answers from us, I really don't understand why you would object to such an investigative commission being set up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55978	Thank you. Dear Representative Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55979	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Thanks for the line. I mean, thank you both for your replicas. The point is that all the questions that are raised here are kind of looking for an answer. I mean, it's important that we find answers. And I can only repeat that it's completely unclear to me why anyone would take this initiative as an attack on himself. That's why in no way am I, here as someone from the opposition, I don't see it implicated here that it would be an attack on you or on your colleagues and colleagues on this side of the assembly. So, the truth is in everyone's interest, and above all, it's in the interest of the safety of citizens and citizens because we don't know what can happen tomorrow. I mean, I don't want to be a bad prophet and I don't want to be pessimistic right now, but there are unpredictable times in which we live and nature is unpredictable and security is important and we need to keep an eye on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55980	Thank you. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Mira Totgergeli, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55981	Thank you, Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Well, from the very first minute of this debate today, it's actually visible that when this proposal came about, and that's only three weeks after the earthquake, that it occurred at a time when media inscriptions and reports were directed as if all the houses that after the war in Sisak-Moslavina County had been restored were the most affected in this now earthquake that was. And probably that's why the opposition at that point, thinking it was a political issue, a topic that could be reached political points before the local elections, immediately, means the 29th 12th earthquake, already went to write this proposal on January 21st. When you read this proposal in detail, then you can see that not exactly the experts were consulted during this writing, and of course there is no data in there that is really a state of restoration, as far as the houses that have suffered in the restoration are concerned, which is in some way logical because in those three weeks, it could not have been collected. Now throughout this debate we have heard various interpretations of the profession. I'm sure your colleague Mrak-Taritash knows very well by which regulations the houses were restored at the time of the Homeland War and when we look at those regulations, then it's clear that this horizontal accelerant was prescribed that the houses must last 0.05 g, your g is 10 m/s, and that the earthquake that was really with the magnitude of 6.2 or 6.4 created that accelerant of 0.3 to 0.4 g, which is 6 to 8 times more. And now if it's made by the regulations that were at the time, it's logical that this kind of earthquake can't take it. However, the figures continue to say that just the best are the last houses that were restored after the war because if it was restored from category III, IV, V and VI, somewhere around 9000 objects and only 96 have a yellow and red sticker, while all the other houses only have 4600 and a yellow 8,000, then I'm just saying, the figures say that the renovation was done very well in most cases. Now, you're not going to form a commission for one case, you're going to form a commission when you think something mass happened, that there was mass theft, that something mass was happening at the time of the renovation. But now that the numbers are six months after we can collect them, when we have them denied. After all, the promoter who was the first person to talk about what was going on, I already mentioned that he escaped from the hall. Now I see later that the proposings almost got in a fight with each other, and I thought I had to go defend my colleague Grumo from my colleague Bencic in order not to physically attack him, how angry she was at him and vice versa, so I think my colleague was really right when he said that this initiative had experienced a fiasco. All the things that you wrote this about three weeks after the earthquake, later you were denied, you were denied and the figures in the local elections so that we of course will not support this initiative because it is totally full. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55982	We have several of these replicas. The first is a respected representative, and excuse me, is it a violation of the Rules of Procedure or a replica? The replica of the esteemed representative of Grumoja. Here you go. ... All right, well, then, honourable counsel Bencic, here you go. [[Intruder: You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55983	It is not surprising to us that HDZ will not support this initiative because every time there is a suspicion of any possible illegality, the crimes of HDZ refuses to speak about it, so it is well known to all citizens so you do not have to explain it specifically to us now and ask as a foll of arguments why you will reject this initiative. However, I am interested in how in that logic of yours you explain the fact that you are refusing the possibility of a public investigation into a matter that is of public interest to all citizens by saying that you are protecting the character and the work itself, while saying that there is an investigation of the DORH precisely because of the possible malversions that took place in the same restoration. So, for DORH, there's enough indication to exclude documentation, examine it and see if there's been any illegalities, but there's no evidence for you. It's a familiar situation, for you no evidence is ever enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55984	Dear Representative Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55985	Comrade Bencic, you're trying to replace the thesis in an interesting way. This initiative of yours went for what you thought was a mass phenomenon at the time, so you wanted to score a little bit on it in public. You're being denied by the numbers now, and this debate today, because through the debate, you haven't given the numbers that it's some kind of mass phenomenon. And it's perfectly logical that if there are individual cases where something happened that wasn't in accordance with the law to investigate the institutions of the state. And that makes sense to every citizen in this country and then to me. And that's why I don't understand you at all why you're trying to replace the thesis and show something that figures, which data confirms is an individual case, you're now trying to replace that thesis and say you need a commission for this individual case.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55986	The next is the replica of the respected representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55987	Thank you very much. A respected colleague can't agree with any more of the thesis you've presented. First why you think all we do is collect political points. You brought that up at the beginning of your debate. The second you're saying so here were some 96 houses, it's not a mass phenomenon, so we don't even know how many of those cases were, and that's exactly the goal of this commission to investigate how many cases there were and to investigate each case. And the next thing you know, right after the earthquake, and later on, the profession was saying, "The renovated houses had to stay intact, and we have the dead, we have the ruins, it's crime." I also quote Prime Minister Plenkovic that I think it is necessary to examine how and why this happened, who was working, who was monitoring, who was giving final use of the permits. The DORH, the Central State Office for Reconstruction, etc., is mentioned, so if your prime minister has repeatedly said that an investigation of every case is needed, then why are you rebelling against this investigative committee to determine what all cases are? How many were there? [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55988	Dear Representative Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55989	Well, here I am personally rebelling against this committee because you didn't convince me that it was necessary. You haven't convinced me through this whole debate with arguments and data that it's necessary. Put together things that don't go together. You say the victims were people, they were rebuilding, they were torn down houses, it's guilty of rebuilding after the Homeland War, but you don't know how many houses were restored, which of them were torn down, how many people in those houses that had been restored suffered in any way because now the data that the headquarters had presented and had presentations and made public speaking exactly the opposite, say that these very houses that had been restored after the war were much better tolerated than those that had not been restored.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55990	The next replica of the respected representative, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55991	Thank you very much. My colleagues, Totgergeli, you have well noticed that this decision to set up this investigative committee has challenged the entire opposition. It just happens on every document like this or on the interpretations. They go and they end up fighting like the gentlemen of the green-left block and the Most. I heard what Mrs. Bencic said to her colleague Grumoji and it's not right for him to say so to a colleague because he has the right to think what he's saying, but this message they're sending doesn't even stand behind this practical fight. The opening speech of a colleague of the coat of arms, on a few questions he does not know the answer. He's talking about impellating, not making a decision. Well then we have these stories by the team from We can, so then MOST, the Homeland Movement has fenced something, the sovereigns who also signed don't want to say anything at all. So they're aware that what they've shown today and what they're discussing with the public is actually disabling them, and this fight between MOST and We can certainly have its results in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55992	Thank you. Dear Representative Miro Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55993	Well, here's my colleague, Boric, I agree with you for a good part, and now I'm going to take the opportunity to respond to your replica to even answer my colleague why I think this is political. Well, it's that fact that now that you've all signed it together, when it was before the local elections, and that when you all thought you'd benefit from it, then you've been doing it with each other, and now that you have to defend it here in the assembly, you're fighting with each other.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55994	The Republic also has a respected representative of the Grmoi.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55995	Thank you. The esteemed colleague, therefore there is no conflict, the position of the entire opposition on this proposal is the same. It is that this commission can help us to see where we have sinned in the past so that our mistakes may not be repeated now in this restoration that awaits us. And God forbid you defend me from anyone, neither you nor your colleague, Boric. So please don't defend me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55996	A colleague, Boric, has committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure. What was hurt in the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55997	Thank you very much. So Article 238, a colleague of Grmoya hurt and insulted this Rules of Procedure because I heard Bencic tell him that he was an offended brat. So this is not appropriate for our parliamentary debates, especially for those at 22 and 26 signed together. So you're talking about a joint document, both of you are undermining it, and then you're giving each other insults that don't contribute to a debate or to your relationships that are better than this assembly shows.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55998	My colleague, Boric, it's not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, you're getting a warning, I'm asking you nicely, let's not go on with this nonsense, please. Dear Representative Totgergeli has a reply to the replica yet.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u55999	Thank you, Vice President. Well, I think it's the duty of each of us Parliamentarians to react when one of the other MPs is doing something that doesn't comply with the statute, when it offends another MP and I expect everyone else when someone does it to me to defend me, and I will do it again when they attack you like this because I think it's in the spirit of parliamentaryism, that we all need to work together to actually raise the Parliament on a higher level than maybe at this point the citizens think it is, and then my contribution to defending you might be in that direction that we can communicate better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u56000	The honourable representative Damir Habian will now be debated. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u56001	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, so I would refer first to this part of which several opposition MPs, or MPs, have brought out here, and where they are actually opposed to themselves. So, on the one hand, they're looking for this proposal to set up an investigative committee, on the other hand, when several parliamentary deputies mentioned that they were conducting reconnaissances and investigations on the same issue, then they're not answering them, then they're looking against whom, why, as it all reminds them of what the mayor of Sisak was yesterday in his justification that he didn't want to give a particular piece of documentation in his defense said that she wanted to know what crime, against whom, etc. So here we need to remind the reconnaissances and pre-examinations are secret procedures and should not be known to them. That's the first thing. This other thing that's also going through here is about the composition of the investigating committee itself. So, according to your proposal, you propose 15 members, 7 from the opposition parties, 8 from the ranks of parties that make up the majority in the Croatian Parliament. By way of derogation from Article 8(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, The law on the investigative committee is clear that only parliamentary representatives in the Croatian Parliament can be present in the investigation committee. Now the question is raised in view of these questions of yours, 7 which you have asked in this proposal, how will Parliamentarians and MPs answer them. So, among other things, they will explore the quality of house renovations. So, with all due respect to everyone, I think there should be statisticians in this commission, so the builders of the person are aware of the issue of rebuilding houses, apartments, statics that you think should explore the connection, illegality or poor quality of restoration with the consequences of the earthquake, so seismologists. So I'm really interested in what you're suggesting in which way we're going to theoretically, hypothetically research committee determine it. That would be really interesting to see. On the other hand, I still think that one provision was not mentioned, but in the existing Law on Reconstruction voted in this House, Article 55, which says very clearly, I will quote it. Therefore, the Ministry of Spatial Planning, Construction and State Property shall have the right and obligation to initiate proceedings and to take the necessary measures and actions in order to enable the initiation of procedures governed by specific regulations for the purpose of determining the responsibility of the participants in the construction of buildings damaged or destroyed by the disaster referred to in Article 1 of the earthquake, renewed or removed under that law which are fundamentally suspected of being damaged or destroyed because of the illegal or unequivocal work of the participants in the construction. Therefore, in the existing legal provisions, you already have this very possibility that you are looking for this investigative committee. Just the difference between what you're proposing, so to this committee where parliamentary deputies and MPs would be sitting here, that's what professionals do, so those who understand this particular problem. The other thing, not to make everything else on these arguments I'm gonna go a little bit into the legal section. So, by a provision of Art. Six. The law on investigating committees is therefore set out that you must set the objective of research and research. In particular, your proposal sets out the quality and legality of the regulations among the research objectives. That's what my colleague Boris was talking about. However, I would mention here the legal issue is in the jurisdiction of the constitutional court. Therefore, in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and in accordance with the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court. In other words, accepting your proposal would actually give this investigative commission authority that it does not have, so they would give him something that, by the very constitution and by the law itself, does not belong to it. Secondly, in point 7 of your proposal, you mention the area of research. Therefore, the proposal proposes to explore the work of the county authorities, representatives of the authorities responsible for organising and implementing, supervision of reconstruction, units of local and regional self-government, HBOR, companies, private companies, and even owners of renovated houses. So art. 2. The law on investigating committees is prescribed that issues of public interest are considered, I quote, the legality of the work of state bodies, public services and legal persons of public law. So in other words, based on this proposal, the investigative commission that you are asking to establish would investigate the work of private companies, independent experts and even homeowners. So, in this case besides this first reason, you're again actually giving this committee hypothetical authority that doesn't belong to any letter of law. For this reason, of course, I cannot personally support this proposal that you have made and is not far from what my colleague Jovanovic said was a fiasco, perhaps a debacle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u56002	We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u56003	Dear colleague, so although I said I agree in the part where you said today that all the representatives of the minimum clubs that signed here on the side of the opposition should be here, I agree with that, I will repeat. But you haven't said a word, so why don't you answer us why there's no one here, but nobody here all day since we've talked about this topic from your coalition partners? And I'll tell you why there isn't. Because none of them can have a clean cheek in front of their voting body to say that there was no problem in rebuilding the houses and that it had nothing to do with this earthquake. Neither the SDSS nor the Reformers where Cacic himself claimed to have reported crimes in connection with the reconstruction when he was a minister, nor could the HSLS say that, nor could the Hrelja say so, and that is why they are not here today. You tell us who's here, count your ranks, none of the coalition partners are on this wheel.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u56004	Answer. Okay. Mr. Totgergeli, breach of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u56005	Thank you, Vice President, the 238th article was injured because my colleague Bencic said that there was none of our coalition partners here, and my colleague Furio Radin was here with us, he fought with us, he gave you his word, he took away his word, he was here all the time from the beginning to the half. [[You're not ashamed of yourself.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u56006	Please, please, please, please. This wasn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Totgergeli. Bencic gets a warning, and you have a reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u56007	Thank you very much, Vice President. I have to admit that I didn't say at all what you mentioned, but here's because you're the principles of this topic, I have to say that our club, if it was here, was a lot stronger than the seven clubs that signed this article of yours, and I think the arguments that we've made here have been much stronger and convinced you, therefore how many of you there are here, I expected at one point that you might give up this war. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u56008	The next replica is the respected representative Maria Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u56009	Thank you very much, Vice President. My dear colleague, this debate and this proposal to set up a commission remind me of the same proposal that we had a little over half a year ago, contentally, the way the proposal was set up, and then the proposal was put so wide that we here should investigate the occurrence of corruption, I don't know how to do it in 6 months, which results we manage to do even though there are institutions involved. And so today, but the opposition is trying to break the blame that we're hiding something, and we don't want them to get sanctioned. We've sent a very clear message here, no, but there are, we're for it, we're even going to co-sign applications that go to the authorities to check it out, so we have institutions. Here, so I'm wondering what do you think the opposition is putting together these suggestions?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u56010	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u56011	Thank you very much. So I can agree with you colleagues, with this proposal being a little bit more modest than what was six months ago, we wait, this next one will probably be even more modest, but it just shows how much it is, and that's what my predecessor was saying, how much the opposition really cares about lighting up any facts, and how much this article is actually used exactly and if we watch the timing end of January in some others, I would say unfortunately, political purposes, and that's what we see now. If you look at this article, so there is not a single particular number in it, and here on the other hand, the actual figures are presented by the MPs and MPs, but then it didn't suit you, you didn't refer to it, but you repeated one and the same without any concrete, so without any specific figures and submitted such a proposal. And by the time you heard the numbers that didn't add up to you, then there was trouble.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u56012	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u56013	Thank you very much. A respected colleague has been injured by an officer. 238, I really rarely raise the injuries of the Rules of Procedure, demeaning and insulting the work of us in opposition. So you can say how much opposition cares about lighting up some facts. So if you're counting how many of us are here, then I'm going to ask why you were here two or three yesterday when we talked about people's health and covido. It means you don't care about the health of our citizens. I mean, you don't talk like that, I'm sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u56014	This was your replica of no violation of the Rules of Procedure, you have a warning. Next replica, Honorable Representative Miro Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u56015	Thank you, Vice President. I agree with you when you said this topic should be dealt with by experts. And I fully agree that if the work of this committee were established as proposed, it would look about like this debate today. There would be a lot of political thesis, there would be a lot of political accusations, but without concrete numbers, without a concrete answer to anything. And then it would be called to experts, and when you take what the experts say and you take what the rules that were true at the time of the renovation look like, then we stop back. I'm 100% convinced that colleague Dark Taritash knows that at the time the renovation was done in '95-2000. that more regulations on technical norms for the construction of buildings in the seismic area, the Official Journal of SFRY 31/81 etc. were in force at that time, where this horizontal acceleration has been prescribed [[Intruder: Time.]] 0.05 G that the buildings have to endure. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u56016	Answer me, but I'm sorry for hurting the Rules of Procedure. Dear Representative Rada Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u56017	My dear colleague, I didn't know that you were.../incomprehensible... because you premise what it would look like, maybe you're psychic Milan, we had such a thing, you premise it to be a commission and what it would know and what it wouldn't know. Well, you don't really have to show that you're the only one who knows everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u56018	This was a pure replica, so you get a warning. Here's a reply to the replica, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u56019	Thank you, thank you very much. So, my colleague, I agree. It's a matter of quality here, not quantity. That's actually the answer to my colleague Maric. So I wasn't even talking about how many of you are here, but I was talking about the spell that you wrote and what you wrote. And not how many numbers are you here and how many of these people are defending it here. And as for the composition of the commission, obviously I have to do it again. You yourself have suggested that it be 15 members, but you are also limited by law that it must be MPs and MPs. I'm talking about this matter on how you asked it must be solved by experts from seismologists, persons from construction, statisticians, etc. I personally don't know if there are 15 such professionals in this assembly, but if there is one here, I apologize in advance. I'm not personally.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u56020	The next replica is Branka Juričev Martinchev's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u56021	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, we hear very much today from our colleagues from opposition to a crime that is more than ten years old, and they say nothing about what they would do, what they would do these days when we say that USKOK is searching the city administration of Sisak, that Ikic Baniček refuses to give evidence, that there is a suspicion of crime in her city. You as an excellent lawyer tell me what you think if one such official can stay even more in such a place, whether her party should be fenced from it, maybe thrown out of the party, which would be wise now and how to fence from these criminal acts that we are witnessing in the city of Sisak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u56022	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u56023	Thank you very much. That's something I was talking about yesterday. What concerns me most in this case is that given the way the first person in the city of Sisak behaves, therefore the SDP lady can most of all fall on the burden of the citizens of Sisak or the legal person himself in that case, it is the town of Sisak threatening 5 million fines in case they do not deliver documents. So it's not just a matter of fines for the mayor to be imposed, it's also a matter of fines that can be imposed on the city of Sisak. And what are the reasons and motives why she acts like this can only be guessed, but as counterpart Boris said let the institutions do their job.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u56024	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Dear representative Dalia Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u56025	Thank you, Chairman. Article 238 has been injured, namely the supporting replica concerning Mrs. Ikic Banič has absolutely nothing to do with the subject that we are discussing here. In this regard, I am not protecting her in any way, I believe that it is a shame for every official who refuses to give information and documentation to the authorities, but it is a practice first started by Kolinda Grabar Kitarović and continued Plenkovic with travel documentation in Helsinki. I don't justify anyone, but you are. They hurt the Rules of Procedure because this is not a topic of debate. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u56026	This was your replica, not the violation of the Rules of Procedure, you get a warning. Let's go to the next replica, the esteemed representative Mariana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u56027	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I believe that you will agree with me that those citizens who died in the Homeland War and lost their homes that their right to a safe home was violated, but also their dignity, and if through the restoration of their houses, certain performers were carrying out activities that were not in favour of those citizens, then their dignity and the right to a safe home was once again injured. I agree with you that certainly parliamentary representatives, especially those involved in the general practice policy, are not specialised in some specific issues concerning the issues of reconstruction. I can't measure whether it was criminal acts or how much serious criminal acts and injuries, but you mentioned that there are certain instruments that we can use already in the existing legal regulations. So can you tell which instruments are involved and what the citizens who are damaged can take.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u56028	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u56029	Thank you very much. Here, I absolutely agree with my esteemed colleague. So, enough to say that 15% of the housing fund died during the Homeland War. So one really huge number over 160,000 so housing that houses, which homes. So, the damage of more than 17 billion kunas speaks enough, so when we talk about the restoration, it actually speaks enough about these serious consequences and what people in this area have actually faced. When I was talking about existing solutions, I was thinking about this law on restoration, so after the earthquake that was just brought into this house and Article 55 which already allows the Ministry and the experts working there to determine in each individual procedure, so those who are now under way in the Banovina area whether there was an irregularity or whether construction was made in the course of the renovations in an unprofessional, illegal manner and that each of these individual procedures is in motion. So, we're going to revise this whole renewal procedure right inside this Rehabilitation Act. So I think there's another reason why I feel that this establishment of the Investigative Commission is absolutely not necessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u56030	On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative of Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u56031	Dear colleagues and colleagues in this address have asked me to discuss my colleagues, Habib, who I must confess, deeply surprised me. My colleague Habian is as professional as I am as a lawyer and before becoming a parliamentary representative he did the same work as I did, the work of a lawyer. And, behold, as lawyers, as lawyers, we conducted judicial proceedings in which we discussed matters concerning construction professions, medical professions, geodetic professions and many other professions. Were we experts? Were we doctors? We didn't. Was the judge who tried the case a doctor, builder, or any other profession? It's not. What's going on in that case? The court shall use experts, expert witnesses, who shall assist in the work of the competent authorities from a professional point of view. The competent authority of the Croatian Parliament shall be responsible for the investigating committees under the Law. The Croatian Parliament is an institution that has in its jurisdiction the establishment of investigative committees. This is the work of the Croatian Parliament. The decision on whether the Croatian Parliament will do this job will be done by the authority it has on us by representatives, MPs and, above all, by representatives of the majority, because it is the majority that has the ability to make decisions. The minority is gone. If there were, there wouldn't be a minority. It'd be most of them. And as the court has the opportunity to hire experts to help him where he doesn't know, where there is no necessary expertise, so under the same conditions has an investigative commission. For there are miracles in Article 10(3). The law on investigating committees states that one way to determine the facts is to hear witnesses, another is to find witches, the third is an eyewitness, and then, if that is not enough in the Law, it is still written for each case and another in order to ensure that Parliament and representatives in the Assembly who may not and may not need to be experts in a particular area come up with accurate and reliable information. All of us who've been in court at least once, and for once, we've seen what artificial art looks like, we know how it works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u56032	We have a few replicas. The first is Honorable Representative Damir Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u56033	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Hubbin, this is the first part you've said nicely, you've described. Indeed, it is the experts who ultimately have faith in the court, but we must bear in mind that it is the court, both the judges and the lawyers. I was talking about that, according to your proposal, it's 15 people who are MPs and MPs who ultimately have to draw the conclusions that you have proposed here. So that's one big and huge difference. On the other hand, I was talking about this precisely if the MPs and MPs here told you that you are already conducting reconnaissances and pre-examinations by those who are competent to determine the facts in this process you are still insisting on conducting or setting up this Research Commission which certainly cannot have the results that we would all want according to our composition. So here you want to show that we have something different goals than you have. No, we're just talking about the way, the purpose, and how in the best way possible and how to get to these conclusions or answers you're looking for, but not through the Investigative Commission. It's certainly not the best way if you really want to determine the right fact.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u56034	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u56035	You are completely wrong about your colleague, Habib, because the reach, goal and area that this Commission of Investigation should cover is far broader and incomparable with the conduct of the criminal proceedings. Read what's in it. Listen to what we've been saying. The goal is to intervene where damage can be removed in the future in those properties that have been badly built and have not yet been affected by the earthquake. And the goal is to learn something about this restoration that's ahead of us. But obviously you in HDZ don't want any of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u56036	The next replica is the respected representative Maria Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u56037	Thank you very much. My dear colleague, I think it is not very good to compare the procedure conducted by the lawyers and ultimately the judge decides with the procedure which should be conducted by the Investigative Commission, and it seems to me that if there were such a commission that, ultimately, with all that the commission would be able to determine. And it seems to me that because of its knowledge, the representatives are not experts to assess whether the house was made in accordance with the regulations, which is why it collapsed or why the damages were caused, so I believe that in these cases it should be artificially and decided by the body responsible. That's why we said let's file applications where you have the knowledge that it happened. We're the same for that, let it be explored. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u56038	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u56039	Dear colleagues, let's go the other way. Let's break the law on investigative committees. Let's abolish the law on investigative committees because investigative committees are unnecessary. The Germans are stupid, the Americans are stupid, the Swedes, the English and everyone else who founded them they have no idea what Parliament's jurisdiction is. What do they know about parliament, parliamentary democracy and what parliament can do? No, let's teach them that. Let us all now agree together and make a decision that reads: “It is going beyond the law on investigation committees,” and then we are calm. Dear colleagues, the law provides for the powers of the investigating committee. The law provides for an investigation committee to determine the facts. You can agree on that, or you can claim that we do not need an investigative committee. But to question the investigative commission and the law is now really out of line.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u56040	The next replica is the esteemed representative Branko Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u56041	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, fellow coat of arms, I'd like to do it again like this. So in Sisak-Moslavina County, about 9,000 facilities were renovated after the renovation. In the earthquake, 96 were killed, and 96 were left with a yellow or red sticker. And you... No, yellow or red. [[You can't hear it.]] We have written, so yellow or red sticker, but these objects, none of these objects were built by reconstruction, but rescheduled. You know what "recovery" means? Something that's been repaired. So the question of how did the citizens themselves do it when they were building their own time. And right at the insistence and our prime minister and all that was said earlier, the M.O.P. has requested documentation and documents have been delivered for 94 facilities. So all the necessary documentation is already in the MUP and they have exact lists of who was monitoring, who was the designer, who was the expert surveillance, who was the performer, and they all, all the names of those performers The projectors and the company are publicly published. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Then why the investigation committees?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u56042	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u56043	Resume who's to blame? The citizens are guilty. Ask HDZ who's to blame for anything, they're citizens. The citizens are guilty, they've torn down their own houses. They couldn't wait for the earthquake to come and leave them with no roof over their heads. Come on, please! This is offensive, this is below all levels. And you know what else is below every level? That the government has provided the HDZ representatives with an indication of this proposal for the establishment of an investigative commission, and not all other representatives and the public. What you're saying was quite simple and very easy to put into a document called a response to a proposal to set up an investigative commission, an indication. And then maybe some things we wouldn't talk about. But we can't get that data like you did. Another round of parliamentary democracy in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u56044	The next replica of the esteemed representative, Marijana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u56045	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A colleague of the coat of arms, surely, that everyone strives to investigate and punish himself if there have been criminal acts in the reconstruction process. I also don't believe that anyone is here, that like you said, the law that defines the investigative committees is abolished. But as you pointed out yourself, I believe that we can agree there, so this is not an object similar to others. Because if there's an art class going on, then someone's got to pay for it. I don't know how you pictured 15 parliamentary deputies who don't have professional competences actually studying these subjects and entering their scale and making decisions. How, then, would these witches be hired to do so alone, and who would pay for these witches? Is it not more acceptable that if the Rehabilitation Act allows us to do so within the state administration system? through the authorities, then so be it. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u56046	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u56047	The Law on Investigative Commissions of the Croatian Assembly has been established by a competent institution for the work of investigative committees such as the law of the State Attorney's Office, such as the law of the police section, such as the law-developed work of the inspectorate, so the law and the work of the Croatian Parliament in the section of which the investigation committees are established. And his power is given to him that which he may not do, and that which he should not do. And it's also the law of authority to hire witches. The provision is almost the same as in the Penal Procedure Act. And as when the State's Attorney's Office hires witches, these costs are predominant to the Republic of Croatia, so we recently had a problem with not paying the witches, because the ministry had not provided funds for that same provision working here. There's no difference.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u56048	The next replica is the respected representative Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u56049	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Grbin, it is good that you have clarified and explained all the moments why our initiative is legally correct and responded to what our colleague, Habiban, said. The second thing we've already said is that the aim of this investigation committee is to determine clear numbers that we don't have, and all the while here we're hearing that our colleagues are spinning numbers L96, L98 and we've actually discovered what you're here and just before in the replica and you've determined that our colleagues have data, and we don't have data. Why don't we have the information? Why is that hiding? 4.1. Prime Minister Plenkovic said that what I quoted earlier would require the institutions to do their job and clear up everything that clearly indicates that there were irregularities in the restoration of crime, etc. So 4.1. It's 8.7. So it's been six months, colleagues have numbers, we don't. Here's your comment, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u56050	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u56051	My colleagues have numbers. Croatian public, media, non-domestic MPs, and people still live in homes that are not safe, people still don't know how it came to be that houses that were built 20, 25 years ago fell like card towers. It's a Croatian reality. The aim of this investigation committee is also very clear when we proposed today when we explain this proposal in the Croatian Parliament. It's not the only way to find out who did it. The goal is to learn lessons from what happened. But it's also the goal of seeing if there's a system problem with other properties in the thorny areas and to address it in time before a new earthquake hits. Obviously that's not gonna happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u56052	There's an individual debate coming up. Dear representative Dalia Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u56053	Fellow MPs and MPs, today is a record high temperature day. We may not feel it in such a finely refrigerated assembly, but they certainly feel it on their skin those who are still in containers after the earthquake in Banja. The same people who have been frozen in the winter for days and months are washed under very bad sanitary conditions. I don't know if I can even say a sentence that I'm actually glad and that happiness is in the accident that most of them or many of them don't have television at all, so they don't follow and they can't follow this travesty, this burlesque. I don't know what you'd call a debate like this. Well, I can't scream, but what exactly is this Croatian Parliament doing today? They don't care how many opposition MPs on this agenda point. They don't care whether at some point Peja Grbin was confused whether this was a proposal to set up an investigative commission or an impelation. They are not even interested in what the objectives of this committee's research were in the quality of rebuilding houses, the quality and legality of regulations at the time, the way in which the contract was awarded or the involvement of former officials in criminal activities and whether these crimes affected the quality of construction that led to the destroyed, larger number of destroyed objects in these recent earthquakes. They care and care about when their houses will be restored now. And I'm concerned that I know how badly our institutions are organised, how under-supply they are, how slow and dysfunctional we can restore these houses right now, and I'm actually horrified by one thought, which is that in some 20 years, some of the so-called meetings of the Croatian Parliament will also discuss whether a new investigative commission for criminal refurbishment operations is to be set up or should be happening now. And why am I saying that this is all one burlesque and one travesty? Well, it's precisely because there's a proposal to set up an investigative committee at all. In a normal state, you would accept this proposal, but you wouldn't wait for the proposal to come. You'd start an investigative committee yourself because it's a matter of trust in state institutions. It's a matter of responsibility. It's a matter of honor and it's not researching whether there was a crime in post-war restoration throwing away the full recovery. Do you know what's wrong? It's a lie when the state lets anyone, even if it was a single object, of a single house, so that anyone was used inappropriately and went unpunished, and it's really one big sleaze. And we know you'll vote against. You know why. And let me just try to prove to you on a few examples why the Investigative Commission is still needed despite the possible work I say to the possible work of other institutions. Already some of the colleagues mentioned that January 4th and the prime minister had called, and USKOK also reported that they would be quick to investigate the issue of malversion in post-war reconstruction. As a lawyer, I was also aware of some legal problems. For example, I sent a letter to the State's Attorney's Office on 13 January, which was forwarded by the State's Attorney's Office to USKOK, to which I received the reply that my request was rejected. It refuses, among other things, because all day after I submitted my inquiry to the State's Attorney's Office, Andrej Plenkovic published a piece of documentation which, by the logic of things, should be public and thus all the story stopped. We don't really know what it is and how the DORH has been doing and the Jump ever since. And I will, in the final word, try to explain what all State's Attorney's Office and BUSKO refused to give in response to my question. And there are 25 seconds left, but I don't want Mr. Sanader's already visibly tense presidency to upset, so I'm going to wait for this time to expire because there's no time for reading such an extensive answer, and I don't want to risk the warnings and evictions as we've had the opportunity to watch countless times so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u56054	Replica Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u56055	The HDZ colleagues so subtlely told us that in fact we completely missed out on the subject, that debacle is this proposal and those who do not want to establish an investigative commission are helping us not to be ashamed anymore. Right? Think of others. You mean us not to be ashamed of ourselves any further? I think you're thinking of yourself yes, but good doesn't matter. And the other thesis they're saying is that MPs aren't those professions to be able to discuss this very well. I'm... short research. [[You don't understand.]] The Minister of Construction in HDZ's Government 2016 was Mr Kuščević's lawyer. Then came Mr. Stromar the Economist and afterwards Mr. Horvat. He graduated from the Faculty of Electrical Engineering and Computing. We economists, lawyers and fairies in our opposition clubs have enough to fill 7 places to be professional. That's the only way to find it, and there's no problem. Here it doesn't have to, if no construction engineer was a minister, it doesn't have to be on the investigation committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u56056	Time. And who were you replicating? ... Okay. [[You can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u56057	Comrade Bauk, I fully understood your question and let me give you an equally reasoned answer. There are plenty of families that our state attorneys and other bodies work independently and without any political pressures, and then the results are just such that all the reconnaissances and all the research were conducted urgently, spotlessly, the public was informed of them as soon as possible, and the court proceedings were conducted at that rate and at that speed that the dead race was actually going to determine whether someone's criminal responsibility would be determined sooner or all the houses in Banija, which in Zagreb would be restored to the end and how it should be done. That is exactly the responsibility of the Croatian Parliament. So, of course this was ironic, I don't really have a sense of humor, that's a fact. But the only investigative committee can try to give the public the answers to the questions, those answers they need right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u56058	The next replica of the esteemed representative, Marijana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u56059	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Representative Oreshković, you said that you were concerned about the subject of suspicion that the reconstruction in Banovina took place past the law in some segments to file a submission to the State Attorney's Office and USKOK, that you had received an answer, but that you did not have time to present it to us, so I would like to hear in fact what the content of this response is and whether they gave you any concrete figures in that response that we had here heard that of 9000 renewed objects, 96 were now lost in earthquakes and that this should be explored in detail.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u56060	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u56061	Thank you, counsel Petyr. So, I'm going to read the State's Attorney's statement in the closing statement right after my colleague Katarina Peović, and I think that one part of what the USO stated in that document is the best argument that confirms why we need this investigative commission in the first place. It's because there's been a discrepancy in numbers, those initial numbers on the number of destroyed buildings in Bania, down to 96. So all 96 houses that allegedly need to be torn down because they have a yellow or red mark. We can't even agree on that, and in particular we can't agree on this when we compare this information with the data submitted and the possible solutions and procedures that will be renewed. They just don't talk to each other. And I think politics is the reason behind it all.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u56062	Following is the final debate between the HSS and RFA MP Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u56063	Good afternoon, everyone. Beyond these discussions and the bickering of any form of commission, the DORH, any meaning structure you determine, here we will support it only if it goes in favour of those most vulnerable, so that social majority. However, the issue of this Commission of Investigation to identify possible irregularities in postwar reconstruction of houses, apartments, and public buildings is a much wider issue than the restoration of the houses themselves. It was best seen in the May Fields just three kilometers away from the centre of Gline where it could be seen that the tragedy and the loss of five lives are not only tied to the earthquake but rather to the socioeconomic conditions in which most people in the area live, so that the investigative issue should be extended to the neglect of the end that has lasted for a decade. When the earthquake began, many began to talk about Sisak, Petrinj, Clay. Just a few months before that earthquake, I was talking about the workers of the Sisak Refinery. Most of them were yawning. In the Maya plains, it was clear that these houses were not only destroyed because of the earthquake but also because they were badly built. So there was an additional problem there if you remember that people didn't want to leave their houses no matter what was very dangerous for days there because of the animals they held, that means the whole end was devastated, deindustrated and poor. So when the media said that people were killed, that many were injured, that people had lost their homes because of the earthquake, it wasn't really true. People were really killed, injured without a roof over their heads not only because of an earthquake but also because of poverty. Such an investigative commission would be really extensive and we can't possibly run it, but the investigative commission should be a real commission that's been investigating this country for the last 30 years. So that's even worse than what we've been discussing here. So it's not just a matter of neglect about the restoration, it's also the destruction of the end. The earthquake would be even more tolerated if the end were richer, but while hundreds of people were out of work in the Sisak Refinery, one of the politicians has rarely reacted. Not one word condemned the last wave of poverty in those parts. The workers of the Sisak Refinery had been sending appeals for days and praying for someone to stand by them, including those representatives who had been elected from that region, but there was no answer. Those who call and react without calculating how bad it will be in the election are going to go to the polls, but they may be telling the truth. Ćoric told lies about the large severance of workers, apparently favored the MOL Corporation without any interest in Sisak and part of the opposition policy was staring at the story of jobs and workers who would be out of work. But then the voices began to gather, and then the earthquake came. If people hadn't lost their jobs, it would have been easier for people there today if the Refinery had been held. Let's remember a young man in the center of Petrinja who yelled at the president of the state and the Prime Minister that no one had in the last 30 years put a nail in that area, and suddenly after the earthquake, everyone remembered one of the most underdeveloped parts. Therefore, Bania's areas in which the state invested very little by relying primarily on private capital where it still does not occur to dislocate and go to an area that is infrastructureally and in all other ways abandoned. It would also take me about a dozen minutes to list the industrial entities that are closed there as it says for more you see the website, the facebook site of the Workers' Front. You have a full list of these industrial entities from the Gavrilovic food industry that employs about 5600 workers plus 6000 co-operatives, and is privatized since '91, so 2019 only 462 employees. The charged charges ended up out of date, and then Željezara, Refinery, then Slavija trans, an auto-transport company, and the Finel factory furnered and furniture employed 1023 workers. So then Ciglana Petrinja, then Glynn's cotton arm, hired 400 people. It doesn't exist today. So the spare parts and accessories factory Clay hired 160 workers, so Pliva labor unit Clay, and the DIP Clay sawmill, so the business plants The future of Clay hired 240 workers today do not exist etc. etc. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u56064	The next final debate on behalf of the CENTAR and GLAS Club is a respected representative of Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u56065	Thank you. I'll continue where I left off. So here's what I've actually been asking for from the obvious and the clarifications from the BOOK and the DORH. Therefore, the indication of possible criminal offences, i.e. for the purposes of the conduct of which possible criminal offences are in fact activated by public resources, and it is necessary to carry out criminal research bearing in mind the possibility that, in view of the course of time since the renewal itself, statutes of initiation and enforcement of criminal proceedings have occurred. Furthermore, I asked for an indication of what the instructions were given and what order it was given for criminal research, and how this research was conducted, as the information published then in the media was in the '95 period. By 2010, the state refurbished about 150 000 buildings and in the area destroyed in earthquakes in Bania, no database was established on destroyed buildings, nor did the competent state authorities determine the situation, volume and severity of the damage caused by the earthquakes themselves. So, I'm talking about January, about those first weeks after the earthquake itself. Furthermore, I asked how the full and comprehensive determination of material truth will be ensured in view of the fact that, during the period during which reconstruction was carried out in the area that was affected by the earthquakes, the main engineer for reconstruction in the then Ministry of Public Works, Reconstruction and Construction, the former mayor of Sisak-Moslavina County, was acting in the area of reconstruction, and that in January immediately after the earthquake, he had an influence on the way in which the situation was identified on the ground as well as on the course of the recovery of the new damage. In other words, it has the potential to influence the very evidence that the criminals sent to the field should at all determine. I will just point out that the BUSKOK has only 33 judicial officers in charge of investigating all criminal offences from the authority of that body. In that request, I also stated that I understand that the reconnaissances of crimes and criminal research of a particular crime are actually covered by the concept of a procedure that is not public. However, I pointed out that the public has the right to know in what way the competent state authorities, and so the law enforcement authorities carry out their duties. The scope of the earthquake damage to the affected area at that time was neither listed nor known nor determined by any public authority and this in itself opened up the possibility of a selective approach to criminal research as well as the instrumentisation of competent institutions and the law enforcement authorities for political purposes. I am saying this because of the coincidence of the manifestation of Andrej Plenkovic to perform the reconnaissances and that it will be carried out and almost spotless ad hoc reactions to the USKOK itself whose results have not been seen until today. Of course, on such a request, the BIAKOK replied that what I am looking for is not really information within the meaning of the Law on the right to access information which is true, because the information is considered only what is already finished information about some materialized form, and the body of the public authority has no duty and has no obligation to give me any explanation of the way it works. They also said that at the stage of the reconnaissance, there is some kind of secrecy of conduct and that this is why I cannot give more detailed answers which is also true. And, of course, they called for a publicly published list that I said ended up in public all day after I asked one of the competent authorities. And now I ask you all together, keeping this in mind how our citizens could necessarily come up with the necessary answers that would restore at least the minimum trust in this country, in these institutions that are currently run by the same political party that was in power and at the time of the renewal. Unless at least the political will is shown to determine what companies were associated with officials at the time, who were stinging on the material, on the armature, and did this result in damage greater than the one they would have suffered that such malversion was not if it wasn't an investigative commission? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u56066	The next final debate is on behalf of the Green-left bloc advocates' club. Honorable representative Ursha Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u56067	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So the Green-Left bloc club we are still standing on the need to establish a Committee on possible irregularities in post-war reconstruction on the territory of the Republic of Croatia. We're sure it's the Commission's additional motive and assistance in an investigation that you know is being led, and you have data. We think and we're convinced that there can be no harm from the Investigative Commission, only benefits. And if this investigation is being conducted that you know of, then there are probably reasons and indications why this investigation was launched. And now that menu comes up to one I'm starting to get out of the elemental logic. I don't understand why the parliamentary majority is headed by HDZ so against that commission it's interesting. Why is there such a huge danger from this commission? What can this commission actually reveal? Why do you fight so hard that this commission is gone? These are questions that logically impose themselves. You say he'll throw himself away, Mr. Bacic says he'll get laid on a great postwar reconstruction. I think that this sleaze is about to be thrown out by avoiding this commission because avoiding the establishment of such a commission is inescapably creating doubt that there is indeed something there that it wants to hide, which it wants to keep quiet, which it wants to put under the carpet. And so the only thing I can conclude is that you're the one who's setting aside the post-war reconstruction. You open your doubts by rejecting the commission at the very least. What is a fact, the fact is that any clearing up cloudy, suspicious situations both today and in the past are working to raise awareness of the need for fair and legal work in the Republic of Croatia, which is not always the case, I suppose you will agree. And it is also a fact that those who oppose such initiatives come at least, I will repeat, in doubt, that they are hiding something. From this hiding, from this endeavor to make very serious indications, and after this debate, I am absolutely certain that the extremely serious indications were that there were also criminal acts, and corrupt actions and all the bad acts possible were present in that postwar restoration. So you're preventing such a commission and you're certainly under suspicion that you're responsible together for it. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, not you personally, the parliamentary deputies that you're sitting in right now, but your party obviously has some issues with that. Of this avoidance and opposition to the establishment of the Investigation Commission, the public and citizens of this Croatia will, of course, have damages, and for that, you are responsible, so the majority of them headed by the HDZ are responsible and should say it loudly and clearly. You do not allow the Council of the Republic of Croatia to legally and legitimately establish a commission that would shed light on murky and illegal actions and situations in post-war renewal. You don't allow it, and you, as usual, are standing on the sad side of which we certainly won't want to be.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u56068	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u56069	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u56070	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u56071	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mrs. Raukar Gamulin, I assume you know that we live in a legal state where there is a trio of power. Your suspicions which I believe are a cause for criminal, criminal, criminal acts that occurred during the renovation, please submit to whoever is in charge of this country, which is the State's Attorney's office, the BOOK or the law enforcement bodies. And if, and if you had something concrete, you could have led us here today in the ruling party to convince us that you were right. Here it is incorrect and it is not right for you to speak in this way in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u56072	Time. ... This was a replica, not a violation of the Rules of Procedure. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You're getting a warning. The final debate of the HDZ Representatives Club follows. Honorable representative Nikola Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u56073	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. Well, here's our chance today. I'd say more than I've ever seen, not just an idea, but above all, the objectlessness of this request, the request for an investigative commission that the proposer didn't even believe in. He hasn't believed in him since the debate began. First of the matter itself which he did not say exactly, but later and throughout the debate where we could see that opposition representatives or MPs who were signatories of this proposal had to correct each other about key things or what they were legalized objects and what they weren't. So we heard from a fellow SDP that 80% of the facilities in the Sisak-Moslavina County were not legalized, that it would not be able to be refurbished now that Ms. Collateral Anka Dark Taritash would have to correct them since she still had some knowledge in that matter, so she corrected them that it was by law on renewal when and after the war reconstruction of all the objects that were subject to the Law were automatically and legalized. After that we could hear a series of untruths about the whole matter from that everything that was done was done in a catastrophic way, so when time now showed that the whole initiative was only the key to the moment of submission to get points for local elections. So when everyone saw today that the data that comes from the profession, that comes from the competent authorities and that, above all, dear colleagues and fellow MPs are public nothing we don't have what you don't have, we didn't get anything from the Government of the Republic of Croatia. We're just getting ready. So there are institutions doing their job. One of them is the Croatian Center for Earthquake Engineering, Professor Ratalić, his colleagues, whom we have all met very well every day in the Banovina area, who reported daily in all the media as many days as the objects were examined, and which stickers they received. We have a headquarters that's been made to report publicly at every session of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Still thank God the meetings of the Government of the Republic are public and anyone who wishes can look. It is from this data publicly available today that 94.87% of the objects examined, or 36 thousand 888, of the reported 38 thousand 881 yellow or red label received 13,000 257. If we know that the organized reconstruction by the Republic of Croatia in the area of Sisak-Moslavina County was 8000 880 objects and that 96 of them received an orange or red sticker, and that 96 of them for 9 were made that a replacement facility would be offered, or 0.01%, then we see that exactly what the engineers of the building are, and people who behave these positions in the territory of the Republic of Croatia waist rather than politics brought out what is now shown and proven, and that it is precisely because of the organized restoration of the Republic of Croatia that saved lives. Thanks to the restoration of the Republic of Croatia, the damage is as it is, rather than much larger. If we take the damage ratios in other counties, including a Zagreb earthquake that is 12 times weaker than this and when we see what the damage to individual houses is, then we get another proof of the quality of the renovation again. We must also witness that time 95 million 200 thousand exiles, the return, the 17 billion kuna needed to invest, and at all times when laws were passed on much more important things, we can now see that this restoration was quality. On the other hand, it is the Croatian Democratic Community that has requested and requests that every single case of poor renewal, manipulation, possible corruption be investigated and we will always be for it, not for politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u56074	Following is the final debate on behalf of the applicant. Honorable representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u56075	It is interesting that before me, Mazhar, a colleague who had almost had the opportunity to participate in this new restoration, said that by some miracle there would be nothing possible because of certain certificates issued to certain entrepreneurs who were 14, 15, 16, 17 years old as engineers involved in them, which is why criminal proceedings are now being conducted. But okay, let's let it go now. It's just an accident about the renovation. Dear colleagues and colleagues, if we do not want investigating committees to be established in the Croatian Parliament, then let us abolish the law. As long as the Law is in force, the Croatian Parliament has the right to make a decision on the establishment of the Research Commission, and part of the MPs, in accordance with the provisions of the Law and Rules of Procedure, have the right to propose this. The Croatian Parliament is one of the institutions of this country that has also received investigative commissions in its jurisdiction. If you do not want to set up an investigative committee, do not hide behind some of the lattices that ultimately do not hold water like those of Hubian's colleagues. Come and say no. We don't want a point. We won't, we won't, we don't want the facts revealed. Be honest, be honest, be your own in the end line, say no, and do not hide behind the procedure and behind the strength of the numbers of the majority you have. This Commission of Investigation should be established primarily with three objectives. To determine exactly what happened during the renovation, to ensure that those properties that are badly recovered and to learn from this process lessons that we will not apply, or that we will ensure that they are avoided in the restoration that lies ahead. It's a big renovation. About the amount of money probably even greater than that after war in absolute amounts, in relatively probably not because the value has changed in the meantime. But in absolute numbers, for sure. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I have no idea how to say that after the war, everything was bad. No one wants to say that. However, some of the things that were done at the time would be good for us to implement now. We have now transferred everything to citizens whose properties were damaged, and during the postwar reconstruction the role of the state was much greater. The state took on a much bigger burden, and so some things went faster. Now we have transferred a whole series of bureaucratic and administrative procedures to people who have been damaged, whose property has been injured in the earthquake. They may learn lessons from this process and apply some of them in practice. But you don't want to. Like you don't want to find out who the guilty are. And what's worse for me than what you don't want to be in those areas where the reconstruction was conducted after the war, which are seismically active, which are dangerously controlled, audited, and ensure that we don't watch those scenes that we saw when a colleague came to one house and took down concrete with her hand, with her hand. Like this on a building that was renovated and that was supposed to be all right. We have two options. One option is to vote for the establishment of an investigative commission, to reveal the truth, and to avoid the mistakes we have encountered in the past, and another option is to be against. Each of us will vote on this next week when we vote which of these two options will be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u56076	We've exhausted the debate with this. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. The next item of the agenda is - Proposal for a Decision establishing a Committee for the Promotion of the Rights of the Child Carrier: The Committee on Family, Youth and Sports is a Proposer of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports on the basis of Articles 44, 87 and 161. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, and Article 6. The law of reward for promoting the rights of a child. Do the proposing representatives want an additional explanation? Honored representative Vesna Vucilović, president of the Committee. Vesna Bedekovic, I apologize.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u56079	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The Law on the Prize for the Promotion of the Rights of the Child requires that the Republic of Croatia award a prize for promoting the rights of the child for exceptional achievements in the protection of the welfare of children's rights and interests, and is awarded as a reward for life's work, i.e. as an annual reward. And every year one prize can be awarded for life's work and up to three annual awards, and it is awarded in the form of special recognition and in money. The prize is awarded every year for 20. On the day of adoption of the Convention on the Rights of the Child at the General Assembly of the United Nations meeting. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law stipulates that the award is awarded by the Committee for the Promotion of the Rights of the Child appointed by the Croatian Parliament on a time of 2 years. The Committee consists of 5 persons, well-known public employees who deal with issues related to children's rights, and they are proposed to the Croatian Assembly by the parent body, i.e. the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. The term of office of the previous members of the Committee expires on 18 October of this year, and the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports at its 11th session held on 18 June of this year considered the arrival of the Committee's membership bid and was found to have reached a total of 7 candidates, and that is to say, Prof. Dr. Buljan Flander, Ante Čajkusic, Mirela Dežman, Katje Jajaš, Mladen Kožić, Elvis Kralj and Maja Pavlovic. And how is a total of 5 members appointed to the Reward Committee on 11. The Committee on Family, Youth and Sports has held a secret vote and a proposal for the composition of the Committee has been set out as set out in the proposal for a decision. So, the Committee proposes that the Committee be appointed Professor Dr. Gordana Buljan Flander, Elvis Kralj, Katja Jajaš, Ante Čajkusic and Maja Pavlovic. And therefore, respected colleagues and colleagues, please support this decision and a proposal of the Committee for the Prize for the Promotion of the Rights of the Child as proposed by the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u56080	We have a replica. Honorable representative Mariana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u56081	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleague Bedekovic. I'd like to hear from the experience that we have so far given the award of how much she's actually raised awareness of the importance of respecting the child's rights. Do you have any feedback and whether, through the work of the previous committees, through this communication, some problems have arisen from which concrete activities or even legislative initiatives have arisen?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u56082	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u56083	Thank you very much, dear esteemed colleagues on this replica. As I said, therefore, it is also signifiable that the prize itself is awarded, so every year on November 20th, on the day of the adoption of the Convention on the Rights of the Child at the General Assembly of the United Nations, and of course, this prize granted in different forms, either as an annual reward, or as a reward for life's work in recent years has made it very clear, therefore the need and necessity to take care of the protection of the welfare of children's rights and interests. And thus, through, therefore, the award of this award in the form of, on an annual basis, every year, indeed, a series of applications are chosen by those candidates who have indeed earned their works and their activities the same as the prize for life's work which says that Croatian society is slowly, therefore in my court not enough yet. It still needs to be intensified, but it is heading right towards raising awareness of the need to protect the rights of children's interests. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u56084	I'm opening a debate. The first is the HDZ Representatives' Club, respected representative Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u56085	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Here is a decision on the establishment of the Committee for the Promotion of the Rights of the Child, which was presented on behalf of the proposing colleague Bedekovic. Namely, the Law on the Prize for the Promotion of the Rights of the Child entered into force in 2005 with the aim of giving special awards to the persons they have, who contributed to the development of child protection in the protection and welfare of the child, his rights and interests and these awards are given once a year to 20.11. on the day on which the UN General Assembly adopted in 1989, or confirmed the Convention on the Rights of the Child, and two years later, so in '91. In the year, the Republic of Croatia confirmed the convention. In addition to this international document, many regulations and laws aim to promote child rights, to protect children, to create a safe society in which children will grow up, to become mature persons with the goal of having a particularly happy childhood in which they will be able to have stable and healthy growth and development. Of course it's even giving this award has a special significance. The public raises the visibility of those who in their personal, professional and political life, in their careers especially advocate the welfare of children and these rewards are very often directed to those people who have been doing this kind of quiet, self-secret work for years and are very often representatives or members of individual associations, the Society Our children, the Red Cross, foster parents, adoptors, aunts in kindergarten. Thus, all those who in one self - centered way care and care for our children first and foremost show them love and a warm environment in which children need to grow up. Of course, these awards are evaluated by experts, and for this very reason, the candidates for the award are evaluated by experts, and therefore the parent board and proposed to the Croatian Parliament that members of the board be appointed in order as the proposing said. These are people in public life with a profession very close to the care of children. Along with Professor Gordana Buljan Flander, who is known as a psychologist, a science doctor who has significant achievements precisely on the protection of children who have been abused, children who are victims of violence. And the board decided on more members. Elvis King is one young boy, a man who has devoted his entire professional and social work to protecting children of the minority population, children of Roma. Katja Jajaš and Ante Čorkušić, who are related to the Centre for Rehabilitation, i.e. to the Centre for the Education and Education of Children and Youth, therefore to the very population that needs special care, but with special expertise and special attention and love. And dr. Maja Pavlovic, a pediatrician working on a children's hematological oncology polyclinic, a scientist who, along with this really difficult job, provides full love and protection to these children. This committee will, of course, hold its meetings when the Ministry of Labour, the pension system, family and social policy call a tender. The competition will be registered, or apparently by other applicants, to propose individuals they consider worthy of such a reward. The Committee will work in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, will also adopt it by the competent ministry and will present proposals at its sittings, as has been said and it is in accordance with the law to award one prize for life, three individual annual awards which may be in the form and recognition or financial compensation. However, it has primarily one symbolic thanks to these people for their well-being they provide with children, but also as an incentive for everyone else to appear and run, but also for the fact that the Republic of Croatia is through the Parliament, but also for the working body that will work in the jurisdiction of the Ministry knows how to recognise and value all those who are particularly responsible for promoting the rights of the child. Very often in this home we talked about how threatened our children’s rights are, how well we are, however, in the fact that for our children for their protection, for protection against the threat of life, for protection against violence, and for all these other disasters that children are exposed to today have not fully completed that task. Therefore, this Committee's work and the award of these awards will also go towards achieving this goal, full protection and promotion of the welfare of children. The Croatian Democratic Community club will certainly support this proposal and this committee wants good and successful work.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u56086	Next is the debate on behalf of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club. Honorable representative Ursha Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u56087	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, of course, I am firmly convinced that we all in this assembly want to improve the rights of children, we want to improve the conditions in which our children live, we want that there are no poor children, there are no children in troubled families, we want children to have a normal education, we want them all to believe that we all want to. I hope so, too, that we'll agree that we haven't done everything we could on that trip and that there's still a lot of work to be done. One of the things that can, of course, promote children's rights and bring into focus here I would dare say one of the most important topics in Croatian society is certainly a reward for promoting the rights of the child. Unfortunately, this year, the Green-Left bloc Club, I am already tired, will vote against the appointment of members of the Committee for the award and award on the one hand because some members do not have experience in promoting the rights of the child, and on the other hand we are particularly concerned by one elected member is known for his activities in limiting women's rights to health and reproductive rights and we believe that this Committee is compromised and unfortunately we cannot support those appointments. We hope that this committee will have a more representative team in the next meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u56088	Next is the debate on behalf of the Centre and Voice Representatives Club. Honorable representative Marijana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u56089	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, so here I am on the trail of the presentation of my colleague Ursha Raukar, also speaking about the members of this committee. So first of all, we absolutely support the idea of this award, we support the idea of promoting the rights of the child, promoting and rewarding people who truly believe in the rights of the child, and promoting their rights and acting in every way possible to make the living conditions of children in our beautiful repairs. As we therefore vote here on the proposal united therefore, we do not vote on a single member of this Committee but on the proposal he puts before us as a whole, we will also be against this precisely because one of the proposed members of this Committee is therefore in his résumé when you look at his résumé here I will show it to Mr Ante Čaljaksic so you do not see from his resume how he has acted in his career and promoted the rights of the child. So, he is a member of the organization even the first host of the local and president of the National Prayer Initiative, president of the Association of Croatia for Life, the organizer of whether and also the "Walk for Life" which we all know as a highly specialized association that organizes various activities that actually go against women's rights. I'd say they're going against a woman's life. In some ways, the association promotes the endangerment of a woman’s life even though it is called the Walk for Life, which is actually a walk against a woman’s life and we do not see how it has anything to do with promoting the right of a child. The President is therefore the National Prayer Initiative "40 Days for Life" which organizes if here our citizens do not know how to organise national prayer initiatives 40 days for a life that gathers and protestes in front of the entrances of medical institutions. Therefore, these protests and gatherings are directed at women who come to these institutions to seek counsel and help with assisted fertilisation or to stop pregnancy. These gatherings are even forbidden by our law, Article 11. Public gathering law. So, this article was prescribed as not allowed for a peaceful gathering, nor public protests near hospitals, and here they are somehow tolerated and organised, and I say they actually act against women's rights to choice and against women's rights to health. So here is why we will not support this proposal, and we do not think it goes in favour of the child's rights and the child's improvement in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u56090	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u56091	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, as the Committee president has said, the proposal for a committee was based on a secret vote on candidates from 7 candidates who were selected 5 and it is clear that without the votes of most Committee members and, as a rule, without the votes of members of the parliamentary majority board, because they make up most of them, no one could actually be proposed. So, in fact, when such a proposal comes to the vote, it is more methodically correct to vote on each candidate individually than on the proposal as a whole. Because as such, he is not a total proposal, but only a sum of the votes of individual members of the Committee. Then the election of the entire Obor at the plenary session should also be the sum of the vote of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. And, of course, no one could be elected without votes from the parliamentary majority. In that sense, it is not just a message that passed on the Committee's proposal, it is a message that has not passed. And among those, which we obtained in the materials among those who did not pass on the Committee is, for example, Mr Mladen Kožić known from the case that he succeeded in obtaining the right to foster care at the Constitutional Court, and after that he was exposed in my opinion by the Ministry of the Family, Labour and all that you put in that Ministry when they did not want to implement the ruling of the Administrative Court. It's also a message. It's not just the message that passed, it's the message and who didn't pass. The candidates who are proposed certainly have candidates who deserve to be on the board with their work so far, as there are candidates that we would not have had the opportunity to choose would not have agreed to be proposed in any combination. In this regard, we will until the vote assess whether the positive characteristics in the résumés of those candidates who are acceptable to us are stronger than the negative characteristics in the résumés of candidates who are not acceptable to us, as we will further assess the fact that among those who have not just proposed there is someone who, in addition to the will of the parliamentary majority, has managed to vote for their rights in the courts to get the government or state as you wish twice. And then, instead of the parliamentary majority giving a symbolic apology for shakaning, he still can't pass as one of the five candidates for a member of the Committee. From what I've said, it seems to me that he will overcome this negative part, but by the time we vote, we'll decide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u56092	The following are individual debates. The first is a respected representative of Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u56093	Fellow MPs and MPs, so I must say that first of all quality performs any public functions depends on the quality of the candidates themselves. As an ordinary citizen, and then only as a politician do I cheer for all public functions to be reported as many truly quality people as possible so that what we together as a society should produce is simply better. On the one hand, however, how much I am rooting for the prominent and prominent professionals from various professions to report to the public calls and competitions carried out by the authorities, and so lately, the Croatian Parliament has to admit that more and more shame comes to me when a person in public tender is likely to get through our usual political and ideological mud at some point. And somehow it seems to me that this unfortunate fate has failed or we won't be able to escape now. I'm going to pick up where Mr. Bauk left off. The fact is, we vote together on this proposal. Although among the candidates themselves there are those for whom I would very, very gladly vote, and also those I simply cannot support. And since I can only vote yes or no, unfortunately I will be forced to vote against. Here I am, this way and publicly apologize to Mrs. Gordani Buljan Flander and Mrs. Maja Pavlovic. Somewhere else I don't know that I can apologize to. But most of all, I apologize to Croatian citizens, and especially to children so much that what we have repeatedly shown is that we are unable to develop a system of objective criteria and, based on metricocracy, to choose candidates who really correspond to the purpose and roles of the places to which they are assigned. When we talk about who should receive the prize for life's work or the annual prize for promoting the right of children or children, it should first and foremost be those persons who recognize that this country treats children as a population generally as a wicked stepmother, whether it is a gifted child who is hardly recognized, whether it is a child with special needs regardless of what this special need comes from, whether it is a child without adequate parental care or a child's unfavourable social situation. So any person who recognizes any of these children's needs and struggles for them could fall under the scope and jurisdiction of this body, which grants such rewards, and then we will re-engage in the personal attitudes of this particular political and ideological body that decides on such prizes. And when my colleague Bauk mentioned who was not in this commission and when we compare it to a person like Ante Caljaksic who has literally the diametric opposite of the world view, I am really wondering if our political and ideological reluctances will again overshadow the consideration of the merits of one of the candidates and the persons who needed or could or deserved this award. And I'm afraid, therefore, by the very fact that while HDZ is in power, we actually have a small number of people who are even applying to any public calls, and then the fact that there's one really bad selection between the candidates who have arrived and the bad proposals that refer to the vote at the plenary sessions. The final message we send to citizens, and especially to children, is that the injustice and inequality that we now see in society, which first and foremost stems from this habit of political protectionism that will always take precedence over the quality of a concrete candidate, will not be eradicated for a long time. And since that's the case, that kind of minimal processive, procedural step that we could make is that if we do anything else to separate that vote for each of the proposed candidates. My personal shame as MPs would certainly be smaller then, and given that the amendments to the Rules of Procedure are ongoing, here is a concrete proposal that could be implemented very quickly.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u56094	The replica of the esteemed Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u56095	Let's go from the end. There is a real danger that maybe a single vote for each of the candidates would ultimately give a worse result from our point of view than if we passed the proposal that is now proposed. So the fundamental question is, in fact, the candidate you mentioned about what it stands for actually has a diametrically opposite attitude from HDZ and their coalition partners from the liberal parties. In this case, he would actually be a representative of the right side of the opposition. I would also like to, therefore, that perhaps the proposer in the closing statement explains whether the gentleman who has been proposed and we are discussing the proposal of the majority or is the same proposal of the opposition, and then we will know that he wants to include a broad spectrum of that, that this body really represents the entire Assembly, and then one of the five members can be someone who has opinions on this subject as one of the five representatives in the Croatian Parliament. That's my attitude. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u56096	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u56097	Well, my colleague Bauk understands your mathematical position, but there is nothing I can understand about that kind of political thinking that I'm just not ready for yet. We're here talking about a committee that decides on rewards for promoting the rights of a child. Is there any more benign committee than that? And can we at least in such a matter ignore these trade agreements between the political parties of coalition partners' coalition parties and can we at least in one single issue concerning children and those generations that I hope will not be like us whether we can put the quality of individual candidates and the results of their previous work in the particular field of fighting for the promotion of the rights and interest of the child between our truly trivial political considerations.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u56098	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ante Deur.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u56099	Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor. Surely it may bother you or not suit you, but you must respect the values of man, the values of people who advocate something that is different from you. It's a walk to life, it's a prayer in front of our hospitals. Maybe they've been praying for you, too, I believe it's not off. Well, at least make it worth it. I believe that some prayer was necessary for you personally too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u56100	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u56101	Well, speaking of which, it took a lot of prayer to get me into the world. My parents waited 14 years for this happy event. But I can also thank my children not only with prayers but also with medicine and medical help. And since you mentioned that it is necessary to respect those who may not fully share my consideration, I accept that, but so do I. And from how you excluded one of the candidates who made a big, big step that allows those kids who are not so lucky to live in a family home, warmth, love to give it to them and make it possible and you treated it as a lower step and denied it exactly what you've given me right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u56102	Now we've exhausted the debate. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. The last item of the agenda tonight is - Proposal for a decision on the selection of the deputy attorney general, the applicant is the Ombudsman on the basis of Article 12. The Law on the Ombudsman was conducted by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. Does the attorney general want to give an additional explanation? Tena Shimonović Einwalter.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u56105	Honored deputies and deputies, Article 12(1). The Law on the Advocate General provides that the Ombudsman has at least 3 deputies. The same article in the next paragraph provides that the Ombudsman proposes to the Croatian Assembly of Deputys, and within 30 days of the deadline for the application for a public call, and is elected by the Croatian Parliament in time of 8 years. The same article of this Act also prescribes conditions for a deputy and these are Croatian citizenship with residence in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, completed undergraduate and graduate university studies or integrated undergraduate and graduate university studies. At least eight years of work experience. The fact that a person is a prominent expert who enjoys the reputation of a person of high moral principles and a protector and promoter of human rights and freedom or the rule of law. To be a person who wasn't convicted of criminal acts. A criminal offence against which the proceedings are initiated under official duty and which is not a member of the political party. As for the procedure, a public call for the election of deputies has been published in the National Journal since 7 May of this year and on the web. a page of the institution, and additionally in two daily newspapers and on social networks to reach as many candidates as possible. The deadline for submission of applications expired on 24 May. On 9 and 10 June, I personally held talks with all candidates who submitted full applications and was sent after that on 16 June to the Croatian Assembly for the selection of the following three persons for the deputy occupiers. Otherwise their detailed résumés you had a chance to see. The proposed persons are: Diana Keson, a graduate lawyer with completed specialist study of European integration rights, a passed judicial exam and 21 years of work experience in the profession. Saša Rajić graduated in social educator, doctor of science with 32 years of work experience in the profession and Tatjana Vlasic graduated ethnologist with completed master's degree in the field of democracy and human rights with 15 years of work experience in the profession. Article 12(7) also applies. The Law on the Ombudsman provides that the deputy attorney general is elected in a way that ensures gender equality, which is also a condition that is satisfied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u56106	Thank you. We've got two clubs registered. It's the first Green-left bloc rep club. Honorable representative William Matula. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u56107	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ma'am, Mrs. Shimonović Einwalter's attorney general, here's a colleague and a colleague of mine's actually a pleasure, I won't be taking up much of your time. I'd say this point at the end but really sugar for the end is literally like that. As I hear it this morning, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system unanimously accepted the proposal of the Ombudsman. I can only say it really, you read the biography and experience, and everything they did, and how educated and what they did to Mrs. Dijan Kesonja, Mr. Saša Rajic and Tatjana Mrs. Tatjana Vlasic it is indeed a pleasure. And I can only say in the shortest possible time that everything that pops the attorney general in the vision and mission of his office is saying here's what we really want. And precisely with the ease to support this as opposed to the previous point because there is no doubt here that this way of choosing this kind of quality people continues to build us a reputation, a real authority and the broadest social support that the Attorney's Office has since before Mrs. Simonović Einwalter, from Mrs. Laura Vidovic and now through these three deputies. I think, just as the law provides for a minimum of three and that you chose really minimal three in this situation, it also says that it is very observable. Nothing, I'm just saying that I'd like other very fundamental institutions in our society to also have this reputation. I want to believe that the very reputation of your office will eventually encourage others to place such quality people in courts, and on HRTs this moment I think of other institutions and that then we will really have the pleasure and see important changes in society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u56108	The next debate is on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the respected representative Krunoslav Katičić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u56109	So here's the esteemed vice president, colleagues and colleagues here at the end of this day here's a proposal to elect three deputy attorney generals. As has already been suggested, three candidates who meet the conditions laid down in the Law on the Attorney General. It shall mean all the conditions and criteria as provided for in Article 12. Subject law. The proposal itself is proposed by the Ombudsman, who explained it in a very detailed way, and only the appointment is carried out by the Croatian Parliament and appointed for 8 years. Since Mrs. Simonović Einwalter's election was relatively concentrated on the same period. I believe that this is very logical and life-saving and appropriate to name and its deputies on the same deadline, so I welcome that it has been done within 30 days and that, in this way, the office of the Ombudsman will also be able to respect and comply with all the tasks and objectives provided for by law. I also think that only the work of the office will contribute to the development of Croatian society in this area which is very important. I remind myself of the task of protecting human rights and freedom as defined by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the law and international legal regulations for which this office is intended. Therefore, on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club, they can say that we will support this proposal and that when the conditions are met, they will vote for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u56110	We have an individual debate with the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u56111	Thank you. The esteemed attorneys, colleagues and colleagues are reluctant to be appointed as officials, who will then, after their term of office, become officials again. That doesn't mean I won't vote for the proposal, so I support the proposal, but I'd feel bad if you didn't. So, two of the three candidates are advisors now at the Attorney General's Office as an officer. They'll become officials when their term is up. Under the Law on the Rights of State Officials, I can return to the office of the Attorney General. Second, the third candidate is the prison hospital manager. Before that, he was with the Justice Department, so he was also an official. I'm not sure in November 2020, so that's why he was recently appointed hospital manager. I don't know if it's the principal post of special competition, but it's actually just an appointment if that's the case. Therefore, I must say that I do not like this practice in principle. I think that, but out of confidence in the work of the attorney general, trust or good opinion on the work of the last occupier and the fact that then officials from the Attorney General contributed somehow to this reserve because of the politicization of the service as I like to say. Therefore, with these reserves, I will personally support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-08-0.u56112	There are no more reports. We've exhausted the debate. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Tomorrow we will continue at 9.30 Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Volunteering, Second Reading, P.Z.E. No. 127. Session interrupted at 17.49 p.m.
