ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u27292	Thank you, Mr. President. The local elections should be held on the third Sunday of May. Local elections should be called by the government, until now each government has done so during April. Some of our opposition colleagues in some of their performances have raised the question of delaying local elections for epidemiological reasons and reasons, which is why they saw the government's inaction with local elections, primarily the intolerance of the announced law, which would limit the application of legally convicted persons. There is also some logic in this intolerance because it should be discussed and adopted in the Assembly, and it would certainly come into force after the decision to call local elections has been taken. Of course, HDZ immediately used it to attack those who mentioned it to fear choice, and they are not afraid of choice. We were also visited by a case of parliamentary elections when the public and the opposition also asked the question of the elections before summer, and HDZ officials, which I particularly remember the statement by the President of the Parliament accused us of making up or saying so. I want to make it clear that the SDP is opposed to delaying the local elections. We estimate that at this point, the epidemiological situation is not such that it would require this ultimate measure, but the SDP asks the government and the DIP to ensure the protection of life and health of primarily people who will work in electoral bodies, about 60 thousand if not more members of the election boards, 5 to 6 thousand members of election committees and so far unknown, but also a large number of candidates who should participate in them. Secondly, we ask that, in a different way than before, to regulate the collection of signatures for the mayors and mayors, because for the council lists, that is not necessary. In this situation, the current way of collecting signatures can be risky for both candidates and citizens who sign. Third, we propose that the number of days to vote be increased due to the reduction in voter's crowds, so to vote on Saturday and Sunday. We have something similar in the foreign parliamentary elections. We think that at this point these are sufficient measures to bring life and the health of citizens who will participate in the elections either as candidates, either as members of the electoral bodies, or as voters to put themselves at the least possible risk for their health, and we know that the consequence of the coronal infection can unfortunately and sometimes is death. The SDP is the health, life and freedom of our citizens in the first place, which is why we call on all those who decide and who have the opportunity to decide that these three things try to meet the local elections. Some countries have delayed local elections, some countries have acted this way to increase the number of days to vote. The epidemiological situation is like this and it's unpredictable, so we can't know what's going to happen in mid-May, but we can do what we can to make the consequences as little as possible. I propose to the government of the Republic of Croatia to stop further speculation, at the first next session to decide on the calling of local elections with a degree of effect when it assesses whether it is mid-fourth, whether it is the beginning of the 4th, so there are 30 to 60 days, so if you are not going to postpone the elections, call them Thursday, and if you are going to postpone them, at least say it now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u27348	We are going to the fifth debate, dear colleague Željko Sačić on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u27349	Dear President, secretary, respected colleagues and colleagues, Croatian public. On behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns Club, I present the horror of one desolation, one indemnity, one indemnity to the national, our public service of HRT which in these 5, 6 days has shown all its anti-Croatianness, all its anti-national and one indemnity to the victims of the Homeland War, one insubstantial disregard for the elemental principles and information to the public on the crucial topics and issues which this society is currently dealing with and at the same time showed this public television that we expect to protect Croatian national interests that we also have the opportunity to listen to "Sunday in 2" about how Tito is still a greater historical figure than Franjo Tudjman, and Franjo Tudžman has not created a good job in the country. Shameful, inadmissible and incomprehensible. It is the responsibility of a colleague and colleagues of all of you who, right now and have certain control over the Programme Council on HTV's Supervisory Board because we have had the opportunity to hear other private media, we also because of the negligence and irresponsibility of most previous years, the previous calls lost, we no longer have any effect as the public, as the Croatian public, not to say Croatian defenders, on certain televisions bought on the market by large Serbian capital, by Evening List, "24 Hours", "New TV", etc. etc., that we are not going now, all this together says that we patriots in this Croatian state have been abused, that we are at risk, that we cannot create one expected and normal resistance through our means of information, but we must resort to various means of Facebook, Youtube, and what I know to you is not all tricks, protests, in order to let the Croatian public know that there are other opinions. It's not normal for dear friends to be in a situation where we're discussing very important and fatal issues of, of, of, for this society about the civilian victims of the Homeland War that we don't have a show on HTV. It's understandable why we don't have it on "New TV", on "RTL", on "N1", on "The Morning List", on "The Evening List", but why don't we have it on HTV? So obviously because all of this is to be forgotten as soon as possible, we are not allowed to point out the critical and justifiable problems that this law carries, we are just as marked as extremists, as radicalists, as those who do not want co-existence, and the truth is quite different, we advocate for justice, for, as our great lawyer, General Gotovina, Luka Misetic, said, that in this way the politics of the SDSS which is not in favour of true co-existence, true reconciliation with Croatia, who is being attacked, who is occupied, to turn issues and topics from the key political deviations, and to remain in the area not guilty of their own guilt, or to remain guilty of harm, or to remain in the area of their own integrity. We Croatian sovereigns will not deal with this, we will do everything in our power to at least keep it in writing that we have been on the side of truth and justice.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u27471	Good morning, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, please take your seats. I thank the representatives of the media, as well as each time the first working day of the plenary session, the presentation of the position. We will leave today with the House Movement Representatives Club and dear colleague Ruzica Vukovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u27472	Dearly respected, the economy of the Republic of Croatia faces a number of problems that a whole number of economic indicators such as low GDP per capita, the number of unemployed, and the number of displaced people have witnessed. Citizens are dissatisfied with the current situation, resulting in a growing loss of confidence in the state and its institutions. Accordingly, I want to briefly analyse the impact of institutions on the development of the economy, especially the primary sector in Eastern Slavonia, which was once a driving force for economic development and a solid basis for developing activities from other sectors, but the situation has deteriorated significantly. In conditions in which mere survival has become the everyday life of a large number of citizens, when almost every day a large number of production facilities are shut down, and an increasing number of people leave the territory of the Republic of Croatia for a reason raises the question of how responsible institutions are. The main motive for their action should be to facilitate the everyday life of citizens, but also to provide a motivated business environment with adequate institutional support. The destruction of primary sector production has led Eastern Slavonia to extremely low levels according to a number of economic development indicators. Given that it is a geographical area which, apart from the economic one, must be dealt with and the war consequences of the role of the institutions are even more important. Croatia has emerged from the Homeland War as centralised, deeply politicised with authoritative authority and the same political, administrative and general social culture. The consequences of this are clearly visible today, long-term politicisation and the emphasis of authoritarian political values have led to the placing of democratic and legal values in another plan. In Croatia, the involvement of politics in the daily work of the institutions is considered almost normal, allowing quick progress to the obedient and the like. Such politicisation demotiates educated, professional and impartial officials for the effective performance of tasks. Inventing unnecessary jobs, frequent reorganisations, changing job systematization, applying political instead of professional criteria and similar measures have caused apathy and demotivity. Finally, according to all the above criteria, Eastern Slavonia is significantly lagging behind other parts of the Republic of Croatia, as well as the national average. Such a state of affairs is the result of systematic indifference, misunderstandings and insufficient support of all current authorities and regimes towards eastern Croatia, which, given all the burdens and difficulties that this support had to deal with, was of crucial importance. Insufficient support is particularly visible in the example of the OPGs that have recently acted as a pillar of the economic development of the primary sector of Eastern Slavonia. The OPGs are a link between the production of quality food, the preservation of rural space and life in the country. They are of key importance to economic growth and local development, especially in rural areas such as Eastern Slavonia. Economic motivation is complemented by social, cultural, traditional and ecological reasons that further enlarge the OPG Institute. For farmers carrying out their activities as part of small CAPs, agriculture is not only a business but a way of life. This is why they are closely linked to land, local territory and regional identity. In this way they come to life with nature and become guardians of tradition, and the place where they live and work are cherished and treated protectively. Several years of neglect towards small farmers and the lack of appropriate agrarian policy measures to create economically sustainable OPGs show that the institutions of the Republic of Croatia have not sufficiently recognised the potential of small OPGs. The whole of Croatia, especially Eastern Slavonia, needs a strong shift in institutional support only when institutions provide direct support to the small man as the bearer of the micro-level economy, and the economic development of the whole of Croatia will be revived. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u27647	We're going to the sixth debate, the HDZ Representatives Club, dear colleague Ivan Celjak, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u27648	President-in-Office HS, distinguished MPs and MPs. Yesterday was the anniversary of the Zagreb earthquake. In a tragic earthquake, one person lost his life, and 27 people were injured. Large material damage has been estimated at $86 billion. 28th and 29th. 12. Sisak-Moslavina, part of the Karlovac and Zagreb County, was plagued by a tragic and catastrophic earthquake. Unfortunately, 7 people have lost their lives, and later on, when removing dangerous parts of buildings in order to help the Petrinians and the Sishen, two volunteers have lost their lives. It's caused material damage worth $41.6 billion. The crisis followed by a petrin earthquake exceeds the institutional and human capacities of local self-government units and regional self-government. In the disaster affected area, countries have been present since the first moments after the earthquake. The 120m kuna of intervention funds was paid the second day after the earthquake on the accounts of cities, municipalities and counties. As a consequence of the earthquake, drills appeared, 109 of them per 360 hectares of land, 63 gliders per 8 hectares, 42 liquefiations per 900 hectares. The inscriptions have been damaged, and an 11.25 km of embankment has been recovered. HEP released the payment of electricity at 3 months 59,819 households. In addition to the 120 million kuna that the government immediately provided for the disaster, the affected area was still paid 51 million kunas across the Red Cross, 120 million kunas through the Ministry of Labour, the pension system, family and social policy, 19 million kunas for public works, 64 million kunas for the preservation of jobs, 11 million kunas of single aid suffered by the Croatian Defence Ministry, 10 million kunas provided by the Ministry of Agriculture, 10 million kunas secured by the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development for Micro Entrepreneurs. The government of the Republic of Croatia continues to provide financial resources for the reconstruction and revitalisation of Zagreb, Sisak-Moslavačka, Karlovačka, Zagreb and Krapinsko-Zagorje County. The government is currently taking action to ensure around €28.5 billion and EUR 3.8 billion respectively. The European funds include 684 million kuna from the EU Solidarity Fund for the Reconstruction of Zagreb, nearly 600m euros are planned from the Recovery and Resistance Mechanism, and 111m euros from the Operational Programme Competitiveness and Cohesion will be realised from the existing Multi-annual Financial Framework. In addition to those financial resources, the aim is to secure funding from the new EU Multi-annual Financial Framework, whose programming is under way and which will have a specific item to finance the renovation. A 184m-euro loan was signed with the World Bank, talks on an additional billion euros from the European Investment Bank, then 900m euros from the Council of Europe Development Bank and 300m euros from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The Republic of Croatia has requested 319.2m euros from the European Solidarity Fund for the recovery of earthquake damage in Banovina, it is talking to business banks to agree on solutions that will allow citizens to borrow credits with favourable interest rates for the purpose of financing renovations, primarily to finance the share of citizens of 20% of reconstruction costs, then to finance the difference in costs between construction and total renovation, and to finance the restoration of multi-state buildings, as well as state reconstruction of public buildings. The earthquakes were tragic and catastrophic, the damage is huge, but we who live and plan to stay with our families in Sisak, Petrinja, Glina, Croatia Kostaninica and other disasters affected by this difficult situation where we are currently seen as an opportunity for the right start. After the Homeland War, we had the opportunity to start a new beginning and did not take good advantage of it, now we have the opportunity to start a real start and together in the cooperation of the inhabitants living in the earthquake of the affected area, the unit of local and regional self-government and the Government of the Republic of Croatia which has the most important role we will restore the collapsed and damaged facilities, bring people back to their homes and ensure favourable conditions for life, work and economic development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u27715	2nd debate of the Club of Representatives of MOST esteemed colleague Nino Rasudić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u27716	My colleagues and colleagues, last Friday at "Dnevnik" HRT, was broadcast a miserable interview with the recently elected patriarch of the Serbian Orthodox Church, Porfirija Perić, in which the patriarch made heavy accusations against Blessed Alojzi Stepinc, for whom he did not give support, quote: I had in my hands, and now I have letters sent by Pia XII by Stepinac. from which you can really find places that are deeply problematic says Porphyria. What places are problematic? The postulater of the cage for the canonization of the Blessed Aloysi Stepinca Mons. Juraj Baljeca, the team, says, quotes: About the contents of all letters by the archbishop of Stepinca Papi Pius XII. Experts have told their court, theological and historical. There is nothing in any letter against the Christian faith and the prodigal system, there are no troublesome places in them, no cause for reluctance, even less doubt about the pure conscience and the sacred significance of Aloysius Stepinac. Perhaps Porphyrius has some other letters to us unknown, let him give them insight into the public otherwise, with the full right of his words, we can interpret them as slander. It is hard to believe that Porphyria spoke of the communist counterfeit used at the Stepinac trial, challenged in several scientific papers. The Stepinac was declared blessed in '98. Mr. When it was a step towards the canonisation of intervention under the cover of the ecumenism of the Serbian Orthodox Church, the process was temporarily halted, the Pope formed a joint commission, eventually each side remains at its positions. On the one hand, however, there is a large number of documented causes, and on the other hand, unfounded slanders at the level of the communist-mounted process. So Aleksandar Vukic said in 2016 that Stepinac, I quote, was one of the key ideologists of the worst Nazi government. I'll remind you that the ideologist of the Nazi government is still on May 14, '41. writes the chief a protest letter for Ustasha shooting 260 Serbs in Glina. On May 22nd, '41. Stepinac protested in a letter to Minister Andrija Artukovic against the provision that all Jews must wear a Jewish sign. '42. In his eloquent sermon, the Stepinac presented a clear teaching and attitude of the Church on pagan Nazi racism. In a letter to Pavelić on 24 February '43. Stepinac Jasenovac calls it "a disgraceful slag". The New York Times in July '43. He's been writing about Stepinche's 14rd-grade sermon against racial laws. The first thing, says the Stepinac we claim, is that all nations are without exception to God's nothingness. Another thing we claim is that all nations and races originate with God. There's really only one race, and it's God's race. The third thing that we claim, every nation and every race, as it has reflected on earth today, has the right to live a worthy man and to act worthy of man. Who else spoke publicly in occupied Europe? About saving Jews and Serbs from talking. In the same interview Mr. Porphyria said, quote, to overcome prejudice, it's important that we understand each other. In order to understand each other, we need to get to know each other, and to get to know each other, we need to have communication, we need to have a relationship. In practice, however, Porphyria saw Serbian-Croatian dialogue as a dialogue between Serbs and Yugoslavs, as shown by the composition of its... Understanding should be achieved with political Croats, those who believe that Croats have the right to create their own state and that they can manage themselves better than others do, even if the Serbs do. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A state based on God’s laws, which was spoken of by Stepinac, not a puppet nakaradna, who was eventually prophetically predicted by fate. This Croatia, Porphyrius. Not Pavelic or Broz. Instead of continuing to continue on the South-Communist propaganda where Stepinac became a problem only when he refused to comply with new authority and to separate himself from the Vatican, I am surprised that the patriarchs and religious political modern Serbia did not act contrary. They started taking over Stepinz. Which forces American Jew Esther Gitman or Englishman Robin Harris to dedicate a good part of life and scientific work to Stepinac written about, while those who fully understand his language, the first neighbours, remain trapped in a shallow, transparent communist propaganda, and instead of being inspired by the Stepinac, are blasphemed by vile insinuations. Are we going to discuss the deeply troubled parts of your lighthouse, Nikolai Velimirovic, about what he writes about Jews, about Hitler, about Ljotic? We won't. We are not tiny souls that will look under the glass, we can understand the ignorance and failure of the earthly man, we need to observe the spiritual good. It's not about that, it's about getting a weed out of your eye, and then it's about a thorn in your brother's eye, because there's no thorn in Stepinco, so it's about making it up, and it's about insinuating it. What letters, Porphyrius? What troubled parts, say, announce, that we don't respect this man if he doesn't deserve it. Porphyria is a relatively young man chosen as a patriarch. I wish him good health and for decades to be at the head of the Serbian Orthodox Church. I'd like him to take this as a pathetic, brotherly and Croatian invitation to open his eyes, expand his eyes, and make no mistake in his soul. That it doesn't descend to the level of a Vulin and a Wolf. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u27820	Fourth debate, dear colleague Karolina Vidovic Kristo as an independent representative, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u27821	Ladies and gentlemen, a few days ago, the editor-in-chief of Germany's most investigative daily newspaper Bildzeitung, Julian Reichelt, resigned temporarily. The reason he resigned was because he sexually harassed his colleagues. Here I want to talk about the situation in the Croatian media, and because of this German example of preventing abuse and legal protection that an ordinary journalist can rely on and fight for his rights and against a far stronger man. Unfortunately, the Croatian journalist has no protection and therefore the situation in Croatian media is alarmingly poor. It is clear to everyone that functional democracy, the rule of law and the equality of citizens are impossible without free and responsible media. The situation in Croatian media is unfortunately the same as in other areas of our society and it can be described as a system in which the narrow circle of ownership-edited structures abuses the vast majority of Croatian journalists. These journalists, of course, do not have the protection of courts or states because, as we know, politics, justice and the media are a trinity that keeps Croatian citizens in their own captivity. Today's Croatian journalist is paid miserablely, exposed to all kinds of mobbings, so you have situations that on very read portals, very educated journalists with the knowledge of several foreign languages earn a miserable 3500 kuna. Because journalistic independence and ethics are for the Croatian elite unauthorized phenomena. But similar journalists like Aleksandar Stankovic or Dragan Nikolic from HRT earn 20 or more thousand kunas. Croatian powermakers accept scandalous and unprofessional, for example, these two. So Stankovic was a model for Nadan Vidosevic and never denied that he was on his payroll. Journalist Dragan Nikolic would not have met the criteria in school newspapers with his journalistic skills. We saw Nikolic's work the other day in an interview with the Serbian Orthodox Church. The level of unprofessional inconsistency was in the style of Goran Milic's interview with Marshal Broz, but the chief shadow editor, Andrej Plenkovic and Nina Koržinek are not interested in the legal obligations of HRT, in today's Croatia all relevant media are controlled by political elites. These Croatian lowly-paid journalists do not, of course, have any possibility of rebelling against the system. The right to the Croatian court cannot be obtained by an individual because the Croatian judiciary acts as a bodyguard of power. We have such affairs as billions of kunas, that the budget of much larger and richer states could not endure it, but such affairs must not be investigated by you because investigative journalism is forbidden discipline in us. Have we heard anything about Janaf in the last few days? We didn't. The media is rightly called the fourth pillar of power, as long as political abuse of media freedom is possible, we cannot expect the rule of law and thus neither equality nor progress nor prosperity. The public media system is directly managed by the Government and the so-called system. private media, large publishing houses and relevant portals also pay state-owned companies, counties, cities etc. The sad fact is that Croatia had significantly more democratic standards in the late 1990s than it has today. I remind you, there was a legitimate question about who, for example, owns the Evening List. Today, the SDP-HDZ political octopus created a social state in which citizens have no basic information about what they should know the full truth about. Who owns the New TV? Who owns the Evening List? Who owns N1 TV? How much money and who do the ministries and state-owned companies give to in the media? For example, we all know that Jutarnji and Vecernji list do not live on the market, but Plenkovic's government corrupts them through state-owned companies, ministries and various useless conferences. By corrupting the media, it creates great damage in Croatian society and contributes to the poverty of Croatian citizens. I'm going to paraphrase the famous Joseph Pulitzer. "Transparency of public life is the moral power of every society." It is the obligation of every Democrats to fight uncompromisingly for free and responsible media. In that fight, I will endure. We must fight that for us Croats the same standards as other European peoples, it is our right and no corrupt deep state will take that right away from us.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u27832	We're going to the third debate. Dear counterpart Darko Klasic on behalf of the HSLS and reformers' Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u27833	Thank you, dear President of the Assembly, dear colleagues and colleagues, good morning, everyone. I'm going to talk about associations because obviously that's one of the problems in our society. Associations are a way of free association of citizens in order to achieve their own goals and are the most numerous civil society organisations that should play an important social role without the intention of obtaining benefits or other economic and appraisal benefits. At present, more than 60,000 associations are registered in Croatia, and they are financed by the wave from the state budget, while our companies fail, the number of inhabitants is inevitably falling, the number of associations is growing, and there is no one keeping a special record of the activities of the associations. It is prescribed by the Regulation that associations are to be classified independently in the Register of Associations in one or more areas of action. The funding of associations is a target of frequent criticism in the public, and one of the main reasons is that most of them rely only on state budget funding, and often they can be financed in a non-transparent way. The report shows, which has been available since 2016 only for civil society organisation programmes and projects from all public sources at national and local level, that more than one billion and 740 million kuna have been allocated to them. It is particularly important to stress that all associations are covered in this, for example Dinamo or HAK, which are definitely examples that would not be the first among civil society, but their design forms are definitely associations. Namely, the basic difference in this context between companies and associations is property and profit. Companies on this issue are more or less transparent and it is known who makes decisions, the one who has the biggest ownership stake. It is more complicated with the associations because each association, mainly regulates the decision-making process with its statutes. The most common are members of the congregation, and sometimes boards of directors, which all comes down to power games when it comes to managing these associations. With revenue of more than $1.1 billion, from the sale of goods and the provision of services, only in 2016 did one part of the association sector take part in the market that might have been incometing from a private sector and thus create illegal and non-transparent competitions, companies of which this country actually lives. In order to avoid this, it is necessary to transform such associations into institutions, thus not taking away these associations, and the data would be much simpler and more transparent. On the other hand, the largest number of associations earn an average of up to 50,000 kuna per year, and most associations, or 63%, do not have any employees, while 69% of them do not have any volunteers, although the large optics of state funds are obviously present here. Given the size of funds from all public sources of funding at national and local level allocated to the work of associations, it is also necessary to establish effective supervision of their work in order to ensure the work of those parts of civil society that contribute to the overall improvement of society and which are necessary for the functioning of modern democracies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40750	It was all in free speech today, so we move on to the agenda: - Final proposal of the Law establishing the University of Defence and Security, second reading, P.Z. No. 24; The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia under Article 24. 85 Constitution and Art. in relation to Art. 172. 190. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Defence Committee and the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. I would now ask the motionary's representative to give an additional explanation of the final bill. Honorable Defence Minister Mario Banozic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40751	Dear Mr President, distinguished representatives and representatives of HS, today we present the Final Proposal of the Law establishing the University of Defence and Security, a law which, after 30 years of the establishment of the Croatian Army and several models of education, lays down permanent frameworks for the education of future HV officers, but also employees in other bodies whose jobs and responsibilities are linked to the home security system, as well as the frameworks for the development of science in this area. The education of HV officers has been taking place for years in collaboration with the university community in the Republic of Croatia. The first university study programmes began in 1992 for the needs of Croatian Air Force, and already in 1997 the first military pilots, graduate air engineers, entered the Croatian army. Afterwards, he started a cadet programme in which these MORH scholarship students studied on other university programmes for the needs of branches, genders and services in HV, after which the candidates for officers were assigned to one-year military training for officers. In 2014, university programs of military leadership and military engineering were accredited, which is performed with the University of Zagreb and is a military submarine with the University of Split in 2017. Subject studies in curiculum have integrated military subjects and the necessary practical instruction to train future officers for genders and services in the Land Army and Navy, and are almost entirely conducted at the Croatian Military University. Franjo Tudjman. This development of the education system for the needs of the defence system was followed by strategic decisions from the period of the establishment of the HV and the Homeland War, and further development was identified in the long-term development plan of the OSCE, which planned to transform the Croatian Military University. Franjo Tudjman, a highly educated and scientific research facility for the needs of the defence system. That direction of transformation was confirmed in the National Security Strategy of the Republic of Croatia from 2017. As a logical sequence of the current development of the defence system for the needs of HV, which currently includes universities and colleges in the implementation of study programmes from pre-graduate to postgraduate levels, but also in support of the missing model of staff education for the home security system, the model for the development of military and security sciences, a procedure for the adoption of this law has been launched. At the beginning of this process, our two largest universities, in Zagreb and Split, were included in the law-making process, with which we perform study programmes and other state bodies, of which we point out the Ministry of Science and Education. In front of you is the final proposal for a law that creates assumptions for the transformation of the Croatian Military University Dr. Franjo Tuđman, a modern University of Defence and Security, who as a full member and partner of other universities in the Republic of Croatia and abroad will develop educational and scientific research work in the interdisciplinary field of military-defense and security intelligence sciences and skills for the needs of defence and home security systems. Education at the University of Defence and Security Dr. Franjo Tuđman, will be held for jobs within the framework of the defence system and the home security system, and according to this law, the specialities of the university are regulated in the light of the specificities of the defence portfolio. The University of Defence and Security is established so that the existing study programmes, which are held by the University of Zagreb and the University of Split, are combined with the University of Defence and Security in order to carry out the activities of higher education, scientific, professional and other activities. The founder of this University, as well as other public universities in the Republic of Croatia, is the Republic of Croatia, and the rights and responsibilities of the founders performs the MORH. The University of Defence and Security will carry out its work in the premises of the Croatian Military University, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will conduct the transfer of real estate and other property necessary for the establishment of the University. The funding for the work of the University shall be provided in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia in the division of the MORH, and practical actions such as exercises, work in cabinets and laboratories will be carried out at locations of the Croatian Army. At university studies, university study programmes for the needs of OSRH performed with universities in Zagreb and Split are not now performed together with other students but separately. There are specific features of a military call, i.e. how to process topics and exercises that require the separation of military persons in a higher education system, which is both practice and in other military universities in Europe and the world. Regardless of the involvement of the MORH in the founding party's scope, the first article of the proposed law stipulates that the provisions of the law governing institutions, scientific activities, higher education or this law are not in question and does not exclude the University of Defence and Security from the rules of quality evaluation applicable to other universities in Croatia. In the section of the scientific activity of the university, it should be noted that there are no institutions in the Republic of Croatia dealing with scientific research in the field of military science and this university will provide the basis for the development of military sciences and will complete the absence of a defence and strategic scientific research of defence resistors as well as other bodies from the Homeland Security System. The University of Defence and Security as a high school research institution opens up the possibility of equal participation in international defence and scientific research projects and the development of a common military-educated curricula, which allows for stronger affirmation of the Croatian military on the international stage. The defence universities are formed in a large number of NATO and EU member states, and some of them, and some of them need to be pointed out in particular by the United States, the Federal Republic of Germany, the French Republic, the Italian Republic, the Republic of Poland and Hungary with which the Croatian Army has military cooperation programmes. The University of Defence and Security will be established as an integrated university without a university and will not implement study programmes that are not military defence and security intelligence or Homeland Security Imports and will therefore not be competing with other universities in the Republic of Croatia. It is planned to continue the excellent cooperation of partnership relations in conducting studies with the university community. One of the objectives set out in the process of establishing the University of Defence and Security is to enable long-term certifications and diplomas acquired under the military education system as public documents and in support of the transition of military personnel to another career, after leaving the defence system. At the annual level, various forms of lifelong training and professional military education at the Croatian Military University end up about 1,400 members of the Croatian Army and employees from other state bodies. Within the framework of the University of Defence and Security, accreditation of the existing programme of lifelong training and professional military education, such as the one-year programme of the War School "Ban Josip Jelačić" or the "Blago Zadar" Command School. In the form of specialized graduate or postgraduate studies programmes or for other shorter military accreditation education programmes in the form of adult education programmes. I point out once again that the establishment of the University of Defence and Security is fully in line with the provisions of the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education and the Law on Quality Security in Science and Higher Education. The proposed law also regulates other specificities of the University of Defence and Security in the light of the specificities of the defence portfolio but in accordance with the constitutional provision on the autonomy of the university and with the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education. Method of accreditation through transfer of holding over their study programmes which are currently the holders of the University of Zagreb and Split and... Mandatory recreditation is in line with the education laws. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the previous procedure of adopting this law, agreements on the intention of both universities to decide their Senates have been signed on a change in the holding of studies. As regards other conditions for the establishment of a university, other than this law as a founding act, there are agreements with other universities for the joint implementation of study programmes. The space and equipment and long-term financial guarantee are secured and... and the development of scientific and scientific and teaching staff for the needs of Croatian universities has been a priority for years. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The minimum conditions for their own scientific and educational staff have been met but will continue to work intensively and this will be in line with the provisions of the quality law in higher education will be consistent with the dynamics of the implementation of the transfer of study programmes from this law, which provides for the development of dynamic plans with the University of Zagreb and Split. In the context of staff, currently in the defense system we have about 50 doctors of science, of which 20 were elected or at the end of the election process in the scientific and educational calling. The Ministry of Defence has further ensured the involvement of 10 external co-workers selected in scientific and teaching professions that are not employees of other universities, but mainly of retired military personnel and employees of other state bodies. With regard to the development of its own scientific and educational staff, starting in 2016, the scholarship of members of the Croatian Army to postgraduate doctoral studies in the Republic of Croatia and abroad is carried out. Currently, 70 of our employees are studying in doctoral studies in the field of technical, social, natural, humanistic, interdisciplinary sciences, of which 50 are with the financial support of the Ministry of Defence. During 2021, in line with the approved plan and the financial means provided, the scholarship of 20 employees in doctoral studies was planned and more than 50% of these PhDs were young officers or civil servants, thus enabling long-term development, sustainability of military sciences and higher education systems. At this point, for 40% of the subjects on study programmes for the need of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, the Croatian Military School provides us with the right to be optimistic about the long-term development and sustainability of the University of Defence and Security. How detailed was the transformation of the Croatian Military University and the development of the University of Defence and Security "Dr. Franjo Tudjman says that plans have been developed to implement the transformation of development through four-year phases, from 2022 to 2033 when expected by a military dictionary, "full operational capacity" and we hope to begin a post-graduate doctoral study in the scientific field of military defence and security intelligence science and skills. Dear MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament, the drafting of the final proposal of the law was carried out on the basis of the proposal, observations and opinions presented on the working bodies and plenary session of the Croatian Parliament. The final proposal for a law amends the provisions relating to the jurisdiction and bodies of the university in order to further comply with the provisions of the Constitution and the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education in the work relating to the selection and jurisdiction of the Rector of the University, the jurisdiction of the University Council and the formation and jurisdiction of the Senate. Article 5 of the final draft of the law, which is now set up and conducted by the University of Defence and Security, has been completed only in the area of the defence system and the home security system. The final bill included the agreements concluded between the Ministry of Defence and the University of Zagreb and the Ministry of Defence and the University of Split on the intention to change the status of study programmes. In addition to the bodies involved in the prescribed procedure in the preparation of the final draft law, the National Council for Science, Higher Education, Technological Development, which conducted the analysis and discussion of this law and concluded that the law provides an appropriate framework for quality implementation of the acquisition of accredited study programmes and provides a basis for further development of scientific and teaching components in the activities of the University of Defence and Security. In the year in which we mark 30 years from the establishment of the Croatian Army by the Law on the Establishment of the University and Defence and Security Dr. Franjo Tuđman lays the foundations of an extremely important educational segment that will guarantee the sustainability and quality of staff in the defence and homeland security system. This creates a legislative framework for the transformation of the Croatian Military University to the University of Defence and Security Dr. Francis Tudjman is of particular national interest. The proposed law therefore creates key conditions for further development of the capabilities of the Croatian military and military skills as a science. The existing study programmes of military engineering, military management and military maritime management cover all branches of the Croatian military, and they are created thanks to excellent cooperation with the University of Zagreb and Split, which will support the educational process after the establishment of this university and will be our partners. The University of Defence and Security will allow the development of a scientific teacher for the interdisciplinary field of science in the field of military defence and security intelligence and skills, and will be able to apply to EU funds which so far could not. The university will develop and maintain scientific research in support of military defence and security intelligence activities. Military education is a demanding, specific area covering a wide range of activities. We will work together to create an organization that will be ready to produce leaders for the Croatian military and other members of Homeland Security. I suggest you support the Final Proposal of the Law establishing the University of Defence and Security.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40752	I thank the Minister, please stay here because we have replicas. We have all 21 replicas together. The first is the respected colleague Selak Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40753	Dear Ministers, I will agree with you that the establishment of this university is both a strategic and a security issue for the Republic of Croatia. In that sense, the key question is what is the military component of this military university. I would therefore like to know why you have not accredited the Croatian Military School as a university component in 2014 but only university programs and what has changed since 2014 with regard to the staff to be taught, the military scientific staff that you are now able to establish a university or what you have done to keep your staff in line with the rules that require early retirement in the scientific most fertile years so that they can participate competently in the work of a military university and that would be so.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40754	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40755	I find it difficult to answer why something was not answered in 2014 because I was not present, but what I can say is that it is definitely in line with the long-term development plan and the special regulations of the Ministry of Defence worked continuously on the development of staff of the Croatian Military University. It was done in collaboration with just mentioned university studies through a public interdisciplinary approach and was trying to apply what they had through war schools, through a new scientific contribution to the development of personnel that we have today. But in order to grow into an institution, you know we have to have people who are scientific staff. And today, just with the doctoral studies that have been funded over the past years and today we are developing the staff with which we will further develop this institution. So, I can't talk about the past, I want to talk about this law about what's going to happen in the future about military university.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40756	Comrade Nemet, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40757	Since the first reading in the academic community and committees, it has been debated that the provisions of the Law on Quality Insurance in Science and Higher Education are not applied to the establishment of the University of Defence and Security. You said it wasn't like that, that they applied. I wonder if diplomas won at a university like this for future cadets will enable a civil career someday, will they be recognised in the EU? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40758	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40759	This is what I mentioned in the opening statement that one of the purposes of this very university is that diplomas that will be educated within the military university or the existing 3 programmes will also be applied in the civil sector. So after leaving the military system, that person will be able to find his application in civil society as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40760	Comrade Ante Bačić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40761	Thank you, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers, for all the reasons that you have stated and the needs of the Croatian military itself for the establishment of the University of Defence and Security, must not forget this international component and precisely the reasons that we need for the establishment of this university, so I would like to know if you can say a few reasons how much we need the university to cooperate with NATO itself and other military institutions to mention the foreign armies and especially in this segment of attracting foreign cadets. And we must not forget how much we need the university to withdraw funds from the EU funds because we know that so far the military school could have been only a partner but never the holder of the EU projects themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40762	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40763	Dear parliamentary representative, we, as a member of the NATO Alliance, are involved in many peacekeeping missions and operations. And we are just in our knowledge, preparedness and performance of our tasks among the more recognised members of NATO. We will definitely develop further cooperation on education, education of the Croatian military through the existing positive regulations, but also international soldiers. I'll give you just one practical example. The Navy said I was one of the directions where we are distinctly, I'll say freely, strong on education and respected among allies. We have planned through the next year as the military university develops a complete program to switch English only to have this stronger cooperation with our international partners and allies and thus not only work on education but also on the exchange of certain experiences both through exercises and through this theoretical approach.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40764	Comrade Ackhar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40765	Dear Ministers. The founding of the university is a long-term process, so I wonder how quickly you expect this transformation to take place in how soon in what time will it happen? And given your specificity, what is the collaboration with the Ministry of Science and Education? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40766	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40767	Dear Parliamentarian, I thank you for asking. From the opening statement, I said it was a 10-year period that would be practically in three stages. What is and where we have so far shown the greatest collaboration with the Ministry of Science is in the formation of a university at the passing of a whole model where you see that we went into the formation of a university through departments, so we leave space for further development and in this we will have full support of the Ministry of Science and Education and in the future period. Also when passing existing studies that will be recredited at some point within the framework of the University of Science and Defence Security.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40768	Dear Sačić, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40769	Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. I am very pleased to announce that the Croatian Sovereigns Club will be happy to support this law and the establishment of the University of Defence and Security Dr. Franjo Tudjman, but we also commit you to this university is your obligation, Senate, rectors, university bodies not to approach anti-Croatian villains who demean the victims of the Homeland War, the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the Declaration of Homeland War and the grand victory of Croatian defenders are actually declared by agreement or ethnic cleansing or civil war. This is your obligation, you must not open doors to Croatian university, military school.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40770	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40771	Dear Parliamentarian, I thank you for asking. In fact, so far we have had cooperation as I have said with the existing universities, it is specifically 17 universities with which we have so far cooperated, all employees who have joined the Croatian Military University as external associates were proposed by the parent institutions or universities. I agree that the quality system must be such that people who teach must have all the competences, the skills needed, and I expect this to happen in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40772	Comrade Voter, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40773	Thank you very much. Dear Minister. You invited us to support the establishment of the University of National Security and Defence Dr. Franjo Tudjman, we told you this already in the last term when you came before us with this law and we ideally support, but your path you decided to go is against the law. You are actually bringing HS into a situation to establish one higher education institution past two key laws that apply to all other higher schools in the Republic of Croatia, that is, on the one hand, the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education and the other Law on Quality Insurance, and you cannot assure us that this is not the case, that you respect all these laws because the fact that still for this high school will not be worth a postulate that applies to all others, means starting from the initial accreditation providing quality in the creation of that university itself, neither does supervision. Only in addition to that fact goes that you are here, not the Minister of Education. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40774	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40775	So,... the esteemed parliamentary MPs in the opening statement, I stressed that they were precisely with the laws that we discussed as a topic last time, in addition to that, all the necessary bodies that we had at the moment from the parliamentary board, also the advisory roles of the Ministry of Science and Education and the law are in line with the positive regulations, so I see no reason why you claim that it is not harmonised. And the law itself also from the opening statement you saw that it would be for further development because of its specificity just in charge of the Ministry of Defence, that's why here today is not the Minister of Education at the exhibit.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40776	Here you go, fellow Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40777	The Honorable Minister, the Honorable President of the Parliament. Well, I'd like to refer exactly to these criticisms that come from the opposition. You yourself have said that the law is in line with the Law on Science and Higher Education, this procedure has passed equally by the University of the North, the University of Slavonski Brod, after 6 months there will be recreditation of the system and it is good that you are there, not the Minister of Education. And that would set an example of such a university where I and myself were staying at Ecole Polytechnics in France military university founded by Napoleon under the management of the Ministry of Defence, a good part and the French government is recruited, the managers of that university therefore it is a good example as I believe other examples, despite the members where such universities are founded, congratulations to you on that. And I think this second reading is an improvement compared to the first and thank you for listening to Parliament's proposals as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40778	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40779	Dear Parliamentarian, thank you for all the suggestions we have had in constructive discussions since the last session in Parliament when we had the first law reading or the first rereading of the law. We were really trying to capture everything that was constructive and positive and is now built into the law and I see that it is seen through the debate so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40780	Here you go, pal Shimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40781	I thank the president of HS. The Honorable Ministers. Here is the act of establishing the University of Defence and Security of Dr. Franjo Tudjman is worthy of respect and strong support for the development of the winning Croatian army in professional terms. We actually know these little older ones that only the advances in the Croatian army were when officers, officers passed certain trainings and I think it is necessary to have a university, not to pay services to other foreign universities for training the Croatian army. My question to you to what extent will the establishment of the University “Dr. Franjo Tudjman" to be in synergy with the economy or with the production of military industry for the needs of Croatian soldiers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40782	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40783	The establishment of a military university is one advantage that will be shown in the military defence industry. In fact, we have so far not had the opportunity to use EU funds at all in terms of neither the exchange of individual cadets, programmes, but only in the context of our mutual agreements and agreements that we have with our partners allies. However, by the appearance of the European Defence Fund in which the first component of research and development is, means the first, first, first, first access to the general defence fund to be available for the next 7 g. is right through research and development and so far we have not had as such an opportunity because we have worked in cooperation with civil institutions. Through this specialization, we are sitting right with our economies and through the support of the Ministry of Defence, so a triple hex model comes to the development of future production of military-defense equipment that will serve defence security.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40784	Now it's Comrade Stier's turn, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40785	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. If anyone among us was considering defence and security policy and academic contribution to the development of defence and security policy, then it was Professor. Miroslav Tudjman. I would use this replica to highlight his contribution, in order to recall, the contribution and in establishing this university I believe that HS will approve, confirm and vote this final proposal and I think the new university would do well to do the same in an appropriate way and pay tribute and valorise this contribution made by Professor. Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40786	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40787	Dear Parliamentarian, I must point out that right through the parliamentary committee and the work of the assembly, Honorable Parliamentary Representative Miroslav Tudjman has made an extraordinary contribution to the creation and correction of this existing, existing law and has often been an opportunity to exchange views on the future functioning of the university in the assembly. And I must also agree that there is an extraordinary contribution to all this in informing the university that tomorrow should be another special way.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40788	Hey, buddy Buck, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40789	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Ministers, please tell us how many teachers are currently employed at Francis Tudjman High School, and is this number of teachers enough to meet the criteria of accreditation for all the study programmes you intend to take over? And if it is not enough, please answer the question of how do you intend to obtain these terms or how do you intend to engage the required number of teachers in the scientific and teaching profession in just 6 months until the accreditation process or what is called in this legal text the recredit which is therefore intended for only 6 months, how do you intend to acquire these human resources in particular in light of the fact that, in the opening part of the law or in the final part of the comments, there is no need for the implementation of this law to provide any additional resources in the budget? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40790	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40791	The existing Croatian Military School so far I have said functioning through the University of Zagreb and Split through these 3 military management programmes, military engineering, military maritime where 40% of the colleges have meant through their own teaching staff, where I said that this figure is not enough for reasons because these 60% of the cases are done through an interdisciplinary approach in cooperation with external co-workers from universities that come from civil, civil society. That way I think we can do more work if we develop our own staff, more dealing with the specificities of the military-defense-security-intelligence system itself. That's why I mentioned that so far we have 50 doctors of science, but we also have a new competition under way for 20 more doctors of science to take over tomorrow's existing colleges. I also said that the funds don't need to be further secured Yeah. [[Intruder: Thank you Ministers]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40792	I'm sorry I have to take care of the minute. Comrade Petyr, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40793	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, this is a commendable initiative because the University of Defence and Security will "Dr. Franjo Tudjman’ be able to produce leaders for HV and other components of Homeland Security. It will develop and maintain scientific research in support of military defence and security intelligence activities. What I'm interested in, is this university going to be able to apply for its interdisciplinary programmes for EU funds as project holder because we know that we could only be partners so far? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40794	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40795	Dear MPs, I thank you for asking. Yes, this is the first beginning of our story related to European funds, i.e. the specific European Defence Fund, where I stressed that from the existing €7 billion planned to be available, the first €2.6 billion is located in the research and development component where scientific, scientific approach develops production, technological processes and products themselves with the support of the public administration and in this case the Ministry of Defence will serve for the purpose of military defence security. Through research and development we will primarily develop our own staff, which are in the process of elections in scientific teaching means in their fields of work through public interdisciplinary approach, power will also be applied in engineering and in mechanics and in information and in the euro nautical and all that we have so far in the context of existing civil institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40796	Comrade Puljak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40797	Dear Minister, once again support in perfecting our defense and security personnel, there is no dispute. I think we all agree in this assembly. However, the fact is that Article 1 here is paragraph 4 that this university will not pass the initial accreditation procedure, and within 6 months it is said to be recredited. So my question is why did we need to set up a whole new university, why couldn't we solve this need for training through the establishment of a university at existing universities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40798	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40799	So the point is that we have today an institution that will give us the opportunity to expand. You've seen that we didn't start three colleges, military management colleges, maritime colleges, military engineering colleges, but we went to departments, and in that case, the military university gives one width because we're not talking about the period of a year, two or three how much the university should develop rather than literally 10 years. With this one approach that I have now mentioned by EU funds, we will be given the possibility of further expansion. Recredit is also needed to establish that someone could take over existing studies because they are now accredited within the existing universities of Zagreb and Split.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40800	Comrade Vukovac, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40801	Thank you. Therefore, the proposed law of Article 12(2) does not define a university without the consent of its founders to acquire, burden or alienated property and other property, nor does it contract any other legal business if the value of a contract is more than one million kuna. The amount referred to in paragraph 2 is actually too high. Don't you think that one zero would still be more appropriate by taking care of the extremely corrupt environment in which we live, and what are many reports about independent institutions of life in Croatia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40802	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40803	Dear Parliamentarians, I understand that the amount of a million kuna sounds a lot, but when you sign here, let's say one of the smallest projects and you take the equipment, some equipment where you're going to do a transfer of ownership of EUR 150,000 in the world of European funds is almost a small amount for one project. So I think it's a million kunas, if you look in the eyes of the users of future projects even a little bit.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40804	Comrade Deur, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40805	The Honorable President, the Honorable Minister, congratulations first and foremost to the University of Defense and Security. Here's for sure and with this act you show what President Tudjman is through both the winning Croatian army and through a NATO member shows what he wanted, is a modern officer, an officer who will be a part of what is most modern. Today you are safe through this university and through everything that the Croatian soldier has gone through, you are also showing an officer that you are truly keeping an eye on, and normally in the measures of all of our economies that we live in, but that we want to be a really strong member, an ally, the strongest forces in the world, and that is NATO and once again congratulations and full support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40806	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40807	I would like to thank the honourable parliamentary representative. Here I can also thank you for your support in preparing this law with all the experience you and many defenders have had in the war and participated primarily in the formation of the Croatian Military School, but also in the transfer of knowledge that is being applied today in the Croatian Army.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40808	Comrade Pavić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40809	Dear Ministers, I believe there is not a single club that is not for the real establishment of this university and that our cadets are really allowed to have good and quality schooling. I think it is extremely important for our cadets to have a good program, to have good teachers, to have good access to learning, to have good conditions at that university, but it concerns Article 1(4), which avoids actually accreditation at the beginning of university work, but I hope that we will resolve it later. However, it cannot be called that accreditation after 6 months of recreditation. What I would ask you to explain here and to say, given that there is no law, no description of the law, what are the financial effects, what are the organisational effects and what qualitative effects of establishing that university.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40810	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40811	If I understand the question correctly, you're wondering how.../incomprehensible/... this readjustment procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40812	So I'd like you to tell me if it will be, if I may?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40813	This is, uh, not according to the Rules of Procedure, let's just do it in one sentence.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40814	I didn't understand the question.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40815	I'd like you to explain to me how many financial effects there will be, will there be less costs than they are so far, will there be a higher quality?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40816	I understand now, okay. So it won't be.../incomprehensible/...means we within the head of the Ministry of Defence in the budget of the Republic of Croatia, which was voted in the assembly we already have the funds provided for military, Croatian Military School. So these are the same means. Here we are talking about an administrative procedure that will not require any additional costs.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40817	Comrade Bačić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40818	Thank you, Mr. President. The Honorable Ministers of this Law create a framework for the promotion and establishment of the University of Defence and Security, a framework for improving defence and national security of the Republic of Croatia. What interests me, namely in my first reading there was a dispute over the status of study programs that are being conducted today at the University of Zagreb and the University of Split. You are in Article 27, as I see it, adding and stating the agreements signed by the Ministry of Defence with the University of Zagreb, University of Split on the status of these, these study programmes. So what I'm interested in is how, after the establishment of this university's full functioning and functioning, what will be the status of these study programmes, will they be carried out the way it has been or will to a significant extent change that status itself? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40819	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40820	Now with.../incomprehensible/... accreditation of accredited already programmes that we will have, they will not change significantly but will simply as time goes by and how the staff develops will be complemented by individual holders of the colleges or cases, but also benefit from continued external cooperation support to civilian institutions because you have individuals who are not solely related to the military defence part and thus there is no need to invest in that part of the staff that we can use in external cooperation with other civilian institutions. So it's not going to make any more important changes in these previously accredited studies, but it's a question of how much we're going to give to lecturers, college performers, who are referring to military security intelligence activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40821	Comrade Bedekovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40822	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Honorable Ministers. First of all, I would like to express my full support for the establishment of the University of Defence and Security, and your opening presentation shows that the transformation of the Croatian Military University will be made by Dr. Franjo Tuđman at the University of Defence and Security will certainly be a long-term process that will take place according to the dynamic plan in several phases and as you said the dynamic plan is structured to monitor all phases of transformation until as you have told the military dictionary, full of the operational abilities of the university. So, please, can you repeat again and tell us how far, according to the dynamic plan of the transformation phase, how long will the transformation take, and when do you expect to complete the transformation process and the full operational capacity of the university? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40823	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40824	...through three stages between 2022-2033. The development of new staff, but also the transformation of the existing Croatian Military University system into the Military University, is therefore a period of 10 years which requires the construction of its own personnel, own capacities, agreements not only with domestic universities but also with other foreign universities, but as I mentioned, for example. Military maritime, translation of certain programmes, for example, in English to meet other international standards.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40825	Here you go, pal Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40826	Thank you very much, Mr. President HS. Dear Ministers, State Secretarys, Associates. Well, since we are now 30 years old this year from the formation of the Croatian Army, I think this Law on the establishment of the University of Defence and Security is this round of education of Croatian officers, officers, specialist staff who will be sure of the future of our borders, but the safe future and operations we are conducting in the system of our allies. I hope that this university, which will be defined by this law, will contribute to the further progress of the armed forces and famous Croatian soldiers who certainly defended Croatia's homeland and freed it throughout the country as well as BiH.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40827	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40828	Dear Parliamentarian, I thank you for asking. With the aim of establishing the Military University of Defence and Security, we are going precisely with the aim of primarily developing military personnel and developing not only the economic part that we will get through the component of defence and security, we will get a part of the equipment of the Croatian Army and the development of the precisely Croatian army on the knowledge and skills that I have to stress this time and this time that they have come out precisely on the foundations of defenders, Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, and I am thanking you both as the Croatian defender and Assembly representative for the contribution you have made through this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40829	And the last replica of a respected colleague, Peovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40830	Minister Banozic, I wonder if you are familiar with the ruling of The Hague Court Prlic and others? And do you think the Hague court represents a relevant institution and do you accept its verdicts? Since I assume that the answers to this question will be positive, my next question is are you aware that even after you were familiar with the fact that I literally quoted the UN court's verdict as it was, so the silence of political insinuators, the discredition of political insinuators, don't you think that this type of response represents a serious cult of personality and the creation of a cult of personality and non-democratic political practice, can there be quoted in this assembly the rulings of The Hague Court?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40831	I'd like to answer your question. .../Speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40832	Just a second Minister, Minister, just a minute, Comrade Bacic called. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40833	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, I request a 10-minute break in order to further highlight the importance of the establishment of the University of Defence Dr. Franjo Tudjman. We welcome the initiative on the establishment of this university, and we also welcome the decision to call the University of Defence and Security the name of the first Croatian president Dr. Francis Tudjman. It is unacceptable for us in the HDZ that the ideological and secular heirs of the Union of Communists here at HS are giving a statement to all MPs on the work and work of Dr. Franje Tuđmana, the person most worthy of creating a sovereign and independent Republic of Croatia along with Croatian defenders. It is incorrect, however, to slander the late first Croatian president as the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia declared him a criminal, it is not true, it is the worst defamation possible. Nowhere has the International Criminal Court declared him a criminal in any verdict, nor has he declared him a participant or organizer of a joint criminal enterprise. Therefore, it is unacceptable for the HS to come from parliamentary MPs who have been elected by Croatian voters and I think Mr. HS President that this statement and the position of MP Peovic are the least that deserves to be warned that such things are not spoken in HS. And we cannot allow what I just said, that those who regret being created by the Republic of Croatia are still at the heart of the former state, thus slandering the first Croatian president. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40834	A colleague of Bačić's will be approved. So, we've already had a similar debate, and for the last time, and my position was, as it is now, MPs in HS have been elected by citizens and represent certain political views, and the views here amount to as much as they are unacceptable to me as I disagree with, I find them untrue and offensive, but they say such things here because they are elected from the citizens and clearly represent a certain group of citizens who share such opinions with them. So I repeat again, and when I disagree and consider the thesis offensive, untrue and unacceptable, I don't give any warning. That's what I'm gonna do this time. A colleague named Peovic called for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40835	In 238, therefore, a colleague of Bačić insulted a representative in the Croatian Parliament and told the lies. My party is not the successor of the Alliance of Communists, unlike many HDZ members who were in the Alliance of Communists. And also, I must warn you, Jandrokovic, that this is not right to speak. That someone's statements are unacceptable and offensive because your function is not to disqualify parliamentary deputies based on what they're... [[Break president: Thank you very much, colleague Peović.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40836	Time's up, you can sit down, you get a warning because this wasn't an injury to the Rules of Procedure, it was a replica. And secondly, what I think of your views, I will not speak here because for this very reason that you have now spoken of, I cannot, as President of the Parliament, but I deeply disagree with them, I find them offensive and harmful to the Croatian state and the Croatian people. Here you go, breach of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40837	Thank you, Mr. President. He's been injured. 238, because colleague Peovic implies certain things that are not only true but anti-constitutional. The merits of Croatian defenders were created by the Croatian state. If it hadn't been for dr. Francis Tudjman and his moves and leadership, it is certainly a question of whether we would sit here today and if she could speak freely what she wants. In this way, I consider and accuse the first Croatian president for a criminal enterprise which is [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]] lie, leading to violations and constitutional provisions and issues of the creation of the Croatian state. [[The incursion president: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40838	Thank you very much, colleague Petyr. If that is your opinion, then we will have to address you, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, in order to define what can be said and what not. So I don't have the opportunity to determine what's in accordance with the Constitution and what isn't, but I'm calling you with regard to the sensitivity of this matter, if you consider it, it can be done that way. She reported for the violation of the Rules of Procedure and her colleague, Bedekovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40839	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I also feel that there has been a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Art. 238. It is simply a colleague who, apart from telling false facts and false facts, insults all of us here present, especially the MPs of the HDZ ranks, insulting others. Francis Tudjman and we all know and we all know what his merits are and what it's all done to you without only Franjo Tudjman. but also Croatian defenders, we wouldn't have a state today and we wouldn't be sitting here. [[Break president: Thank you, colleague Bedekovic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40840	Comrade Bedekovic, thank you very much. I've been obvious about it already, it wasn't necessary for this intervention of yours, and I think it was more of a replica than a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so I'm giving you a heads-up. Here you go, colleague Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40841	238, therefore, lies were told again. I never said or gave my assessment of the role of President Franjo Tudjman in the war in BiH, but literally quoted the UN court ruling, you could have received information in the media about it, you could have informed yourself that it was a literal quote, here unfortunately repeating the same situation as from September last year, and in fact my thesis that certain things are not to be talked about here.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40842	Thank you. A colleague of Peovic, a colleague of Peovic, gets a second warning. So, on dr. Franjo Tudjman, HDZ won the election and in these elections it was also very clear that we were continuing the policy of Dr. Francis Tudjman so your thesis doesn't hold water at all. And now you have two warnings. Here you go, colleague Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40843	It's probably more clear to you than the voters that you're continuing Francis Tudjman's policy. In that sense, I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Bridge Club for 10 minutes. On the trail of this previous debate, I'm going to remind you that the country is not defending itself declared but contentally. So, defend yourself with actions. And so I'm going to go back to what's the measure of this debate that I believe would be in Dr. Francis Tudjman, which is to focus on the quality of the military university we're trying to establish today. In this regard, I am asking for a 10-minute break to ask again a fundamental question regarding the establishment of this university, which is a human question. Namely, the question is how many scientific and educational staff that are owned by military educational competences, therefore chosen in the military defence field, today this school has, or all of these components that you are trying to integrate into the university, how many of them will have military and educational competences and that it will teach future Croatian soldiers, let us also hope to the doctors of science that we can protect Croatia and today we are at the threshold of a number of security threats, we must have a competent military staff. So we're not talking about all those accessories that will expand the education of our soldiers, but about professional, educational activities in the military-defense field. It's a question of all the questions that are a prerequisite for the establishment of this university. Everything else is a shallow demagogy. To return to that fundamental question We're looking for a 10-minute break. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40844	The apartment is approved. Here we have another answer to the replica of Minister Banozic and after that we are going on a break of 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40845	So, precisely with the goal of making the defence of the Republic of Croatia more efficient, the establishment of a military university that finds its foundations in this law is also encouraged. I also told the dynamics that the military university will develop, as well as the number of PhDs that we have at the moment, and the number of PhDs we have in the future. We also have so far the number of employees who are in the teaching and scientific calling, in particular 9, 4 who have been retired so far, active military personnel who are working on transfer of knowledge and 8 of them who are in the selection process and should be through a few weeks and over. All the other colleges, I said, I stressed that they are working in collaboration with military.../incomprehensible... or I apologize to the University of Zagreb and Split.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40846	Thank you, Minister. You can go back to the scene, now we'll take a break by 11 o'clock and 15 minutes. We'll keep on saying to the committee reporter if one of them picks up the word and then there'll be a club debate. It's 11:00. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 11:19 AM]] Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. Dear colleague Vesna Bedeković, president of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40848	Thank you very much, Mr. President of HS, Your Honor, Minister, I believe he will join, Secretary of State with his associates, dear colleagues and colleagues. The Board of Education, Science and Culture of HS shall be in accordance with Article. 97 At its 11th session, HS Rules of Procedure discussed the Final Proposal for a Law establishing the University of Defence and Security as a home working body. In its opening and reasoned statement, the Proposer's representative pointed out that the adoption of the Law establishing the University of Defence and Security will create a framework for the establishment of the University as a higher education but also as a scientific research institution for the needs of the defence system and home security systems and will certainly enable both education and future HV officers, but also employees in other bodies whose jobs and responsibilities are linked to Homeland Security. He also noted that during the final draft of the law, the representatives of the proposers supported the adoption of a final bill by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, with the majority of votes, assessing that its adoption would improve the system of higher education in the area of the defence system and home security systems, and also that its adoption would be in place with other military universities operating in a large number of European countries, such as France, Germany, Slovakia, Poland, Hungary, the United States, etc. and also, most Committee members consider this legislative proposal to meet the criteria and conditions for the establishment of the University of Defence and Security prescribed by the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education, given that, in cooperation with universities in Zagreb and Split, Dr. Franjo Tuđman performs university study programs that belong to three different scientific fields and 3 different scientific fields. During the debate, individual committee members expressed their opinion that the final draft law was not fully in line with the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education and the Law on Quality in Science and Higher Education, except for some opinions of individual members of the Committee, the majority of the Committee's members considered that the final proposal for this law met all the criteria and conditions of both laws, hence the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education and the Law on Quality in Science and Higher Education, and therefore, after the debate, the Committee decided to propose to the HS the adoption of the Law establishing the University of Defence and Security. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40849	Thank you. Now we'll move on to the debate. First in line Green-Left Block Representatives Club, dear colleague Damir Bakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40850	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor. Department colleagues, respected colleagues and colleagues. Art. 1st century 4 does not apply the provisions of the law governing quality assurance in science and higher education, which is regulated by the initial accreditation procedure. This is, but totally incomprehensible. Not just for someone who comes from the academic community. This is academic dystopia, not just academic. We have before us a law establishing an institution or institution which explicitly states in its first article that this establishment will not be implemented under the law governing the establishment of such institutions. You said, Mr. Minister, that you have the support of the Ministry of Science and Education, I am extremely sorry that there is no Minister Fuchs here, but Minister Fuchs will also have the opportunity to answer the question of what he thinks about this way of establishing a university. It's in art. 1 st. 2 that the University is established so that some accredited study programs, owned by the University of Zagreb and the University of Split, are connected with the University. The story for itself is this logical stunt that's being performed here because an entity that doesn't yet exist connects to something and then becomes, as it says in the law. However, even if we agree at this point, the problem remains essentially insecure because the university is not just programs, it is not just a plan and a program but a university and teachers, and above all teachers, equipment, organisations, services, everything that is subject to accreditation, since there is no programme without an institution, is not the programme itself. He is aware of the proposal for the problem, so in an explanation on page 11, I quote: Currently at the Croatian Military University "Dr. Franjo Tudjman’ conducts 5 university studies programmes. It's not fun. If that were the case, these programs could not be called “universals. ” These programmes are implemented at the University of Zagreb and the University of Split. 12 components are involved at the University of Zagreb alone, and the Croatian Military School "Dr. Franjo Tudjman" is only an external associate in the process. In fact, in the legal text itself, the Proposer admits the problem by being in art. The 28th century 4th said that within 6 months of the merger, a readjustment procedure would be initiated. We're back in a new logical break-in. Because how can you recredit what has never been accredited, refurbished, which has never been formulated? Of course, we would be spared the formal accreditation process. And only this university would prefer that it is and would gladly be subject to initial accreditation and would be much simpler to it, only if this initial accreditation could be acquired, and it can't because there's no conditions, in the first row of people. There aren't enough people in the science class. And you yourself ministers have responded to my replica. How, then, within 6 months, do they intend to obtain the conditions for obtaining recredit? It seems so, by transfers within some transitional period mostly from the University of Zagreb. The only things in there aren't that simple. Namely, the University of Zagreb has a decision on the teaching of teachers at the University of Zagreb and at other higher universities in Croatia and abroad. Art. 1st century 2nd of these decisions are said teachers of the University of Zagreb cannot be holders or performers of colleges in the process of accreditation of study programmes of other higher schools. Art. 4. work outside the University of Zagreb can be up to 1/3 of the full minimum teaching, nominal, pardon, teaching burden. It is unclear now how, in light of these provisions, to implement the famous merger of study programs and universities in creation. And things aren't as simple as they say. 27. of this proposed legal text, only after the possible entry into force of this law within 60 days of the Senate of the University of Zagreb and the University of Split, should these Senates, if they decide so, transfer their programmes to a newly established university. If you want, you can spot another logical loop here. The university was created in such a way that the one that was not yet in existence associated with programmes that were still unfree and that had to give in to that same university only 60 days after its establishment. Then how is this newly founded university going to bring together enough teachers? Will the University of Zagreb allow teachers who are now involved in the creation of these, the implementation of these study programmes to transfer them to a newly established university or to transfer their jobs, the coefficients? It is not that simple with the coefficients of the University of Zagreb, you know. We now note, however, that the bill says on page 17 that additional funding in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia is not necessary for the implementation of this law. That's a lot of problems, too many problems for the establishment of a university. I personally would never want to work at such a university, and I'm not even sure I'd like to get a degree in such a university under such circumstances. And with the establishment, it's a fundamental problem, and in a more decent country, the debate should stop if it even started, just us. Everything else about this law is, it's secondary, and there's a lot more to it, and I'm going to have a chance to say, like, What will be the autonomy of this university given his special relations with the Department of Defense? How is the Department of Defense going to oversee this university? How is the university council defined explicits in accordance with Article. The 60th century 3. A law on scientific activity and higher education? How is the university council considering and giving a preliminary opinion on a whole series of issues of Senate jurisdiction? How could there be no mention of any criteria for the appointment of a temporary rector, what wage status, position, rights, academic careers of members of the armed forces will be referred to work at the university, as stated in the article. 18, but completely unclear, etc. etc.? All of this and other questions on another occasion. I believe and hope that everyone and everyone understands how unsolicited this is and how humiliating the credibility of our academic community and the university system. But more and more important than anything else, and what I'm about to say right now has nothing to do with the letter of the law we're discussing. Issuing these studies of these study programmes from a wider university community will, most of all, damage these studies and their students in academic terms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40851	Thank you, too. Ms. Marija Selak Raspoudić will speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Mosta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40852	Francis Tudjman, whose character you so easily like to call, whose work you so difficult to carry out, was asked to form a military university right after the formation of a military school during the war. If you really care about Franjo Tudjman's legacy, then what's been waiting for you so far? Why were educated scientific personnel allowed to leave the system, which is still a process? It's not enough to call the Tudjman, if what Tudjman wanted to follow, and if he wants to speak for him today, then there's a legitimate question, why didn't he listen in time, and will he even listen to this attempt to create a military university now? Don't be Kerbery, don't stand over the image of the deceased without trying, and you've already had the opportunity to really turn his work into reality. I also ask this question because it may also be a fundamental security threat that threatens Croatia exactly the fact that for 30 years we have neglected military education and overlooked the necessity and need of military-educated personnel that could serve us today as a vessel that will be the holder of this university. In fact, the public should be aware of the fact that the fundamental problem of military science and attempt to create a military university is precisely the fact that 30 years since the war school was not only the bearer of its story, it was just a co-executor while other universities or other universities were key to creating an educational process that produced our military chamber, but also our military scientific staff. The question of all questions is whether the military chamber produced today in Croatia really has military competences, does it have what it says in his diploma and will this pompous creation of the university continue this process of an unsustainable military in military education or will we somehow prevent him? If we really want to stop him, then the question is, how are we going to stop him when we don't have enough so far, I'm going to repeat, a military-educated staff who could carry his own story. We do not have it because it was obviously not in someone's interest to have the Croatian army scientifically isolated. All those who say we don't need a military university, all those who defuse the purchase of planes, I think they sell shallow demagogues and miss the essence of the whole debate. We're in difficult times, we're in times of different threats that are mostly of a security nature, and we're at the moment of one of them right now. That he'd really come to life. 17. The constitution, and part of the opposition has advocated it, would just be one of those that would protect us from this epidemic. It's also the army that was on the front lines when we had a security threat and we were supposed to defend ourselves against the earthquake. The military is one of the institutions that Croatian citizens trust most, but the question is what kind of military education can we really produce? I have carefully examined the remarks delivered by the minister as his testimony to our previous debate and I do not agree with everything here but in replicas as well. Indeed, if we are realistically thinking about a military university, it is some hybrid institution that cannot share in the same way the university’s autonomy as the rest of the university’s constituents will do. She's here subject to the MORH, of course it's because it's a military university issue and a security issue. But the question is, how are we going to do this and again allow university autonomy which is a prerequisite for the university's work and which, according to the Constitutional Court's decision, is defined exactly in a way that it must not depend on any policy, on any ministry? It is a question of who will again and in what way produce the personnel who will produce Croatian soldiers? In fact, it's not the only thing that makes this university and its nature, but also its practice in this law different from the other universities. And the way he defines rector selection is different from the way a rector is defined in the Science Act. In the Law on Science, the conditions for competition for the post are primarily that someone is a regular professor, in this law it is required to be a person who has experience in managing military education and higher education processes with the fact that he is a regular professor. We are just about to see who this really applies to and who can meet such criteria and the question is, is it necessary in a different way than defining other sciences to isolate them in this law? The question is, is there really someone who meets all the conditions to be a rector even if he is a temporary future military university? These conditions are not only management conditions, these conditions are not just knowledge, these are conditions and military knowledge, and interdisciplinary military defence and security intelligence science and art has only recently come to life. And that's our basic problem that we need to regain in order to even talk about creating a university. Which we've waited 30 years for at least nominally to remain a military university. And now I'm going back to this controversial part, this part where I say it's nominal. Why do I say it's nominal? Because we need to ask what our soldiers are learning now, it will give us an answer to what they will learn within this university because this university does not bring new programs of its own, but is created in a way that will integrate existing programs into it. Of course, there is an open question as to how these components will be connected and whether it will be possible in practice at all, taking into account the very person who has also taught and created these programmes and any possible problems that can arise from the intellectual property issue once it enters the process. Today 8 out of 13 subjects whose teachers are teachers of the Faculty of Political Sciences in a pre-graduate study of military leadership and management are already accredited subjects of a pre-graduate study of politology. Some have thus objected to the militarization of education, and no one has noticed that we have been present so far in the process of politicising the army. As an invited lecturer, I also participated in the work of Ban Josip Jelačić War School. So it would be inappropriate of me to say that I don't think the military should be educated in an interdisciplinary manner. It's been an honor and pleasure talking to our top officers and trying to contribute to their education. However, it is one thing to allow interdisciplinaryism, one thing to expand education, and the other is quite another what we have in action, which is the fact that we are not expanding military education, but all this breadth offered by politology and people who are not the military and professionally educated foundation of our soldiers' military education rather than its addition. This law does not solve this problem but unfortunately cements it. The army should be the bearer of its story and the basic programs of the profession should be carried out by the military because, with military knowledge and education, the power of the Croatian army is growing. So, in order to prevent the process that has threatened us safely so far, because we did not have militaryly educated scientific staff and in order to have quality personnel who will be able to transfer that knowledge to our army, we need to devote ourselves to what is military in the component of military university, not to leave behind a declarative process that we will call Dr. Francis Tudjman, and we're not going to change anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40853	Now it's Mrs. Mariana Puljak who will speak for the Center and GLAS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40854	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected ministers and colleagues, I would now be able to read here for 10 minutes an article or item 4 of the first article and be actually the basis for the debate and the reason why we will not support this Proposal for a Law establishing the University of Defence and Security. So here I will repeat it, there is no procedure for the establishment of the university referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article that does not apply the provisions of the law governing quality assurance in science and higher education which is regulated by the initial accreditation procedure. So, we set up a university, we have a bill on the establishment of a university in which we say the law itself will not apply the Law on Quality Insurance in Science and Higher Education. That is what a colleague said earlier logically and something that shows how much something is, as they say, rotted in the country not Denmark but Croatia. Also in Article 1(2), says the university is established by joining pre-graduate university studies in military management, management, etc. with a university that has not yet been established. So the university is founded so that the study programs are combined with the university. What university if it wasn't founded? That fish bites a tail or this one like a Tasmanian nemancer, we catch our own tail. So, I say the same thing right now when those who criticize these who criticize this establishment of a university that we don't know, we're not about the fact that defense and security personnel are educated, highly educated, etc., but we need that education, we need higher education personnel, we need them perfected by the greatest and most possible criteria, but the establishment of a university in this way is not a good way. Therefore, the Act on Scientific Activity and Higher Education is bypassed, the Law on Quality Insurance in Science and Higher Education is bypassed. The fact is that this university will not pass the initial accreditation process, but will pass it says in six months the recredit process. How are we going to recredit something that hasn't passed the initial accreditation process? We have also heard so far in the first reading and here in discussions, here even on the Committee on Science, so well this university is founded in the same way as the University of North and Slavonski Brod. Well, great, we cite bad examples and we cite bad practice, so let's introduce, what was once bad, let's introduce it as some kind of practice. From the debate from the first reading, so the arguments that we got here don't actually give answers, so it's not clear who will and how will teach at the new university, in which these people will be called? The fact that people from the University of Zagreb and the University of Split are doing it now cannot be easily transferred somewhere else. The people who are doing this now question whether they will move on to a new institution, will they transfer intellectual rights to their lectures, which is the form of their engagement, additional burdens, the issue of special permits for work outside the home institutions, outside the University of Zagreb? So, except that the teacher's engagement process will be more administratively complex, it will also depend on the college board's approvals. Here in this law everything is understood. So it is not clear how this future University of Defence and Security will take over already accredited university undergraduate, graduate and integrated studies which are now being conducted as holders of the University of Zagreb and Split, in what way? It's the same. 3. says the founder of the university is the Republic of Croatia, and the rights and duties of founders will be carried out by the defence ministry. So where's the Ministry of Science, is he anywhere around here? Since there is no science minister now, I don't even know if he's given up this university completely, then he should be under the Ministry of Health in that analogy. Finally, it is said that the implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional financial resources in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia. It's also something that's actually impossible because it takes money to organize everything, it's not enough that the funding is provided for existing study programmes to organize a whole new university. Here, when we spoke, I will return to this initial accreditation procedure, remind myself, therefore, what is the requirement for, when submitted, to apply for initial accreditation, what does such a request have to contain? It shall contain an elaborate on the study programme drawn up in accordance with the instructions for the production of elaborates containing the Study on the eligibility of the implementation of the study programme in accordance with the strategic document of the network. Second, it must contain evidence of appropriate space and equipment. Thirdly, the corresponding number of completed working contracts with scientific or teaching staff. And fourth, proof of the means and means to carry out the activities in accordance with the Regulation. This is, therefore, from the pages of the Agency for Science and Higher Education, and is actually in art. 19 to 21. The law on quality assurance in science and higher education. This university will not pass initial accreditation, so the procedure is not even initiated because it simply has no condition to pass initial accreditation. And like I said, something in six months can be recredited if just, the initial accreditation itself didn't go through? Like I said at the beginning, you could read only this article here for 10 minutes. 1st century 4th and that would be sufficient reason for us not to support the Law establishing the University of Defence and Security, not because we don't think or think that the university needs us, or because we think that we don't need a highly educated defence and security code, or that the existing law does not need to be perfected and highly educated, not because we don't repeat bad practice, but because we create and establish a university according to all of it would be said by positive legal regulations, I would say only in accordance with the existing laws. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40855	Thank you. Mrs. Devereaux. Ruzica Vukovac will speak on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40856	Thank you. Dear Vice President HS, respected ministers with associates, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. So, Art. 2. The final proposal of the Law establishing the University of Defence and Security speaks of gender equality. Issuing the meaning of the term “rod” in order to achieve gender equality and to determine the limits of their interpretation in the legislation must be used without ideological interventions in the anthropological foundations of human identity. The term “rod” must be separated from the “natural identity” syntagma, the introduction of which, without exception, carries out ideological procedures in the legal order. The basic features of legal norms are universality, abstractity and obligation. Unlike other legal norms, because of the binding character of their constituent elements, they also have universal efficiency and can therefore define the frameworks within which a particular society develops. Cultural patterns find it difficult to reach wider levels of universality and uniformity, while the legal norm normally affects all social complexity thanks to its binding, abstract and universal character. The legal norm can affect all social relations, but it does not achieve the purpose of its existence, which is primarily legal certainty in the personal status and co-existence of all citizens, taking into account the ontological foundations of the system of values that permeate it or should be permeated. One of the reasons for the breach of this Fund and when the legal norm meets around all formal and material conditions of validity, is the abstraction of certain concepts which are part of its content. Gender is a biological category, a universal concept based on biological and physiological definitions that we cannot influence at the moment of conception and cannot be changed. The concept of gender occurs in the 1970s in the U.S., and was intended to do so, expose the patriarchal and for women excluding the content of a series of legal norms and cultural forms that provide or give legitimacy to the unfair social position of women in relation to men. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia uses the term gender when it refers to human identity, and the term does not mention gender. Therefore, the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia knows the sexual identity, not the birth identity, because it cites gender equality as the basis for interpreting the Constitution in Article. 3. Thus, when referenced to human identity, the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia determines on the basis of its sexual identity. The birth ideology past the Constitution exists in the true order of the Republic of Croatia, and is a denial of biological definitions as the only basis for determining the sexual identity of human beings. Human beings are identified by gender, and gender is the social dimension of the sex that is inextricably linked to it. Therefore, if the legislator's intention was to prevent the application of gender ideology stemming from an interpretative statement by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, then it is necessary to bring its own legislation into line with the statement of that understanding that the Republic of Croatia considers that the Istanbul Convention does not impose the application of gender ideology in the Croatian legal and educational system. This is an obligation to amend all legal and sublegal provisions in national legislation which are not anti-discriminational, which contain the syntagma of the birth identity, and in particular those legal provisions which recognise the right to live in another birth identity and thereby relativise the sex identity of all citizens. The following Article shall apply from the date of entry into force of this Agreement: 2. should be read, the terms in this law have the same meaning regardless of whether they refer to persons of male or female or the name of gender equality should be deleted. Art. 6. says decisions on the status application of components within the framework of the university or the exit of individual components from the university shall be taken by the Senate to a two-thirds majority of all members, with a preliminary opinion of the University Council. The university's autonomy was also under discussion before the Constitutional Court, for example in the case of 4 February 2020. where the Constitutional Court has said I quote "The fundamental principles of international documents from which autonomy cannot operate without restrictions have been confirmed by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia and in its decision and resolution since 26 January 2000". So, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia took a position that the autonomy of the university guaranteed an article. 68. The Constitution which, at the time of decision and solution, was an art. 67. The Constitution shall include the autonomy of universities to outside university institutions and other bodies that regulate the structure and operation of the university or may affect its arrangement, for example to public authorities or other public or less private legal persons who may appear as founders of the university or those who support it. The Court also held that there are restrictions on the autonomy of universities that stem from the fact that the autonomy of universities in modern countries is to a large extent limited by the powers of those on which the university depends. its founders, supporters and bodies carrying out expert supervision of its work, therefore its influence is most often expressed in the rules which each of them imposes on the university either by law or by conditions of support or positive reports on the work of the university by accepting or implementing their rules. Therefore, the autonomy of the university in reality is inevitably limited to the rights and real powers of the founders, but also to those who support the university or exercise professional supervision over its work. It follows from all these that the limitations of university autonomy are not permitted in any way in the part relating to the basic content of the university but are limited and permitted and contained in the powers of the founders or those who, among other things, have supervisory powers over the work of higher schools and that the restriction is allowed to protect the freedoms and rights of other people and the legal order of public morality and health. So the regulation of the majority which is actually a constitutional structure seems to be out of line with the principle of university autonomy. Then when we talk about art. 18th, which says university employees are officials and tenants. Therefore, the official is a person who, as a regular profession, performs the tasks of the department of state, local or public bodies. The working relationship between a civil servant and a local official is of a particular kind and is subject to specific labour legislation and, in addition, to general labour legislation, collective agreements and other sources of labour law. Our legal system has long been ruled by a total nightmare in terms of working relationships for people who receive salaries from the state budget. University employees are not officials and subsistence employees, such practice should finally be discontinued. That's what I'd say. The 18th century of this proposed law should be deleted as St. 2 reads, jobs and conditions of employment for university employees are determined in accordance with the law governing the scientific activity and higher education and regulations applicable to officials and subsistence in public services and the statute of the university. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40857	Thank you. Ms. Vesna Bedekovic will speak in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40858	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear ministers, state secretaries with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues, the HDZ Representatives Club will of course support the adoption of the Law establishing the University of Defence and Security. And this is when it comes to education of personnel for the needs of the Croatian army should be reminded at the beginning that it has been taking place for years in collaboration with the university community in the Republic of Croatia, and I will remind you that the first, that the first programmes of university education began in 1992 for the needs of Croatian Air Force. After that, the programme of cadet began as a form of university education for other branches and tribes of the Croatian army. Then in 2014 were accredited university programs of military leadership and military engineering that were carried out and are still performed together with the University of Zagreb and Split, and in 2017 an accredited university military maritime programme was implemented together with the University of Split and a recently accredited postgraduate specialist program of military leadership and management. And of course, when we look at all of this and analyze this development of the education system for the needs of the defence system, the strategic decisions of the political and military leadership of the Republic of Croatia from the period of the establishment of the Croatian Army and the Homeland War were followed when it was decided that the Croatian army would develop as an integral part of Croatian society and that education of Croatian army officers would ensure their full social inclusion and connection with Croatian citizens and Croatian people. And, of course, as a logical sequence of this development of education for the needs of the Croatian military, a procedure for the adoption of the Law establishing the University of Defence and Security has been launched. This would certainly create assumptions for the transformation of the Croatian Military University Dr. Franjo Tuđman to the modern University of Defence and Security who will fully take his place in the academic community of the Republic of Croatia. And let me remind you that this is exactly this year's 30th anniversary of the establishment of the first Croatian army unit created in the Homeland War, so in this sense, the time of the founding of this university is symbolic. As far as the transformation of the Croatian Military University itself is concerned, Dr. Franjo Tudjman at the university she rests on two strategic papers. First of all, the National Security Strategy, and then the long-term plan for the development of the Armed Forces for the period 2015 to 2024, will certainly provide for and create a framework for the establishment of universities as a first of all a higher education institution, and then a scientific research institution for the needs of the defence system and homeland security, and thus will certainly create key conditions for further development of the capabilities of the Croatian military, home security and military skills systems as a science which is extremely important. So, in particular, this scientific-research, scientific-research part, means the area of work of the future defence university. I will only remind myself that there is currently no institution in the Republic of Croatia that deals with scientific research in the field of military science. And therefore, the University of Defence and Security will provide a basis for the development of military sciences, and among other things, the possibility of equal participation in international projects will be supported by defence scientific research, in the capacity of project-holders, which so far was not possible in the status of the current university of Dr. Franjo Tudjman. This will certainly enable strong affirmation of the Croatian military on the international stage, but also cooperation and partnership with similar defence universities in NATO and EU member states, we have already mentioned them to Germany, France, Italy, Poland, the Czech Republic, etc., with which the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia traditionally have active cooperation programmes. As far as the accreditation process is concerned, the university will be established as much as some present colleagues present in the opposite sense, it will be established fully in accordance with the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education and the Law on Quality and Science in Higher Education. A method of accreditation, therefore, through the transfer of the holding of study programmes, which are currently held by universities in Zagreb and Split and the subsequent recreditation is in accordance with the laws and is certainly in line with the Ministry of Science and Education. Also, of course the previous procedure for the establishment of a law establishing a university, I would like to recall that the signed agreements on the intention of both universities to decide on their Senates to amend the holding of studies, while noting that Article 1(4) of the proposal of the final, final proposal of the law which is regulated that provisions which are regulated by the initial accreditation procedure does not mean that the establishment of a university will not be implemented in accordance with the Quality Insurance Act. I will just remind you to clarify, the initial accreditation process is an external evaluation process of the quality of the new study programmes, and recreditation is a process of external evaluation of the quality of existing study programmes already accredited, in order to confirm compliance with the conditions and standards laid down for the performance of higher education activities. Therefore, initial accreditation is carried out exclusively for new study programmes, and since these military study programmes are conducted in cooperation with universities and the Military School of Dr. Franjo Tudjman, and already accredited, are already accredited, initially, in Art. 28th century 4 of the final proposal of the Law establishing the University, the accreditation procedure is envisaged in accordance with Article. 22 Laws on quality assurance in higher education. Therefore, it does not mean and it is not true that the establishment of the University will not currently be subject to the existing Higher Education System Act, especially those relating to insurance and quality. In the process, of course, the reaccreditation that goes 6 months after the acquisition of the study programmes, of course, will confirm the quality of the study programmes, will check the number of necessary scientific staff, the necessary infrastructure, the means of work and all of them, all the conditions that already exist. And I'll just remind you, and that was also said that in a similar way were established 2 last universities, 2015, University of North and University of Slavonski Brod, however clear or unclear it is, and as much as anyone mentions it as a good, bad or medium bad example. Two universities have been established this way and these two universities have been functioning normally since 2015. And likewise, this proposal respects the criteria for the establishment of the University, relating to art. 54 The Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education relating to the number of study areas, scientific fields and scientific fields, therefore these study programmes are carried out in 3 scientific fields, 3 scientific fields, the field of technical science, the field of interdisciplinary technical sciences, the field of social sciences, the field of security and defence sciences and interdisciplinary fields of science, specifically, the field of military defence and security intelligence sciences, and that is more than what art. 54 The Law on the Scientific Activity on Higher Education prescribes. And finally, since all the conditions laid down by the laws have been met, given that the proposal of this law has been drawn up in cooperation with both the Ministry of Science and Education and with the Ministry of Education and with the University of Zagreb and with the University of Split, and given the need to establish the University of Defence and Security as, above all, a higher education and then a very important, scientific and research institution for the needs of the defence system and the Homeland Security System, the HDZ Representatives Club will support the Final Proposal of the Law establishing the University of Defence and Security Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40859	Now it'll be Mrs. Gossip. Sanja Radolovic speak in front of the SDP Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40860	Dear Vice President, thank you. Dear fellow MPs and MPs. Here, I will use my exposure immediately for a small replica, several times here today mentioned the University of North and the University of Slavonski Brod. Yes, indeed, they have established themselves in a similar way with an important, vital distinction. Administrative oversight of the legality of the work of these universities remains in the context of higher education science, therefore, under the Ministry of Science and Education, and we here today have a bill that will actually be one big precedent regarding the entire system of science and education. I'm going to say, in fact, this eight-page or 29-page law, here, I've only been now in these last hour, listening to all of you write 15 points that I think are deeply, deeply wrong and that such a law in this form today can't be passed. I would like to remind you that in 2014, the SDP Government was just about to place the entire system of defence and security on its feet and set up, therefore, the implementation of joint study programmes of the Military University with the University of Split and Zagreb. But back to what I said was precedent. We have heard several times, and that is indeed true, and the last of our colleagues, Puljak, explained to us in detail what it really means to initial accreditation of a study programme. I've been working in such a system for nearly 10 years, I personally wrote 10 elaborates of study programs and participated in the initial accreditation process. Believe me, it's an extremely strict, rigorous procedure to check the spatial conditions, the human condition, the financial conditions, which will be easily bypassed here today. It's not just that we're going to get around it, our Agency for Science and Higher Education, it's also a member of the European Association of those same agencies, and there's something called and what we say is legally achieved by joining the EU, and that's the European Area of Higher Education. And then there's the problem that's been through here a couple of times today, and we haven't got an answer to how these diplomas are going to be recognized. What happens to the people who come out of that institution, who get that paper and say, today, tomorrow, they want to continue their education in Germany, Belgium, they want to get a job somewhere. Who will and in what way and how will confess their diplomas? I will remind you that we already have a problem in Croatia when, for example, we want to hire doctors from BiH medicine here, people can't pass the nostrification degree. I'm just wondering what's gonna happen to diplomats of this kind of hybrid institution that's supposed to come into existence. Then, as far as the frames are concerned. The minister here today said that there are also a dozen doctors of science, personally, I have the data that there were 5, and now they're burned at 4 and more, all whom others actually did performance lectures, gained the status of lecturers, but did not make a significant shift in the circle of magistrates and doctors of science. It pulls another more serious problem with it, and it's a production of works. There is indeed a production of professional works at the military school, however, since the production of scientific works with reviews, it does not exist and in fact this system does not move from a dead end. Then as another major problem, I would point out, the problem of intellectual property. You need to know that, for example, on an academic year on a study programme, of 3200 contact hours, norms as we call it in the science and higher education system, that for example 1500 hours of these norms, belongs to the Faculty of Political Sciences, belongs to the staff of the Faculty of Political Sciences. That's where we come up with another problem, what about these people's work contracts? Some of these people have spent their entire lives, spent their entire lives at the Faculty of Political Sciences, and they don't want to go to a new university. They, these people have work contracts. You can't force anyone to sign some kind of different labor contract and force them to move on to a new institution or university that's supposed to come into existence. Thank God we all know that labor contracts are subject to labour law and that no method of coercion can be passed on to people at a new university. Then you may also go less important but still not entirely irrelevant, if at the new university that needs to be formed, there is at all this bureaucratic apparatus for working for students. This has been done so far by the student conferences of the University of Zagreb and the University of Split. I haven't found and have no information that they have at all offices, in the first place the office for working with students and a student referendum which could therefore be available to those who are most important, are actually our students. You have also not convinced me about the implementation of two scientific areas, you have now made a fine jump with interdisciplinary fields of science, but I personally do not believe that this is in accordance with the legal framework or in accordance with Article. 54. The Act on Scientific Activity and Higher Education, which clearly states that the university must implement study programmes in two scientific areas. Of course, I'll do it again and I'll do it again. The 25th that I think we've repeated here the most times today, which I think is the most controversial provision of this law, that administrative oversight of the legality of work will be carried out by the Ministry of Defense. Such a provision is deeply wrong and contrary to an absolute set of existing legal and sublegal acts in the system of science and higher education. Then it's about the salaries of the staff. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. Paragraph 6 states that the entire pay system will also be regulated by a law governing the service in the Armed Forces. I was just talking, so most employees work in the system of science and higher education and there's something called a collective contract for employees in the system of science and higher education. So we're working the precedent here, and we want the system to be paid at the new university by means of a legal framework that solves the service in the Armed Forces. I have to say that the SDP club supports the development of the defence and security system, however, not setting up a university in this way and we really don't understand it and we told you this at first reading, which is why it's not going to go to college, that little by little healthy and safe steps, it turns exactly the Francis Tudjman Military School into a healthy, scientific and research institution that will have its own head and tail. I still have to stress the recredit problem. So, it says here that after taking over the study programs. I saw during the public consultation that I warned you that you should have done it again because the first reading was in the previous session and it went back to the first reading in the new meeting of the Croatian Parliament, you did not do it, I rector of the University and University of Zagreb, whatever we think of him as a person, but he said there was a problem taking over these study programs. I don't see that we've even got on the board here to discuss a very important component. Is the University of Zagreb at all and is the University of Split willing to submit these study programmes? I really didn't see it anywhere, like I didn't even see the written opinion of the Ministry of Science on education that is in agreement with this way of starting this university. I'm glad Minister, for saying that Minister Fuchs supports you but here's the thing, I'm going to keep my opinion on whether or not I believe what you ordinarily said to us. I think it was a minimum of correctness on your part to get under A, the opinions of the University of Split and Zagreb on the transfer of study programmes and B, the opinions of Minister Fuchs himself, and the Ministry of Science and Education, what they think about this establishment of a university, and ultimately, if we are to be as correct as possible, the institution itself that implements both initial accreditation and recredit, which is the Agency for Science and Higher Education. Also, I really don't know how recredit will be carried out unless initial accreditation is carried out in accordance with the Law on Quality Insurance in Science and Higher Education. I don't understand what postulates, which methods will be implemented if there is no basis in the already originally implemented accreditation in this way. And finally, I'm just going to remind myself of what every time we talk about the system of science and higher education I have to say, and that's that we're here overnight setting up a university and already 2 years old at the University of Pula that has passed all these rigorous criteria, still waiting for a license to conduct a medical study despite the positive reviews and compliance it has received from the Science and Higher Education Agency as regards compliance with the network of higher schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40861	We're moving on to individual debates. The first is Mr. Damir Bakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40862	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, dear ministers. I would not repeat this moment enough about how to establish and bypass the initial accreditation process. I'd like to point out a few more provisions in this law that I think are deeply questionable. Article 25, I am about to start more or less with what my colleague Radolovic has completed, says Article 25, that administrative supervision of labour law and general acts of the university is being carried out by the defence ministry. It is a reflection of Article 3 which says that the rights and responsibilities of the founders performs the same ministry. In fact, this implies Article 48(8) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Law on scientific activity and higher education. However, this item is not clear, and it mentions an agreement that is not really here. And all the opportunity to actually get that article, that item 8. In fact, Article 48 refers to the case when a high school, when a higher school is founded as a founding unit of the ministry. It's not like that here. In addition, how can the MORH actually exercise administrative oversight in issues such as these? scientific advancement, choice or re-election in scientific or scientific teaching. Article 13(2) is said to refer to half of the members of the council as the Senate and half as the founder of the Ministry of Defence. This is explicitly contrary to Article 60(3). The Act on Scientific Activity and Higher Education, which says that one half of the members of the council are appointed by the Senate while the other half is drawn up by the next key, 1/6 appoints the founder of only a sixth, the second sixth is appointed by the unit of local self-government and the third sixth is the economic chamber. Article 14(2), the University Council shall give a preliminary opinion on a whole series of issues which are within the jurisdiction of the Senate. This is very dubious. It gives only the previous opinion, however, does not decide, but given the composition of the advice, this is described to a significant extent in question by university autonomy. And autonomy is usually both a legal and constitutional category, however, is not mentioned anywhere in this law. Article 18(3) to work at the university may also be referred to members of the armed forces in accordance with the law governing the service in the armed forces. Article 4 of the same article states jobs and job conditions for members of the armed forces referred to in the preceding paragraph shall be laid down by law governing the service in the armed forces and by law governing the scientific activity and higher education. This is written in a pietic way and it is deliberate because it is not clear now whether these persons who are sent to work at the university, and the members of the armed forces are not clear whether they are now employees of the Ministry of Defence or of the University. How will they be determined and paid? Will someone get paid as a brigade or as a doctor if they're at the academic level of the doctor? Are we introducing a new caste and a university community? This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The government of the Republic of Croatia will appoint and regulate the status and salary of the interim rector within 90 days. There are no criteria here, not even those that speak of a regular rector's choice. Apropo says I will repeat once again that the implementation of these laws does not require the provision of additional funding in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia. It's a complete nonsens. We all know that's true. And something else to end regardless of the lack of this law, this is a step in the wrong direction. I am deeply convinced that the study programmes should continue to develop within the University of Zagreb and the University of Split. Studies there are designed and subject to external evaluation and implementation by criteria and regulations governing higher education in the Republic of Croatia. They were immersed in standards in an academic environment and just make those standards and that environment are important generators and guarantees... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[Speakers speaking at the same time do not understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40863	You have, you have a lot of replicas, you don't have a lot of replicas, so you'll be able to continue this debate. Mrs. Selak Rasudic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40864	In the debate in the first reading of this law, I asked a question just following the article of the 25th Autonomy of the University. And I got a real answer from the minister, in accordance with Article 48(8), which you are also having a problem with here that surveillance can be carried out by the MORH when it comes to such an institution. And if we assume, for example. that it is okay and that the MORH will in some way exercise control over itself given the amount of persons he has in the bodies of this university that is not equal to the standard distribution within the other bodies of the university, I'm interested in what we get in return if we say this university won't be as autonomous as the other universities. Is that security? What argument would be in favor of that? Can you think of one?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40865	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40866	Thank you for this question, I do not know how to answer it at my best, but I do know it again and I repeat it to myself all this time before and before the first reading and before this second reading. I am deeply convinced that in fact the way that the Ministry of Defence's participation in the work of this university is ensured in the finality and in the composition of a council whose half of the members is appointed by the Ministry of Defence, I am deeply convinced that this is contrary to the autonomy of the university and I absolutely do not understand how, how this university can be autonomous from the Ministry of Defence under the provisions of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40867	Thank you. Mr. Price.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40868	For every country, including Croatia, it is certainly important for defence and security, and it is certainly good that, in a way, it is also tried to rise to a higher level through both the education system and through the university that would deal with it because what the minister said here today, he said that this University will only be engaged in this segment of defence and security education, so I am surprised by the word used, meaning, university, university, so the university should include several universities. From economy, mathematical science, shipbuilding, and beyond. So I find it odd that he's trying to go to a variant to start a university. Yes, this is an important topic, it should encourage education in the defense segment, but surely it should and should be more appropriate through the college itself that would do so. Also, We haven't heard today how many students they'll be. [[Intruder: Answer.]] , Croatian universities have 20, 30 and more thousand students. [[Thank you, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40869	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40870	Thank you. So, of course I do. So I think, I think, I think that it is really in the best interest of all of these currently implemented study programs in their best interests, in fact, integration or the remaining integration status at the University of Zagreb, or the University of Split, this is not just about quality control, so this is also about infinitely wider possibilities of selectivity, which is imperative of this time. This is about infinitely wider possibilities of interdisciplinaryism, which is, of course, much greater opportunities for attracting foreign students and, in general, internationalisation. We are absolutely in order for these study programs to improve, we consider it necessary, equally, but we do not see any reason nor guarantee it in the establishment of a university.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40871	Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40872	Thank you very much. I'm a colleague of Grandma's. Do you agree that in fact the legal system, i.e. the laws must be more coherent to each other in order for the legal system to be harmonised and to be enforceable as a whole and why, what, do you have any idea why the proposer insists on denying the arguments of the opposition that this bill should be brought into line with the other law, that is, the University Act?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40873	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40874	Thank you. The answer to the first question is, I don't know, the answer to the second question is once again, I don't know, with a little bit bigger, how do I say, a little bigger width of that ignorance. To me, in fact, it's embarrassing to me, it's actually embarrassing for me to be here, that here, we, the legislator, are passing a law in which the first article says that there will be no relevant law. I find it even more embarrassing that actually a colleague on behalf of Bedeković on behalf of the HDZ Club, moreover, even in his capacity, it was not said in his capacity, but a colleague acts as such, the chairman of the Committee on Education and Culture says, twice we have done so, and we can do it for the third time. A little more abstract, that means twice we've broken the law eclatively, we're no longer in the way of breaking it the third time.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40875	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Credentials. Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40876	Thank you, well-respected vice president of HS, I believe he's been violated. 238 The Rules of Procedure, where a colleague insinuates and makes mistakes at the expense of me as president of the Committee, in a way that I claim and stand behind the fact that we have broken the law twice in establishing high schools by now, which is simply not true. Neither is the law broken, nor is one, in an area regulated by science, high Education and quality of strands [[Intruder: Thank you.]] I've ever said that. [[/Intruder: Mrs. Bedekovic, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40877	Thank you. You know it's a warning because it was a replica. - Mrs. Crescent. A pulac, a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40878	Dear counterpart Bakic, I have quoted what the initial accreditation process looks like, so all it takes to get some study programme or here, university, initially accredited. Can you explain to us the difference between initial accreditation and recreditation? Is the university's recreditation going through the same procedure as initial accreditation or is it, I say, called, under quotes, a little easier procedure. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40879	Well, of course it's easier, of course, I think that's what my colleague Radolović was already talking about, so the point is that it's significantly, significantly more difficult to step up to her, initial accreditation because right at initial accreditation, you have to show that you're always being credentialed to perform study programs. So both personnel and software and equipment and space and services and everything that is really necessary is the necessary condition for the proposed study programmes to be implemented. In this respect, initial accreditation is definitely a much more demanding process.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40880	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. Thank you. Now it's Mrs. Devereaux's turn. Selak Rasudic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40881	My colleagues and colleagues, I really consider the autonomy of the university necessary for the very existence of the university and the prerequisite for the possibility of a university. It is what enables the scientific development of the university because it is in some way merely determined and structured by which it cannot, or at least more difficult to influence any policy. I would like us all to be aware of the importance of university autonomy and in principle, rather than just depending on individual cases. Because often, especially in recent times, depending on how much we liked the work of a single university rector, we were inclined to ignore and to skip university autonomy, much more to call for the supervision of the Ministry of Science over the university because the current rector did not suit us. The autonomy of the university is something that should be for centuries to come and go. I therefore hope that this indication of the importance of the autonomy of the university that bypasses this law will remain as a visitor and pledoia for all future discussions on university autonomy and that we will not violate the criteria imposed here depending on what is the Rector at the head of a particular university. The late representative Miroslav Tudjman, a prominent scientist who also participated in the work of the Military University "Dr. Franjo Tudjman" and who was an idear in his development said the agreement between the university and the Ministry of Defence is a one-way route if he leaves only the university to worry about the scientific teaching infrastructure in the area of national security. I'm afraid this bill of law continues that practice. So, what, to simplify, has been problematic so far in the work of military school is precisely a human and educational question, the question of who educates our soldiers? Our soldiers were more educated by graduate polythologists than educated by those who were expert in military science. If we're just going to switch existing programs and if the question is how successful because we should consider that. 27th century 3. does not foresee the dynamics of the course of realization in the sense that it will be established by the dynamic plan of the Ministry of Defence and the University of Zagreb, as well as by the Ministry of Defence and the University of Split after it has been accepted by the competent authorities. It's not a simple question. We will only see when this law is passed if we will indeed be able to translate what it requires into practice. But those who are now criticizing the fact that we are going to the university right now, and that we could have gone gradually to college, I will visit them that the accreditation of the university or its conversion into college was still present as the idea and process that took place in 2014, but it was not allowed to happen in practice, so it was interrupted. That's why we're in a situation where we're going across the line right now to start a university. It is really important to have quality military science and quality military education. However, if we do not return focus where it should be and if we do not make sure that we develop interdisciplinary military science and that we keep these personnel in a system that will later deal with the intellectual development of our soldiers and future doctors of science, we will continue the 30-year process of the security threat of the Republic of Croatia because so far it has not been allowed to be in that key segment, and this is its intellectual capacity in general to stand alone. Will this process begin with the establishment of a university or is it just a colorful cellophane, remains an open question?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40882	Thank you. Vice President Reiner's first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40883	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Dear colleagues, Selak Rasdic, so let me perhaps answer you with the facts. And I actually agree with everything you said. It is precisely what should be core business universities, so on the one hand, but the university in the defense system now operates 48 doctors of science, 12 of them elected to scientific teaching, one professor and 11 percent. The election process is under way for students eight more doctors of science who are likely to be elected by the end of this year. In addition, three more doctors of science collect documentation and will probably become docents by the end of the year. By means of the Treaty on the Functioning of the Sea, there are 10 external associates elected to the scientific, scientific teaching professions of professors or professors, and they are not employees of other universities, so it is not stealing that I say the staff of some, some of the other higher universities and universities, but rather the retired military personnel of other state bodies, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40884	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40885	I thank you for these figures and the minister mentioned the numbers. But the key question is what area of the doctor of science, so which doctor of science? We are the key military doctors of science, so in the interdisciplinary field of military defence science. It's those footage that's been ignored for 10 years, that's coming out of the system, and I'm going to remind you who's going to be coming out of the system today if we're going to follow the law on early retirement of military personnel right now when they're intellectually and scientifically the most potential, so in the 50s, retirement is predicted. We know that if you work at the university that's not the case and you need to keep those personnel. So the question is, what kind of way is it going to be if it hasn't taken care of its scientific personnel by now that we need them to get this university back to life and not leave a dead letter on paper? So it's not science doctors, it's science doctors in the area.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40886	Mrs. Devereaux. Nemet.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40887	Dear colleague Selak Rasudic, there is indeed a lot of unsaid in this law from the debates so far. I'm most concerned about this kind of uncertainty and indiscretion that's about to spill over on the decisions of our youngsters. So when we form this university, we don't know how to tell them today whether their diplomas will be valid in the EU, whether they will someday be able to start their civilian career elsewhere, and then we ask ourselves whether young people will enroll us in such universities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40888	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40889	I agree, colleague Nemet, that there are a lot of misunderstandings about this university, and I believe that many of them will have to get rid of each other in a walk. Indeed, it is one university that is currently less known to the public that is quite popular among the younger generation and even as a business environment, attractive to the wider spectrum of scientists, and because of the wages they receive and as regards the younger student population, because of the possibility of progress. I also have my own former students who are currently in officer's education, moreover, just one of my doctors is finishing this officer's course and planning to doctorate philosophy. So it's something that's of great interest to the young population but also to the scientific staff, which is why these things need to be arranged. I'll even be kind enough to say that we might be able to remove some things in walking because this is our priority, but it's not clear what we get in return if we ignore university autonomy. Is that security?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40890	Thank you. You don't have any more replicas. It's Mrs. Devereaux's turn. Katarina Peovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40891	... First of all, I'm sorry we're having a debate here without a minister, I think it would be correct for the minister to participate in this debate and that we can give him our criticisms. [[Specially enabled.]] I will say first of all that often with privileges, corruption, clientelism we talk about as some practices that happen under the table, which happen in clubs in Slovenia 9, which happen behind cameras, but we see more and more frequently here in the Parliament that clientelism and corruption are legally brought into the legal situation. We have one law here that will enable, quote another Article 1 paragraph 4 of this Act, "In the course of the procedure for the establishment of the university referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article, the provisions of the law governing quality assurance in science and high education which is regulated by the initial accreditation procedure are not applicable". We're passing a law that provides the opportunity to set up a university, not implement the law that should be applied to it. If someone came to Minister Banozic and said they should hire one of his students at the university, we would call it corruption and clientelism, but if they were 20. One law determines that a university without any accreditation procedure is established, then it's not corruption, then it's not clientelism. The other day we had the law here, the amendments to the Law on Croatian Defences, so where we have the same situation, if some Minister Bear came and told me, so please arrange for me to get some defense pension, then it would be considered corruption, but now we've brought the possibility by law that I am a minister and that it determines who has the right to defend and who doesn't. It's called legalized, systematic corruption. So here we have the question of the name of the university, "Franjo Tudjman", after hysterical reactions to the first and we saw it in the second reading, every question of the role of Franjo Tudjman in the war in BiH, the question has been raised whether, therefore, you should be careful, the University of Defence and Security, is an emphasis on calling on Franji Tudjman, given the verdict of the court, the Hague court in the case of Prlic and the second in which it says that Franjo Tudjman was a participant of the joint criminal enterprise with the aim of ethnic cleansing in BiH. I'm glad we got our first direct and unambiguous answer today to the question of whether it's true because so far we've only received hysterical reactions to the spoken truth. But we also got the answer to the question why these reactions were hysterical and why they didn't come to any, so whether this is true or not, whether we quoted the UN court's ruling correctly or not. Well, we had hysterical answers because if you were to answer that question, then you should either lie or admit the truth. Branko Bacic lied in the Parliament today because he said that Franj Tudjman The Hague court has never declared a participant in a joint criminal enterprise, that is not true. In an inadmissible verdict supported by the judicial council in the appeal proceedings, it is not and is not disputed in the court's judgment, it is said. So Branko Bačić and his party agreed to respect the Constitutional Law on Co-operation with the International Criminal Court as they have incorporated the law into the Croatian judiciary, so I will be happy to give that part of the verdict to those who dispute it and I am sorry that it is not the minister here, to read the verdict and to actually ask what the issue is to quote the UN court rulings in the Croatian Parliament. By scandalizing instead of rational argument, we come up with a situation where every public criticism and also a benign question, a serious risk to verbal, legal and real violence. And every questioning brought to the very edge of legality, we have heard here today that it's against the constitution, I haven't heard exactly that Franjo Tudjman is in the Constitution, it's a logical continuation of legalized corruption and systemically embedded inequality which HDZ affirms and promotes but now we are in a legalization situation where most of the disproved people are left out. they will not have access to universities or other institutions. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40892	The first replica, Mrs. Pryce. Selak Rasudic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40893	counterpart Peovic, you belonged at that time to the green-left bloc as the only parliamentary option that did not attend the anniversary of the Storm. This Parliament has brought a declaration of the Storm and if you are already operating through institutions then it would be for you to expect to have them and the right to criticise them, which I will agree with because we are in democracy, but also to respect their existence. As for the establishment of this university, do you know why this university is a military exception in the Science Act to control it, because I believe we can criticise what will not be autonomously that we need to understand all processes concerning the security of military science.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40894	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40895	The participation in the celebration of the Storm is completely one of its own free will, and hopefully only a understandable day's decision for each individual. Besides, as you mentioned, I was a member of a congregation club, so some decisions are being made at the club level, and I think it's real, and I don't know why it would be disqualifying someone because it wasn't marked by the Storm. The much bigger problem is that the Assembly cannot quote the UN court's verdict, that's the problem, that's hysteria, and that's unnecessary. Being on the anniversary of the Storm is a matter of personal choice for me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40896	Vice President Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40897	Dear MPs, Peovic. The second part of your exposure, I don't think I should even refer to myself because what you think of dr. Franji Tudjman is deeply wrong and deeply different from what most Croatian citizens think. However, I will refer to that when you constantly mention corruption, corruption related to initial accreditation, then you should know that initial accreditation is implemented exclusively for new study programmes. The University of Defence and Security shall be established through the merger of already accredited study programmes and in accordance with this Article. 22. Law on quality assurance in science and higher education, Art. The 28th century of this proposal, which you are talking about, which we now have before us, is prescribed that the minister in charge of higher education, for higher education within 6 months of the date of the merger of the study programmes from the article. 1st century 2nd, initiate the process of recrediting the university, So no raving, so I have to say about corruption with this has nothing to do with it. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much.]] but it's all very clear. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40898	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40899	Thank you for that question. So the current programs that are being implemented as colleagues have already explained to you in advance and before the implementations, University of Split, University of Zagreb recreditation of universities that do not yet exist is such a stunt legally that I am really surprised that you are going to defend this law at that point. It's completely unsatisfactory to recredit something that hasn't passed accreditation, and the truth is that two universities have also received university status under very suspicious circumstances. I know many examples that show that this is not correct, but we shouldn't involve it in our laws. These laws should ensure quality. Quality through accreditation means ensuring the quality of study programs is some minimum in the scientific world to call something a university.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40900	Mrs. Vesna Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40901	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues. I'm not going to look back on the second part of your exposure either because I told you all about it when I broke the Rules of Procedure. As far as this part of your exposure is concerned, in which you tried to point out that we are actually passing one law here in a way that violates two other laws, especially one, which is the one about ensuring quality in the system of science and higher education. I'll tell you again, I don't know which times and all the others, that this is about a status change of accredited programs as a legitimate process of establishing a high school that's already been applied to some universities, as much as anyone here thinks it's good or bad, it's a legitimate procedure. These programmes are already initially accredited and are not implemented by the University of Zagreb alone or in Split alone, but in cooperation with the high or military at the school of the existing Dr. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much.]] Franjo Tudjman and as such are originally accredited.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40902	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40903	First, there's no initial accreditation if you haven't established a university. So to start a university, you need to have an initial accreditation process. Secondly, the question of property rights and intellectual rights of colleagues from Split and Zagreb. So there's a series of stunts being performed here to legalize something with 20 pages as a university while others actually go through one serious accreditation process.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40904	Thank you. Mr. Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40905	Thank you very much. My colleague Peović, nothing was done in mind but in agreement with the National Council for Science, Higher Education and in line with the development of the opinion of the final bill, you could read it. You could see that they agree with such a way and clearly explain, as my colleagues told you, that they had already been accredited and that the agreement between Split and Zagreb was settled. I don't know what you're talking about today or why you're selling fog. The name of that university probably bothers you the most from your presentation.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40906	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40907	I have a problem with the accreditation process, so what someone said was okay with it means it's a problem. You actually legalize corruption, you do laws that will allow you to bypass other laws. Laws that legalize lawlessness, that's what we bring here in HS. And I'm just going to say for the end, that as one in the gesture of calling for a rational argument if you don't agree with my views, I'm going to share with the Hague court's verdict on what I was talking about, and I hope we don't have a hysterical way of arguing with political inexplicators, but we're going to stick to some factography in this sense here, and I'm going to share with you my colleagues this paper.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40908	We have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Shimičević, first.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40909	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. A colleague injures Article 238 with her public speaking wish to deceive the Croatian public because she denies what people have done in accordance with the law. So from Article 1 to Article 29, none of them are in accordance with the law. I don't understand where she consulted legal experts and where she got the courage to do it that way. deceives the Croatian public. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40910	Thank you, thank you. It would be legitimate if it were a replica, but it's not a replica. It's a replica, unfortunately, unfortunately I have to give you a warning. Mr. Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40911	Thank you, Vice President. Article 239, I object to you because at no time did you stop your colleague from talking this nonsense. Em didn't stick to the subject if we're going to be the easiest, to say the least, the other thing constantly with our own, not to defend freedom of speech, but to tear down the foundations of Croatian society, we're going to talk here that the Homeland War was civil, we want to talk about Croatian minorities that are in the area of the Republic of Croatia that are not allowed to live here? What are you gonna do? It allows.../incomprehensible/... give her some warning. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] We don't need to hysterize, just give her a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40912	Mr. Bacic, don't, thank you. The same thing as Mr. Simičević, it was a replica. And now Mrs. Peovic is also looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40913	Although I think that you should really issue a warning, you cannot say that a colleague speaks nonsense, this should not be done in the Croatian Parliament according to the Rules of Procedure in Article 238.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40914	It was also a replica of Mrs. Peovic, unfortunately this is the third and this and as far as this agenda point is concerned, unfortunately you can't speak anymore. Mrs. Zdravka Busic, please. Another violation of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Ante Bacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40915	If anyone quotes these things.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40916	And for what? For what?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40917	Article 238, if someone discredits the Homeland War, the first Croatian president, but it's bullshit. So I refrain from saying something harder. And I appeal to my colleagues here, I appeal to the middle of the Most, the Homeland Movement and the rest of the law that two things change between us that only the unholy that we are not sovereign, and here they torture and watch you. I have nothing against you, you have your five, six, seven, ten percent to speak to. who may not like this country. [[Intruder: Thank you time.]] All 5, all right, I respect that. But you can't talk here, I repeat the mildly spoken nonsense, very mildly, not to say some heavy, difficult formation. [[Intruder: Mr. Bačić.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40918	Mr. Bacic, you have a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40919	I will risk the warning, but give her a warning, so it offends you as a minority, insults the entire Croatian people, insults the foundations on why we come down here.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40920	And Mr. Bacic, you have a third violation of the Rules of Procedure, and I take away your word. I'm sorry. You know, it's the hardest thing for me to do. Mrs. Zdravka Busic, please. No, no, you can't. Your word has been taken from you, no, no, no, your word has been taken from you. [[I'm giving up, I'm giving up on the Rules of Procedure.]] And the breach of the Rules of Procedure, yes, it's the same debate. [[Well, the breach of the Rules of Procedure has nothing to do with it.]] Here you go, Mrs. Busic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40921	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I hope my debate doesn't cause this much. The founding of a university respected state secretary and assistants I would like to say a few words on this subject because really this is one I think is an extraordinary, extraordinary opportunity to say what he's been developing and how we've come to this day, today. Founding of the University of Defence and Security Dr. Franjo Tuđman was actually the last step in the peaceful transformation of the Croatian Military University into a highly educational and scientific research facility for the needs of the defence system and is in line with the strategic guidelines of the National Security Strategy and the future development of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. Such a higher education institution for military sciences, i.e. defence and strategic scientific research from the Homeland Security System, is essential for the Republic of Croatia. It is important to educate a military vessel that today can meet all the challenges facing today’s modern world. I remind you of a school or an officer's centre which you will all remember how the school was called until the beginning of 1993, from the first time it was exclusively used to perfect our military officer and honorary staff, and all of us ladies and gentlemen well know what role this officer center has played in the development of the armed force of the Republic of Croatia. War officers and dignitaries of the Homeland War without any prior military training complemented their field experiences with the necessary theoretical knowledge. After the Homeland War, the school continued to serve professional training of officers and officers through various education programmes in the honorary, officer and command headquarters and war school. In cooperation with the Croatian University Community, however, further programmes were developed and training programmes for young academically educated future HV officers first through the program as you remember it, I think it was called, and then through the study programmes of military management and engineering. The University of Defence and Security will now be fully tied to the Croatian Higher Education System. It will generate the generation of new academically educated HV officers, but also serve to perfect the frame for our entire home security system. Croatia's military school has been in the field so far and has started a long time ago, with scientific research and publishing activities, which we have witnessed here, and it is to be assumed that now, after the establishment of the University of Defence and Security, even more emphasis will be placed on them. I want to express my full support for this effort and I will give my full support to this law and the establishment of the University of Defence and Security which bears the honorary name of the founder of the modern Croatian state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40922	Thank you, too, Mrs. Devereaux. Busic, you've got replicas, ma'am. Vesna Bedeković And Mr. Shimičević is the first to apologize. [[/Simičević's Incursion from the bench:]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40923	Thank you, Vice President. Here's my dear colleague, you've told us the reasons why we need a university. I would also like to add that we are now as a member of the NATO Alliance and that we must indeed be like other countries, such as France, Germany, Poland, that we have our own university, where we will benefit from the experience of the Homeland War, educate officers and officers and be prepared for all possible threats. I don't think it's just war. I think it's all about all these troubles that push the modern world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40924	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40925	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Yes, I would agree with you. In addition, we are all, we all know well how many of our HV officers were at school in both America and other and other high-level military schools around the world and what results they had. In addition, we can be proud of how many officers and officers received compliments while they were at those military schools. I'm very much into it, and I followed them, and I read, how much, in fact, they got compliments. And besides, we all know that some of our military, military actions and study abroad at foreign military universities and universities.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40926	Thank you. Mrs. Devereaux. Vesna Bedekovic now.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40927	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, I think it is extremely important and I am very glad that you pointed out the importance of the education of Croatian soldiers and Croatian HV in the early 1990s and the time of the Homeland War, and I am very glad that you pointed out this because of the fact that further development is actually the development of the HV education system in fact just the continuation of the strategic decision of the political and military leadership of the Republic of Croatia at the head of Dr. Franjo Tudjman during the period of establishment of the HV and the period of the Homeland War. And also, it was then decided, which is very important to keep stressing, that HV will develop as an integral part of Croatian society, and that the education of HV officers will be ensured, hence their social inclusion and association with the Croatian people, as proved among other things and in all activities, especially those related to the earthquake and after the earthquake.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40928	Thank you, ma'am. Bedekovic. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40929	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's colleague Bedekovic, thank you very much, we don't have enough time for that. In addition, I have to admit that I am quite emotionally talking about this period because I was also a participant of that period and I know how HV developed and what it meant to us was that Croatian soldier who went to war in tennis shoes and went back to what we called an officer's one, that was for teaching the most, most basic actually this thing that the soldier had to know. So, thank you very much, we could talk a lot about it, hopefully we will, and I hope we remember a little bit, remember all those days and those years, and we'll talk about this differently, about this now military university or the university to the point that we've come to really can be proud and be a little bit more modest.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40930	Thank you. Mr. Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40931	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Busic, the esteemed vice president of the assembly. Well, here you have just remembered yourself in the '90s at the invitation of President Tudjman you returned to Croatia, followed from military operations, the establishment of the army, I believe that President Tudjman today would be proud of what we have such an army, which we are part of NATO, which we participate in military operations equally. You yourself talked about the education of our officers in America, and today both Storm and many of our war operations are being studied both at West Point and at many schools, we are proud that we can have a university today, that we still have a generation of officers who have conducted these operations that you know and who can also transfer those knowledge that have been operational in military science and future cadets. So I believe it's also one support, and right now this is the right time to start a university.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40932	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40933	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. I really can't agree with everyone if we could say a lot more about this, Mr. Pavic, what you said, but here we are limited in time. But it would be good for us to discuss this peacefully, rationally and in fact rationally, which means, which will now mean Croatia's state in these challenging times for the whole world, and not just for us, which will mean this Croatian university for Croatia, for the defence and for the security of the Croatian state and that without some, I would say that we get rid of all of ours, so if you want ideological approaches, we simply try to figure out what it means to us and what the Croatian soldier meant to us at the beginning. and what it's going to mean to us today or tomorrow. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40934	Thank you very much, Mrs. Busic, thank you for no more replicas. And now it's Mr. Marko Pavić's turn, and as he comes as he clears the pay phone just to say, you've noticed that I'm not giving any warning about content, it's impossible to talk about the University of Defence and Security without talking about much broader topics, for example. about war subjects, so it's very difficult to go beyond topic. I don't sanction it, I sanction it only when you abuse some institutions like that. The Institute of Infringements of the Rules of Procedure. Let me make that clear. Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40935	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here is my pleasure that today we can give and personally support to the new or final proposal of the Law on the University of Defence and Security which will bear the name of the first Croatian President Dr. Francis Tudjman. I think that all the criticisms that came from the first reading assembly, that the ministry quite respected and this bill I think is quite balanced and that it ensures on the one hand the need for homeland security, and on the other hand, as counterpart Bedekovic repeatedly emphasized, ensures both quality assurance and all standards in the system of science. So let's maybe answer a few of these latest criticisms that may have come from the opposition, the first question is how to establish or comply with the Law on Science and Higher Education. As we pointed out, the roles of the Senate and the university council have been harmonised between readings, thank you very much for adopting, we have a committee of comments, that the student representative body and that students have 15% members in the Senate. The procedure that has passed the last two universities and the University of the North and the University of Slavonski Brod, therefore there is nothing illegal, there is nothing controversial, I am congratulating the public and colleagues and at the universities of the North and Slavonski Brod. I believe that the establishment of such regional universities contributes greatly to the development of certain regions. Three areas of technical, social, interdisciplinary area were clearly defined, and perhaps one of the most discussed was the question why the military university under the Ministry of Defence. So let's look at some other examples, here I also had a personal experience that I was as a student for two weeks at Ecol Polytechnique with my student organization Best Board the European students of technology on management education. It's about the big school system, the university founded Napoleon, and today the university under the management of the French Ministry of Defence, and no one's doing any trouble about it. Personally, I'm a meteorologist, an oceanographer, and I've even thought about continuing my career at that university, having a great meteorological part, launching military meteorological satellites, which is why the university is one of the examples, and I believe that also colleagues from the Ministry of Defense have given a lot of examples of NATO countries that have similar universities. Then it was a matter of capacity, this university will never have tens of thousands of students and will have no effect at all on calling that student market in Croatia, it will always be for the needs of homeland security, perhaps beyond. The 50 doctors of science that the minister cited, but what you can see is a third record that this project has been prepared for the last eight years. I also want to thank Minister Banozic, but also the predecessor, I remember Minister Krstičević as long as I was in the government as well as all previous ministers who supported this project, and this is also seen in a way that 50 doctors of science exist, or future doctors of science, in the procedure or obtaining a doctoral degree in doctoral studies. The third thing I would point out in the last minute, it's a management-management program. Mrs. Busic also pointed out American experiences and just like the West Point Leadarship program today, if you want to be the top manager of multinational companies, you will be the easiest to get to this position if you finish the West Point leadership program that is 4 years old, at the 1st year you listen to obedience, so how to make a bed, how to clean, buckle and everything else, at the 2nd year you get a team of people you directly run, teach them that, at the 3rd year you receive indirect guidance and at the 4th year you get resources and work management. In all, I will support this establishment of this university and I believe and congratulate the ministry on this initiative.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40936	Thank you. You've got two replicas, ma'am. The coat of arms of Bujević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40937	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, State Secretary, counterpart Pavić. We all know in fact that there are specialized funds that are meant for, say, the MUP, as well as the military-security system. Given your knowledge and experience in European funds, will this university, the establishment of this university still give the possibility that the Ministry of Defence is not only the partner in the project but that this university can actually be the bearer of the project, which is not the same qualification or are you the project bearer? Just a little clarification on that, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40938	Thank you, too. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40939	Thank you very much, this very question. Well, you've just given another very important argument for the establishment of this university and these are specialized funds both in Brussels and NATO. Only defense institutes and military universities can apply to these specialised funds. So they're very restrictive in who can apply, and we'll also have, and let's not forget that this is a defence and security university, we have a system and homeland security that will be produced when and we know that the MUP will administer three new funds in the next financial period that will be able to extract funds for Homeland Security. In parallel with this, 25% of cohesion needs research and development and we know that NATO's condition is that 2% of GDP is being spent on the military, we want to have the largest domestic component and our industry that can handle it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40940	Thank you very much. Mr. Ackar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40941	Dear colleague Pavić, I commend your debate, especially from the context that you have enriched it with your personal experience that goes back to the countries that have already applied this system and where they were personally used when you spoke, when you replicated and when you had a personal exposure. However, from the context of this same story, a question arises for whom education is intended at the University of Defence and Security and we have failed to obtain it from your debate so far, so please answer that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40942	Thank you, too, the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40943	Thank you very much, dear colleague Ackhar. Well, as I said before, this university will be specialized, here are the examples of Call – Politecnica, which has a total of 300 students. So the entire university has 300 students, very small benches, specialized program, so that colleagues will be the championship will be intended for the home security system, but what I see potential and that I also to colleagues in the discussion on committees told, precisely in this development of leadership and management, even wider for citizenship and industry because just as I said, an example in the world is that the army is best developing leadership skills. We don't, there's a lot of school management, the NBA program, but a very small management system or education system that develops management skills and the military is the best example and it's very good to have our war generals who I believe will be included in the programmes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40944	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. And now it's Madam. Vesna Bedekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40945	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, here from this morning we are discussing the Proposal for a Law establishing the University of Defence and Security, a lot of it is said, as long as time allows me, I would just a few words about some key yet, here are the points that were most mentioned, wanted to say a few words of pure truth for the sake of the purely real fact of the matter. Administrative oversight, therefore, has been discussed here in some discussions of a particular colleague, that in fact administrative oversight which, of course, the work of the future university should be done by the Ministry of Defence, is not in accordance with the law, so it was tried to explain itself in different ways. I'll put it this way, so... 48. The Act on Scientific Activity and Higher Education, paragraph 4, is prescribed that higher universities for military and police education are established by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in two ways, in accordance with the conditions provided for by this law or not, or as a body of competent ministries. Art. 8th of the same law says that administrative oversight of the legality of the work of the General Acts of the High Schools referred to in paragraph 4 of that article, which is high schools for the needs of police and military, is carried out by the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Defence. And I don't see here any violation of the law, or anything that was done on purpose to bypass something because here, this university will not be founded as a structural unit of the Ministry of Defence but according to the conditions that it proposes or foresees the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education. As for initial accreditation or recreditation and the application of the Quality Insurance Act in the Higher Education System, I have already said everything several times and do not want to explain it again, I have explained the difference between initial accreditation, recreditation and once again, yes. Paragraph 4 of the proposed law, which regulates that the establishment of this university will not be subject to the provisions of initial accreditation to mean that the work of the university and that the establishment of a university will not be implemented in accordance with the Quality Insurance Act because of the fact that recredit is foreseen within 8 months, pardon within 6 months of the adoption of the programmes from the University of Zagreb and the University of Split, and we have already noted that there are signed agreements on the intention of the university to decide their Senates on the change of study holders. I'm going to stop here a little bit and say that there are agreements, there is an intention, and I can't understand why some colleagues are just referencing themselves to this in a way that they're in a position to counter something that's going to happen in the future, and they're anticipating that universities or Senate universities won't miss programs or even have the impression that they're already suggesting to the Senates of the University of Zagreb or Split that these programmes don't leave out. So, all of us here swear to our position that we support the establishment of this university, all of us, and on the other hand, some of us here find 100 possible ways and 100 possible objections that the university does not establish 100 possible objections in terms of the illegality of the whole process. I would appreciate it more if you would say very openly and clearly I am against and I am not in favour of establishing a university than in one way I am rather hypocritically supporting the establishment of this university declaratively, while the implications find a number of possible reasons for it not to be established by suggesting that everything we do by the Croatian Parliament which is the legislative body is passing the law that the Croatian Parliament itself has passed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40946	Thank you, but you have replicas. The first line is Mr. Damir Bakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40947	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. First of all, my colleague Bedekovic, I don't think you've fully quoted item 8. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education, I said in my statement that he was somewhat pietically written and that at the end of that sentence, an agreement is mentioned which then raises questions about what this Article 8, paragraph 8, forgive the reference. Let's let it go now. First of all, I owe you an apology. When I referred to your references to the establishment of two previous universities, I used the wrong verb. I shouldn't have said the law was broken, I should have said the law went around. It really wasn't my intention, and I'm really sorry about that right now. However, the question remains personal to you. Don't you, yourself and you, as chairman of the Committee on Education and Science and Culture, think that this circumvention of laws and a complete quality system leads to erosion, leads to discredition, leads to inflation In fact, our entire university system? [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40948	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40949	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, I accept your apology. I still don't think that any law is bypassed, and I don't think that the Croatian Parliament as a legislative body passing this law bypasses all the laws that it has passed so far, including the Law on Science and Higher Education and the Law on Quality Insurance, in order to establish this university. And I don't think it's erosion. I think it's about finding all possible excuses and all possible ways for this university not to be founded, and the status change of accredited programmes is a legitimate process and a legitimate option in establishing higher universities or universities, legitimate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40950	Mr. Ackar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40951	Dear colleagues, Bedekovic, I think you touched the issue points of this law in the debate. The University of Defence and Security will certainly not be part of the establishment of the Ministry of Defence or the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia but will act as a public institution, and the Ministry of Defence will implement on behalf of the Republic of Croatia the obligation of founders. It reminds me of this part of the local self-government unit where we come from large cities when we are the founders of certain primary schools, but the entire and right authority over them has the Ministry of Science and Education. I think there is a key to further clarifying who the founder is, and who, in fact, is the bearer of this project and the leader and guide in all of this which would first and foremost commend and say that in the Croatian public was welcomed as a final solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40952	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40953	Thank you very much. My dear colleague, I thank you for this matter and your findings, especially in that section, and I will confirm that he is indeed the real holder of this project, the Ministry of Defense. And taking into account all the specificities of the future University of Defence and Security, all of this must therefore be taken into account and I point out once again that the Ministry of Defence in cooperation, in cooperation, in close cooperation with the Ministry of Science and Education of the universities mentioned above, has prepared this legislative proposal. And how serious this approach was and the intention to make the university a university is indeed set up is a detailed and systematicly elaborated dynamic plan to transform this university that will not last a year, two, three, five, or 10, but until 2033, which is a long, complex and complex procedure that we all need to support.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40954	Thanks, time. Mr. Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40955	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, dear vice president of the assembly. So here's the different thesis here is trying to create frames. One is that we break some law here to establish a university, which is not true, the Law on Science and Higher Education and the Law on Quality are respected. Secondly, let thesis try to be put in place, and where is the opinion of the Ministry of Science? Here's a colleague Radolovic set it up, she wasn't in the government, she doesn't know how the government works, you were a minister, you know she can't come to the government without a positive opinion, and twice this point got a positive opinion and while she was also Minister Divjak and now Minister Fuchs. Therefore, all according to the law, the procedure is similar to what we had at the previous two universities, and it seems that people may be most concerned that this university bears the name of Franjo Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40956	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40957	Thank you very much. Dear fellow I thank you for, here's actually more commentary than question. Of course, it is a clear procedure to prepare this law, and it is a clear fact, which you and I know as former members of the government that no legislative proposal can come before parliamentary deputies, without therefore going through all possible checks, and that the Office for the Law of the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not pass, and in that context I confirm what you have said this law has passed and the Ministry of the former Minister of Justice of the Republic of Croatia has passed. The savage and ministry of the current Minister, Mr. Radovan Fuchs. And look, I'll repeat what I said at first. Apparently, some of our colleagues and colleagues are turning some rock into a shoe, so all possible ways are invented to bypass the establishment of the University of Defence and Security. But I'm saying, I'd be happier and happier if that rock showed and told the real truth and were brave in it and showed the muscles, not hypocritically bypassing.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40958	Thank you very much. Mr. Simičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40959	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear colleagues, I have read somewhere that politics is more difficult than mathematics if we are to deal seriously with it, if not then it is purely politics with, with many lies and personal insults. Here listening to this debate today, in fact, from opposition lines comes a negation for all one member of the proposed law, meaning 1 to 21, so I don't understand what experts taught them, or perhaps the ministry, the Ministry of Defence doesn't have any lawyers who read it, so they brought it into line with the law. If we know that studies are now being conducted in cooperation with the Veleučište “Dr. Franjo Tudjman," so they have accreditation, it's not establishing a new one, so they need new accreditation. And then when it is transferred to the University “Dr. Franjo Tudjman" will probably be in the structure looking for the accreditation that exists now.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40960	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40961	Thank you very much. My colleague, you've said more or less everything, so she rang me in the ears the word you mentioned, which is politics, so here by my assessment it's about politics and again I'm talking about finding all the possible ways to keep this university from being founded and that, I repeat again, a rock in a shoe and the name of a future university that offends some of our colleagues and colleagues is, I would be free here to conclude a possible basis for this kind of behavior. But I repeat, I would be more pleased and it would be more correct of them if they could get the courage to say it openly, that would be fairer, we're not for the establishment of this university than for the explicits to support, and the implications are finding all the possible ways that the university doesn't start.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40962	Thank you very much. Mr. Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40963	Dear MPs, I believe you are as safe as all of us that no one is against increasing security in our country as well as against increasing the readiness of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia. You're the chairman of the Education Committee, right, and culture, and you probably have some additional information that wasn't contained in that report you gave to the assembly, there was probably a little longer discussion, and probably not all of it in the report, so I'd like to ask you some information if it's not a problem. First, the structure defined by law, and it's not controversial, but we don't know, nor can we read about how the imaginary organization is, how many permanent employees will be, how many external associates, how many of them will be existing professors, how many new ones are not seen anywhere? Secondly, I'm asking you, since it says in there there's no financial need for something to change in the budget to explain to me how it's possible? And third, what's a qualitative leap in college effects if it's done at this university and not at an existing university?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40964	Thank you very much. Answer, ma'am. Bedekovic
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40965	I'm not sure I'll be able to answer all your questions in a minute, but I'll try. I'm going from the end, that's what I remembered. Therefore, as regards the financial effects and the need to provide financial resources for the work of the future university, the High Military School "Dr. Franjo Tudjman’ works and works, study programmes are carried out in cooperation with these two universities and all costs for paying persons who work and functioning of the existence of these study programmes are secured at the positions of the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Science and Education. In this sense, in the beginning there is no need to provide additional funding because study programmes are being implemented and now, students attend studies, so teachers are being financed and there is no need for so far to allocate additional funding to the Insect Radin: Thank you very much./... financial resources, all the rest of the contract can be given to you later.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40966	Yeah, later on for coffee. Mrs. Sanja Radolovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40967	Thank you. Here I will use it to express regret that counterpart Pavic is also no longer a minister, personally I will refer the appeal to the prime minister to take him back to the ministerial waters, obviously he cannot regret it. With regard to what we are constantly called upon to try to push through the tendency to break the laws, it should be said that the law is being broken, the law on ensuring quality in higher education is violated, and the opinion, written opinion of the Ministry of Science and Education, as well as the Agency for Science and Higher Education, has not been obtained. I will personally refer the parliamentary question very explicitly to Minister Fuchs to inform us as representatives whether he is in agreement with such a violation of the law, and I will do the same to the Science Agency, and also to the European High Education Association, and I will make it clear to all parliamentary representatives that we know whether or not we have broken the law here today.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40968	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40969	Thank you very much, dear colleague. As far as I'm concerned, write wherever you want, so ask for answers. You are a member of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture and you know that during the debate on the final proposal of this law and this law in the first reading was discussed in the presence of the Ministry of Education and Science of the Representatives and for the first time and for the second time and it is clear that this legislative proposal has been made among other things in cooperation with the Ministry of Science and Education and that the Ministry of Science and Education has a positive indication. ... My colleagues, the Committee of the Past was joined by representatives of the Ministry of Education and Science. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] As far as I'm concerned, write, look for answers wherever you want. This law has been made in a way that does not violate any law in the field of science and higher education. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40970	You don't have any more replicas, and you can continue talking to your SDP colleagues if you want to as you announced before by clearing things up, and we're moving on. And it's Mr. Josip Djakic's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40971	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President HS. My colleagues and colleagues. So before us is the Final Proposal of the Law establishing the University of Defence and Security which will certainly contribute to the achievement of all national interests and national security defined by the National Security Strategy. The very system of homeland security of this new Law establishing the University of Defence and Security will be given a strong and important role because university and lifelong programmes will be implemented for the purposes of defence and the needs of the Homeland Security System at all levels. The main direction of the education system for the needs of the Croatian army was determined during the period of the establishment of the Croatian Army in the Homeland War when it was determined that the Croatian military is developing as an integral part of Croatian society, and education of Croatian army officers will ensure their social inclusion and integration in the Croatian people. After the Homeland War, the Croatian military grew into a modern armed force that proudly defends Croatia and its national interests in the country, but also carries out the operations and missions it is assigned to global crisis areas. As we know, but it is good to remind ourselves that the development of military education began in October of '91. conduct of an officer's course in Varazdin, Zagreb, Samobor in December '91. The Croatian Army Officers' Centre was established in Zagreb in '92 and in January '93. The officers' centre becomes the Croatian Military School where a training and professionalisation programme was implemented, a model of civil military education called Kadet, which was started in 2003. and lasted until 2014. until a military programme study project was launched in collaboration with the University of Zagreb. In the need and support of further development of the military education system, the Government of the Republic of Croatia decided in September 2017 on the procedure for the establishment of graduate university studies of integrated undergraduate, graduate university studies and postgraduate studies for the needs of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. This law will ensure the implementation of basic military education for Croatian military officers at pre-graduate and graduate level, as well as the development of scientific research activities as well as the launch of study programmes of the postgraduate level, and provide them with professional social inclusion and mobility. The continuation of existing military programmes and the development of new programmes for the needs of the Homeland Security System will surely achieve an even better impact and education of personnel arising from this law. And so we came to this law which is the crown of military security education, but also the need because the National Security Strategy defines it as a strict need for Croatian soldiers in the 21st century to be the best and best quality as they have been evaluated and praised in all the missions and tasks that they have done in the NATO system or in the system of peace operations in which Croatian soldiers have acted. It is important to point out that this university will be established as well as other public universities in the Republic of Croatia, and this university will also have certain specificities and will also be subject to defence laws, while respecting the constitutional provision on university autonomy. The proposed law allows other study programmes to be implemented, existing military education programmes have enough candidates to enroll military and university studies. The Croatian Army's full military staff is secured according to the approved size and structure of the staff. The existing military education programmes in the Republic of Croatia also involve students from partner and allied countries, and university programmes show the interest of students from other countries. Since this year is the 30th anniversary of the formation of the Croatian Army, it is of particular national interest to transform the Croatian Military University into the University of Defence and Security of Dr. Franjo Tudjman. As in the Homeland War, so today, the Croatian people trust the Croatian military, and this is the greatest recognition and achievement that permanently commits to the sacrifice and commitment to a military call and it is therefore important to contribute to the development and strengthening of the skills and reputation of the HR in general. The adoption of this law will create frameworks for further development of the ability of HV to meet challenges in the future, and we see that today there are threats climate change, war conflicts, migration, cyber threats, [[/Intruder: Time. Thank you very much.]] [[Intruder: Thank you very much, Mr. Djakic.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40972	You have one replica, Vice President Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40973	Dear counterpart Djakic, although it is obvious that some colleagues are eloquent to establish such a university, especially his name. It should be recalled that, and they invent that this is not in accordance with the law, etc., it should be recalled that this transformation is in line with the strategic guidelines and the National Security Strategy and the long-term development plan of the OSRH for the period 2015-2024, which this HS decided on at its meeting on 12 December 2014. Therefore, all the stories about how illegal it is, as I do not know it is contrary to other laws and all, so this House is not irresponsibly irresponsible, I would say, that it makes any laws that would be contrary to the decisions and laws that this Parliament has also passed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40974	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40975	Thank you very much, colleague Reiner. You've established well, you've clearly read the guidelines and what the decisions of this House are. It is clear that military education must go on during, modernising and making progress, but it is clear that most of our colleagues do not mean anything, because their predecessors may have voted in this House today they deny it. It is also clear that, first of all, the concealment of their secret intentions is in the way of Dr. Franje Tudjman as the creator of the Croatian state and the man who created the armed force, defended and freed Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40976	You don't have any more replicas. Next individual debate, Mr. Rade Simičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40977	Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, viewers and viewers. Here is the Final Proposal for the Law establishing the University of Defence and Security of Dr. Franjo Tudjman. The establishment of the University is worth respect and strong support for the Croatian military in professional development. The adoption of the Law establishing the University of Defence and Security will create a framework for the establishment of the University as a higher education and scientific research institution, for the purposes of the defence system and home security system. The implementation of specialized study programmes, which meet the needs of the defence system and security system, will enable the development of an interdisciplinary field of science in the field of military and security intelligence and skills. The University of Defence and Security will enable the education of future officers and HV officers, as well as employees in other bodies whose jobs and responsibilities are related to homeland security. Do we need this from the university? Absolutely, I'll give you only some reasons. Better security of our country, because of young people who choose to be professional soldiers, the necessary need to acquire knowledge and skills to defend the free and independent state of Croatia, because we have people who have passed the Homeland War and have perfected themselves at the military universities of our friendly countries. The establishment of the University of Defence and Security, we will be ranked with other military universities such as those in France, Germany, Poland, Hungary. A country that does not have a university of defence and security should pay foreign education services to its officers and officers and why it is particularly important to establish a university, because the people of the Croatian military believe. The University of Defence and National Security after the establishment and takeover of accredited study programmes which are now being implemented for the purposes of the OSRH at the Military University of Dr. By transferring from the University of Split and Zagreb, Franjo Tuđman will be at the newly established University of Dr. Franjo Tudjman. The establishment of the University of Homeland Security System will receive strong development support as this will allow for the implementation of the university, as well as the lifelong programme of the needs of homeland security. Knowledge is power, always and forever, and investing in education is the task of this government and it is a necessary prerequisite for survival in all these strange and uncertain times. In total, 6 university studies will be conducted in 3 scientific fields and 3 scientific fields. They are a university undergraduate study Military Engineering, a university graduate study of Military Engineering, an integrated undergraduate and graduate university study of Military Maritime Affairs, a university undergraduate study of Military Management and Management, and an interdisciplinary postgraduate postgraduate study of Homeland Security. Compared to the first reading, all the articles of the law have been improved although here you can hear that nothing was actually done, I'll just mention the article here. 27 and 28 respectively,... study programmes from the University of Split and Zagreb and art. The 28th that gets closer determines the choice of rectors and that a new university should be established in a year and I see no reason not to bring this by consensus. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The state without a prepared and trained army, the same as the school without students, has no future and therefore we have and build the future on a prepared and trained Croatian army and we are building the University of "Dr. Franjo Tudjman" who will be a guarantee of freedom for all who experience Croatia as their country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40978	Thank you very much, we have a replica of the respected representative Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40979	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Members, the last term passed a Law on the Homeland Security System, which enabled better inter-resorship of the system and better inter-resorship coordination of security authorities. This pandemic, recent earthquakes, has shown how much it takes to have the whole system on alert not only in terms of machinery and equipment, but in the preparedness of the people in the system. I am sure that the university through its educational programmes will certainly improve the preparedness and raised level of education in the system to a high level. Unfortunately, our own experience in the Homeland War teaches us that national security is unconditional, how much will this experience help us at this military university?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40980	Dear Representative Šimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40981	Thank you. My colleagues, yes, we are unfortunately and fortunately, perhaps a rare country that has actually had aggression in recent history and we have had a hard, bloody Homeland War where we have paid a very expensive price but we have actually shown the enemy how powerful and how powerful and clear we are now the officer who has been through these trainings from cadets to the university and with the help of our friendly countries through which Croatian officers have gone through, we have a very good foundation where we can build the safety of our homeland and clearly, use everything we have acquired in the Homeland War. We know that various operations from the Homeland War are being studied at various universities. Because that's where our soldiers participate. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40982	The next debate will be respected MPs and vice presidents of this High House, Sabine Glasovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40983	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, respected representatives of the ministry. To begin with, this is already the third debate on the establishment of the University of Defence and National Security "Dr. Franjo Tudjman," I will remind you, the first debate on the establishment of this same university was held in the Croatian Parliament just days before the Croatian Parliament's disbandment, in that previous term. Why so hastily tried to go before the end of the term of office with such an important, serious and complex law, I don't know, but what we can see now in the space between the first and second readings, some changes have been made in this conference, so you've given up on this university to call it the civil programme directions that would in some way be competitive with existing programming directions in other universities and they wouldn't be subject to the same rules as other universities, and that's good in that direction. Secondly, what is not good is that in front of the Croatian Parliament, the running path in a row comes with an eclectic untruth. You cannot write in the bill that the observations and implementation of this law will not require any additional financial costs when it is simply not true. If we set up a new university, the assumption is that this university will have rectors, that it will have prophesies, that it will have some university advice, etc., etc. and other bodies, and it's impossible that they won't ask for special expenses. And it is not good and it is not wise to come before the Croatian Parliament with something that screams like a lie. Now let's move on. I would just like to remove here the planting and spin of a kind that spreads the right side of the assembly all day, which is that the opposition has something against the establishment of this university and then is still imputing only because it bears the name of the first Croatian president. I mean, if it's also HDZ, it's too much. I mean, I'm sorry. So, we are three times in a row in this assembly, this is the third time, we have said very clearly here that we are not against any establishment of a military university, however, we have not only said this but also proved the previous 10 years when we have worked very hard and participated in the modernisation of military education between 2011 and 2015 and the fact that the Republic of Croatia has been since '91. trying to conduct and improve military-defense education, but unfortunately, it was very unsuccessful because for a long time various diplomas that came from the Ministry of Defence circle were de facto not recognised and appreciated anywhere and 10 years ago we are going another way, we are starting to edit systems and we are starting with accreditation of civil-military educational directions. And it is moving, so the Government of Z. Milanovic is seriously affected by this and a military university agreement is signed from the University of Zagreb and the University of Split to be implemented accredited, so let's call it, military, civil-military educational directions, in order to bridge in some way and that natural disadaptation of the system of defence on the one hand and the system of higher education and science in the country on the other hand, but also to achieve the recognised acquisition of competences of such educated people because it is worth educating young people if they will not be recognized on the labour market. Now, what's left in these last five or six years. is that what has been achieved through the accreditation of these programmes together with the military school to result in the staff that could gradually tomorrow lead to this military school, with the support of the two universities in these programmes that started from, 10 years ago, now almost 10 years ago, to acquire all the assumptions that in one way we will be able to implement and how we will finance it and how we will monitor it and how we will achieve the co-existence of the Ministry of Science and Education on the one hand and the Ministry of Defence on the other hand. This bill has not yet succeeded, it has failed to reconcile this training of military national security personnel by respecting and respecting the Law of the system of higher education and science and this law has not yet been completed and we cannot support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40984	Thank you very much. We have two replicas, the first respected representative Radolovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40985	Thank you. My colleague Glasovac, you come from the education system, you were also an assistant minister, you worked in high school, what would you do to make your Labour Treaty go by force, so that you are forced to work on another institution because 50% of the contact norm hours performed on these joint study programmes are actually employees of the Faculty of Political Sciences who have spent more or less their entire working life there, so that you will decide to get it before you, to bring you before the finished act and to try your Labour Treaty, and we know the labour contracts are subject to labour rights to try to force you to move to the institution that we are establishing here today?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40986	Dear representative of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40987	Thank you, distinguished representative Radolović. I was an assistant minister, but I was not so much at home and professional in the system of higher education and science, I am more for this pre-tertial system because I know more about it, but what I do know is that I would probably react with contempt, as were the employees of the two universities with a special emphasis on the University of Zagreb, the Faculty of Political Sciences. And that's why I'm saying, this law has not yet been done to the extent that it respects not only the laws in the system of higher education and science but also the Labour Act, so we can't, by decree, military orders or cutting swords, set up something without satisfying the postulate of the university autonomy of the existing university, their intellectual property over the programs and the wishes of the employees. We can't. We can, but then it's forced and it can have long-term consequences, I'm afraid that... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40988	Thank you. The next replica of the respected representative Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40989	Thank you very much, Vice President. And my colleagues, February 5th, 2021. The National Council for Science wrote the following, the Law establishing the University of Defence and Security is in line with the requirements laid down for the establishment of laws and legal acts on, on quality assurance. I don't know why you don't trust your colleagues, those you've sworn many times, you've raised the National Science Council in heaven, you don't believe him today. This is the furthest document written about this law, it clearly speaks about what you said, what nomination was the University of One in Split and the other in Zagreb, yes, that only mentorship continues. Why didn't you read it, and why are you misreading it?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40990	The answer of the esteemed voter representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40991	Thank you very much. I read the law, and it continues to say that this university is in some way exempt from the full application of the Quality Insurance Act, which has not allowed any university until now, if it has happened in the past, has resulted in long procedures before the Constitutional Court where it has also proved that this may not be a good practice even though it has been done in one case. Secondly, we are not clear here whether the agreements with the two universities are satisfied, you remember that the only public debate on this proposal has not been held, but in the previous term where the Rector of the University of Zagreb wrote to you in a very serious way that no agreement has been reached and that no one can force his university to give up existing parts of the programme or his employees to move to another university. That's what I'm talking about, and they didn't create a prerequisite to establish a military university according to the laws in a normal way this is what's meant to be, and it's going to cost someone.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40992	Thank you very much. We have one breach of the Rules of Procedure. What's hurt?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40993	That's right, Art. 238, they're false. Unfortunately, the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development in the way it is now working, and I hope that this new election we made on Friday will make it an extremely political body driven by particular political interests, not the expert body that it should be. Honestly, their document doesn't mean much to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40994	Fellow Radolovic, of course this was not a violation of the Rules of Procedure but a replica, so you get a warning. The next debate will be the respected representative of Kresimir Ackhar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40995	Dear Vice President HS, distinguished fellow MPs. Transformation of the Croatian Military University "Dr. Franjo Tuđman" at the University of Defence and Security is a logical sequence of development of education for the needs of HV and military science. We know that the first programs of university education began in 1992. for the purposes of Croatian Air Force and developed through different models, from civil military training called ‘cadet’ since 2003. until the start of study programmes in collaboration with the University of Zagreb and Split 2014 and 2017 The launch of procedures for the adoption of the Law establishing the University of Defence and Security is understood to continue the multi-annual process of military education and military science. The process that enters the new development phase of the transformation of the Croatian Military University into the modern University of Defence and Security. This bill is worth supporting for two basic reasons. One refers to the security and defence aspects of this topic, and the other to the educational and scientific context of this area. I believe that we will all agree that Homeland security ahead and above all our priorities is a prerequisite for our civil security and safe life at all. The higher education and scientific research facility for the needs of the defence system is in line with the strategic guidelines and National Security Strategy of the Republic of Croatia, and as such enables the development of military sciences, as well as the development of international military academic cooperation and development. At the annual level of lifelong training and professional military education, about 1,400 members of HV graduates. The University of Defence and Security is designed to train future OSCE officers through it, as well as other experts in state bodies whose activity is linked to defence and national security. It is absolutely certain that the university institution will also provide greater interest and better opportunities for further education of future officers and military experts, and people are precisely the most important part of the military system, just as they are in all cases and in all systems. Since there is no institution in the Republic of Croatia dealing with scientific research in the field of military science, the University of Defence and Security will fill this space and provide a basis for the development of military sciences, and this is in direct connection with the development so far, the excellent cooperation of the Croatian defence industry and the MORH. In addition, the establishment of the University provides a better framework for equal co-operation with NATO and the EU countries that have established higher education institutions. There is an opportunity for equal participation in international projects and initiatives of defence and scientific research, since only defence institutes and military universities participate in such projects, and as partners, defence industry entities usually appear. It also opens opportunities and reports of projects to finance from various non-military EU funds in the capacity of the bearer and the majority beneficiary of the funds. The projects are mostly aimed at developing new studies of programmes, programme practices of cadets, as well as in the defence industry, but at building and equipping classrooms, laboratories and specially specialised facilities and cabinets with military equipment. In addition to all the above, it is not important that the University of Defence and Security will not require the provision of additional financial resources, infrastructure, since all funding for existing study programmes, military education and scientific research are already provided in the state budget. The military call for many is specific, demanding, interdisciplinary knowledge and certain abilities. That is why the establishment of the University is a serious step in raising the quality of military and security education. I believe we all share joy and pride when we witness the oaths of new generations of cadets and cadets. I think we can share the satisfaction of creating a legislative framework for the transformation of the Croatian Military University to the University of Defence and Security, which is certainly a matter of special national interest, it happens just in the year when we mark the 30th anniversary of the Croatian Army's organisation and it has its own symbols.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40996	Thank you very much. We have two replicas, one respected representative of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40997	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, State Secretary, colleague Ackar. I fully agree with you that the adoption of this law on the university that we're talking about today is actually a terrible big step in a lot of segments. I do, however, still have to point out once again, if you can, what can we really do like those who report the project, and now we can do that when this and the project bearers are, what does the scientific community get, and ultimately, all the rest of us? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40998	Dear Representative Ackar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u40999	Here, dear colleague Bujevic, I thank you for this replica. What's certainly important to emphasize, between the bearer and the partner, when we speak, and I've apostrophed just that in my debate, so-called. non-wary European projects are now open to participation in them as a carrier. The holder is the one who wears science, who is also a major part of the absolute resources of everything he will participate in, and many European countries that already participate in this university programme that have already confirmed that they can be for infrastructure and for all of the needs that this University carries, are much easier and much better developed precisely because they are the University, but are no longer a school or university. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41000	The next replica, Honored Representative Balic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41001	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS, dear colleague. First of all, I would like to emphasise that I absolutely support and welcome the final bill that is before us today and, of course, I agree that the establishment of this University is of particular national interest. With the establishment of the University of Defence and Security, it is indisputable, we will develop our personnel and, as it stands in the bill, work on research and development, which is certainly important for both the Croatian military and the entire economy. Since we are also at our disposal and resources from the European Defence Fund, which aims to support research and development, common capabilities in the field of security and defence, i.e. to strengthen the EU's capacity to protect its citizens and make the EU a stronger global player, I am curious how you see the role of the University in this context? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41002	Dear Representative Ackar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41003	Here, thank you. Well, on the trail of what I just replicated, I would say that exactly the non-wary EU funds that should come would be that step that we're doing against what has been present at our university so far, and they provide us with safe labs to specialize in military equipment cabinets, to develop all those military and university sciences, and we know very well that when it comes to military technology from cell phones and everything that has been presented to us today through the civil sector that has just come from the military, so that this one step makes us more modern, better, and let's be honest and safer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41004	Thank you very much. The next debate will be respected representatives of Sanja Radolovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41005	Thank you, dear Vice President. I'll start with what I thought last, but whenever the subject of EU funds is mentioned, which I usually do professionally, I feel very touched. I have already heard from my right several times at least 10 today that under the exception of obtaining EU funds and implementing projects, this university is set up because it will make it easier for them to do so. However, I must demystify this thesis and say that it is simply not true or true, because the Military School can now, as a legal person, apply uninterruptedly to EU funds and implement projects. There is a problem elsewhere, not in EU funds. The problems are next. Where are the implementation facilities? I've already mentioned you don't have administrative capacity, not even a student referendum. And where is the EU Project Management Office? Where are all these top experts who should report and implement projects? On the other hand, that is the only truth for which the current Military School has been neglected, cannot be reported for scientific projects from EU funds. But it is important that neither will the establishment of this university be able to do so immediately, because, as you know, and I suppose that you know in accordance with the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education, in accordance with the Law on Quality Insurance, which here you will not be able to avoid this university, there must be something more to be achieved, to be included in the register of scientific organisations, which are not obtained by the very establishment of a university, but rather by the initial scientific accreditation by the Agency for Science and Higher Education where the commission even comes in the field check. It determines human capacities, spatial capacity, equipment. You need to make a 5-year plan for strategic scientific research and only then will the university be able to use EU funds for scientific projects. Let's get that thesis straight. Furthermore, you're saying here we're not breaking the law. I don't know why, but I really don't trust you. You're saying everything's okay that it's not under science and higher education. But then watch miracles again. He says Article 26(4) where: "If administrative supervision of the legality of acts and work is under the Ministry of Defence, the minister responsible for higher education will initiate the re-accreditation procedure." So we are not under the authority of this university with regard to science and higher education resistors, but at one point the minister responsible for higher education will be involved by not knowing what legislation then and he will carry out the re-accreditation. One more example, then, to clarify the thesis of initial accreditation and re-accreditation. You here are constantly stating that these study programs have already been accredited. Yes, they are. But collegiate holders are now in charge of the University of Zagreb and the University of Split. They are therefore accredited with these spatial, human and financial capacities. And it is still important to emphasize, and I believe that you are also familiar with the fact that, for example, you just studied the University of Zagreb in the previous years have been recredited. Those who well know the system of science and higher education know that the process of reaccreditation usually goes in cycles of 5 years. So, you are now stating that here again it will be necessary to carry out the recredit that took place last year and that we will again spend the money of the budget taxpayers. We're not going to wait for that normal cycle that the other educational institutions have for five years, but that's where you're going to double the money in two years. I think, one more thing very unfairly that we've ignored here today, we've talked about professors, scientists, lecturers, minister of education, minister of defense, but we've neglected one by myself to say the most important thing, and these are students. You state in Article 27(4) that by joining these study programmes, students who have already been enrolled will move to a new university. I gotta tell you, a lot of the students don't agree with that. I wonder if they, like these employees whose work contracts you want to transfer, will they have the right to choose to study at the institution they have enrolled and paid for the tuition?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41006	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. He is the first respected representative of Pavic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41007	Dear MPs, here's another few loose ends that we have in the law and we have a questionnaire above our heads. There's no way we can get an answer to the questions that we've been asking here all along and the minister, and there are people who've been saying that everything's okay with the law. But I ask you, therefore, to try to explain to me that you are part of the university system because you work at the University of Pula, since you know these jobs and to explain to people who claim that everything is fine with that law the difference between initial accreditation and recredit.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41008	Dear Representative Radolovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41009	Thank you, dear fellow Pavić. Therefore, as I have already cited, initial accreditation is carried out in a quite similar manner to re-accreditation as regards documents themselves and the high school analysis itself provided to the Agency for Science, Higher Education and the Commission which has just been formed for this accreditation process, i.e. re-accreditation. However, reaccreditation is carried out under the same home university or higher education, with the same or different college holders. You must then show financial capacity, spatial capacity, you must make a detailed list of equipment and you must also deliver the college's implementation plans with what is very, very important. With the same thing, you need to fill in what is required in the Regulation and the contents of the card, you need to have over 50% coverage of your own frame from the docent to the higher. I don't see that happening here.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41010	The next replica of respected MPs and Vice President Sabine Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41011	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, RADOLovic. You mentioned this controversial transfer of the holder of the programme, intellectual property, but also certain labour rights from one university to another university and this is indeed the biggest challenge of this whole story, and we will see that it will only develop after the adoption of this law. However, there is one more thing to note, that is precisely the basis of the agreement signed in 2014. between the University of Split, the University of Zagreb with the Military School just on the basis of it, these universities have received a large number of employees who at the moment are not even asking whether they want to move to another university that is founded in this way and should also be kept in mind, that some rights have come out precisely on the basis of a cooperation agreement when new programming guidelines have been accredited and introduced into military education, I will say so, at a high level.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41012	Dear Representative Radolovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41013	I thank you for the question of honourable MPs. So if you look at it, it's not a secret document, when a public consultation that didn't happen again, although the bill went twice into the first reading, and the employees of the Faculty of Political Sciences clearly stated explicitly in detail why they don't think that they belong at that second new university, and I think we all need to stand behind it. So I must repeat again, counterpart Bedekovic cited as a clear alleged argument that because it was past the government's Office of Law that something was legal. My people, as far as we're concerned here in HS whether we voted them unanimously or not, as far as we passed the law here, so certain provisions, we had the HKO Act of the Croatian Qualifications Framework equalising professional and university studies, so here's the provision fell in the Constitutional Court. Well, it doesn't mean anything if the prime minister said so that he should also be the defence minister that he is in accordance with the law. I just can't accept that thesis.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41014	Thank you. Now we're going to have the next debate individually, and that's going to be the esteemed representative of Ante Deura. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41015	Honorable Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Surely we must support this Law on the University of Defence and Security for many reasons, for our history, for the knowledge and future of the Croatian soldier, the Croatian High Officer. This also obliges us to have a history of Croatian soldiers who are certainly honorable and this university gives one measure of strength to the entire structure through which we have been through. In difficult times, President Tudjman himself and the men who were wartime minister Gojko Sušak had a vision of that conquering Croatian officer's soldier in what way to win, as well as the knowledge of the Croatian officer, the Croatian general in the difficult situations through which the Croatian state was found. I'm sure you generals know very well, since '93, when the teachings of the basic, officer and all the others that have been going on at war schools that have come alone... which we have done extremely well where Minister Šushak played a huge role because they recognized what is important for Croatian officers, that is knowledge, education that the Croatian army really would be a part of what is going to happen today. They had already had a vision of what to do, to educate the Croatian man who went out and who brought the winning army. Today, this university, which must surely have its core power not only of defence and security, but of military security that gives the Croatian officer indeed, and Croatia as a NATO member to be a superior one who can be a proud Croatian man. Surely we must first understand what the Croatian army has been going through. I have now listed only some basic moments of education that were very necessary in the difficult moments of the creation of Croatian armed forces. When we know the process and when we're stakeholders, we know what difficult moments have passed the reconstruction, creating where a Croatian soldier from various situations from police to strong armed forces has come from. We must be aware that we had a man who was not militaryly educated, but that the people who led the then Croatian state had this vision that we have today, a strong Croatian state and a strong Croatian army that will be recognizable everywhere in the world, where we will be proud, such as the Croatian man is proud of Croatian soldiers and as a Croatian soldier today in truth is one of the most important measures in Croatian society. The University of Francis Tudjman therefore plays a special role, which is the role of respect. I know respected colleagues certainly have a lot of work to do, but allow me as the first steps were, and then they may have been a little bit surprised, and today these steps may be a little difficult, but in the future we believe they will be safe. And certainly the Croatian Military School cannot report to EU projects. Why? Because it's designed in the Ministry of Defence, but it's one process that we have ahead of us and that we all together in this HS have to give support and strength to this university to be better and more quality and safer and more educated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41016	Thank you. We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Pulak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41017	I thank the chairman. Dear colleague, here you have mentioned several times Croatian officers who and Croatian soldiers who have really had a difficult journey and have been through difficult times, our army has formed in war, during this time have started to educate and here today we can all be together proud of our soldiers and officers and indeed I would say we want to have a highly educated staff in this area. I am now asking what such a Croatian officer would do, therefore, which values are being advocated, since here in the Law on the Establishment of the University we now have an article that says "in the process of establishing a university there is no law governing quality assurance", and you spoke of the quality of "securing quality in science and higher education". And what would an officer say about that?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41018	Thank you. Dear Representative Deur.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41019	Thank you, dear MPs, for your question. Surely, first of all, quality is the foundation of our entire life, and surely, I deeply believe that the University of Osijek will have not only the quality of education but above all that it will be in people who carry, lecturers and teachers who will carry and by what this power will be recognized as what you have said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41020	The next replica of the esteemed representative, Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41021	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Deur, as a participant of the Homeland War and myself as a state official and official who has an institutional memory from the Ministry of Defence or Croatian defenders, we know how important it is that the education of Croatian soldiers is in view of the many self-inflicted and wounded by fellow combatants who have occurred due to the lack of exactly this military education. It would be good, therefore, if this law were passed by consensus, not that there was already some suspicion from the beginning that it was not in line with other legal frameworks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41022	Dear Representative Deur.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41023	Thank you, Your Honor. Surely during the Homeland War, as I said in creation and in strengthening, many things happened in a better, in a lot of emotions and what HV went through. I deeply believe that you and everyone together are interested that the Croatian officer has the best quality and the better education, that he really should be a measure as I have said so far, what he has said in our past, and it is as a member of NATO to be as respected as ever, appreciated and to be in the best form of representation of his country and his people.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41024	The next replica of respected MPs and Vice President Glasovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41025	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague, you have well said, in the Homeland War, our soldiers fought for independence, but they fought among other things probably with that desire and for freedom, freedom of speech, for the rule of law. Well, here today, we're talking about exactly that, and we're free to talk about how we don't think that we should throw away the foundation of this new university in a way that raises the question of whether or not there are certain laws being respected here. And that Croatian soldiers and all those who want to be supportive in their education have already been shown in 2014. when space was opened that, with the support of two universities, the military school would one day just improve and educate the military scientific staff in a natural and treated way, becoming a major university, but in accordance with the laws. However, since the formation of scientific personnel has failed because the lecturers did not exist in the meantime, have not progressed, and can't now set programmes, we must do this kind of violence against the laws overnight.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41026	Thank you. Dear Representative Deur.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41027	Dear MPs, so you're sure that, I believe you agree, it's one process which is long-term, in which a lot is invested, in which surely the economy must be one measure and measure of the cycles of events that will be in... And that the economy is what follows with the profession and knowledge that is the most important thing. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I believe all together that there is no need for us to differ or that we are different, it is important, because the democratic act of this Parliament is that we present different things through this diversity to make quality decisions and therefore we believe in all of our discussions that it will bring about a better place for this university to be better and better and safer and safer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41028	Thank you very much. We are now going to the final presentations, the first on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club will speak to the respected representative Vesna Bedekovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41029	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, State Secretary and Associates. I will try here at the end after almost a full day's debate and repeat that the transformation of the Croatian Military University "Dr. Franjo Tudjman" at the University of Defence and Security through the status change of accredited programmes as a legitimate process through one long-term process according to the dynamic plan and that this is a process which rests on two strategic documents, that is the National Security Strategy and the Long-term Development Plan of the Armed Forces for the period 2015-2024, and we will repeat that the adoption of this law will create one framework for the establishment of universities as first of all higher education institutions, and then scientific research institutions for the needs of the defence system and home security systems, thereby creating key conditions for further development of the capabilities of the Croatian military, homeland security and military skills systems as a science, and in particular the conditions for developing scientific research work in the area of defence. As regards the establishment of the university and this law, I repeat and stress, it is fully in line with the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education and the Law on Quality Insurance in Science and Higher Education, and I repeat the way accreditation is carried over by the holding of study programmes that are currently owned by the University of Zagreb and Split and subsequent recreditation is in line with both laws and stresses, it is in line with the Ministry of Science and Education. And I'm stressing that again. 1st century 4. which, in the final proposal of the University Law, regulates that provisions governing the initial accreditation procedure will not mean, I repeat and stress, that the establishment of a university will not be implemented in accordance with the Quality Insurance Act, given the fact that the study programmes are already accredited and in accordance with Article 4. In accordance with Article 28(4) of the proposal for this law, the re-accreditation procedure is envisaged in accordance with Article 5(4) of the Treaty. 22. A law on quality assurance in higher education. I will also remind you that this law, the bill, respects both the criteria and the conditions for the establishment of a university related to art. 54. Law on scientific activity and higher education given the fact that the Croatian Military School is currently dr. In cooperation with universities in Zagreb and Split, Franjo Tudjman conducts seven university pre-graduate and graduate programmes in three scientific fields and three scientific fields, so the field of technical sciences, social sciences and interdisciplinary fields of science with the fields that I have already highlighted and counted in my individual debate. I stress and repeat that the HDZ Club will, given that all the conditions laid down by the law are met and given the need to establish the University of Defence and Security as a high education and scientific research institution for the purposes of the defence system and the Homeland Security System, support the Final Proposal of the Law establishing the University of Defence and Security, and I also call on all other clubs and all other representatives of other clubs to support this law, and I want the University of Defence and Security to successfully transform to a full military dictionary spoken of operational capacity, according to a dynamic plan which includes a process that is long-term and long-term, which includes three four-year stages until 2033. and in this sense, I want a lot of success in the work of all employees of the current Croatian Military University, Dr. Franjo Tuđman and all those who will participate in the creation and beginning of the work of this university and in all transformational processes and I am of course proud that the Croatian University of Defence and Security will bear the name of our late President Dr. Francis Tudjman. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41030	Thank you very much. The next club of representatives is the green-left bloc on behalf of which the respected representative Damir Bakic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41031	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. Here's since this is the final exhibition on behalf of the club I'm going to try to synthesize only in the main lines of our main position. Overcoming the initial accreditation procedures is unacceptable to us, even more unacceptable to us to enroll it explicitly in the law. The fact that we've already established two universities with similar maneuvering can't be proud of us, especially there can't be an excuse for us to keep doing so. I am sorry that in this whole debate in no part of it, in any form has the Ministry of Science and Education participated, it also belongs to him in this debate. The autonomy of the university established by this law under the letter of the same law is very questionable, and this is particularly an autonomy towards the Ministry of Defence for Oversight and that supervision by the Ministry of Science and Education we are of course strong and principled exactly as we advocate for such administrative supervision of the Ministry of Science and Education in the case of the University of Zagreb in any other case. If money or funds were not needed from the budget for the implementation of this law, so it is said in the explanation, so that is too bad, that is, I would say even cynically, so the laws should not be written. Well, just for the rectors and prophesies for that rector's chain, for all the things the university makes the university not just formal. Of course, it is obvious that you will need generous funding from the budget of the Republic of Croatia both this year and all the following years. Most importantly, however, some colleagues have said that they are for the establishment of this university but some colleagues have said that some clubs are against the establishment of this university but they are uncomfortable to say so they are hiding behind the law. We are against the establishment of this university and we are against the law of course and because the law is bad. But we are primarily against this and especially this kind of establishment of this university, because we care about its study programs, and to preserve their quality and to improve their quality. Finally, we care about students both present and future. And this separation from the University of Split, University of Zagreb, this closure within itself as well as any closure leads to degradation, leads to mediocrity, leads to relativization of criteria and quality. It is obvious that it also leads to a reduction in capacity for selectivity and multidisciplinaryism. This separation academic is harmful to these student... That's why we're against it. [[You don't understand.]] And in the end, I can't look back at my colleagues and colleagues from HDZ in the ways that you've led this debate. This wasn't a merit debate, it wasn't a debate about the Homeland War, it wasn't a debate about the Croatian Army either. This was a debate on the integrity of an academic institution, on the integrity of the academic community, of the university community. And your refusal to actually face the fact that this law explicitly requires and implies a circumvention of the relevant law that regulates after the establishment of the university, your refusal to face it as well as the human resources obviously and by the minister of the recognised staff subdisciplined by this future university of yours this refusal shows one contempt for the academic community. The second face of that same contempt you showed the other day on the Committee on Education, Science and Culture when we chose the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development, and when you did not allow or discuss it, your debate today shows.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41032	Thank you very much. Next... I'm an agent. [[You don't understand.]] We have one breach of the Rules of Procedure. Dear representative Bedekovic. What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41033	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, I must reiterate that here is the truth, that the Committee on Education, Science and Culture is not allowed to discuss the moment when it was voted for by the members of the National Council for Education, Science and Technological Development, because I particularly allowed my colleagues to open the debate and deliver their opinions.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41034	Thank you very much. You know that bringing out lies is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure. And since you have two warnings, I have to give you a warning and take away your word for the rest of the debate. Dear Representative Puljak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and Glass. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41035	I thank the chairman. I'll end up going back to the beginning and saying again why our club won't support this bill and we're not afraid to say we won't support it. Not because we are against again, I will stress against perfecting our defence and security personnel, not because we are against Croatian soldiers, Croatian officers, not because we are against the higher education of our staff, but because this Law is simply bad, and all of its problems stand in one article and one item. So here we have heard from the promoters and representatives of the majority club that the law is fully in line with the Law on Quality Insurance in Science and Higher Education, and Article 1 of that Act, paragraph 4, says that it does not comply with this law. Thus, it says: “The procedure for establishing the university referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article does not apply to the provisions of the law governing quality assurance in science and higher education which is regulated by the initial accreditation procedure.” Therefore, we wrote in the law that it is not in accordance with the law which should regulate quality in science and higher education. So that fact itself, that article itself, that item itself is actually enough. We don't need to talk about anything else, talk about anything else here so that something comes out of the Croatian Parliament from the highest representative body to come out of a law like this that says that there will be no respect for the other law of relations. It's simply unacceptable and unacceptable. It's been debated here whether or not this university needs to pass initial accreditation. Study programs are accredited. They're accredited but under other conditions. I have already said this during the debate and read what requirements a new study programme must be required to carry out, which must include, a study programme elaborated in accordance with the instructions for the establishment of a study programme containing a study programme eligibility study, evidence of the appropriate space and equipment, an appropriate number of completed work contracts with scientific or teaching staff and evidence of the necessary means to carry out the activities in accordance with the Regulation. These 4 points obviously this university cannot meet, and then it does not go to initial accreditation, but it is said in six months we will be performing the recredit process. We heard here this procedure is something lighter, lighter, so it's not as strict as the initial accreditation process, and so here's what we're going to have with this third university that was founded in the same suspicious, suspicious way that is not in accordance with the Quality Act. Really sad, really big shadow on a university like this, a big shadow on the need to have officers, we have soldiers who are really quality and highly educated, but I say now they're going to have a university that's founded in a way that's not in accordance with the law, not to mention that logical entanglement, the university is founded so that the study programs are connected with a university that's not yet established. Here, try to resolve that, that logical misunderstanding and maybe think about how this law should be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41036	The next Club of Representatives is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative and Vice President Sabina Vosovac will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41037	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, once again, dear colleagues and colleagues, respected representatives of the ministry. Since fellow Radolovic is no longer present, I will say a few final sentences on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club. We will not support the Law establishing the University of Defence and Security "Dr. Franjo Tudjman", not because we do not support the fact that Croatia needs an educated, military and security chamber, but because of the path that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has decided to go to institute this university. It would be a lie to say that Croatia does not need one established system and one place where future soldiers and future employees of the security system in the Republic of Croatia will be educated. It would be a lie to say that the Republic of Croatia has not taken certain steps in the last 10 years. to establish one such system. It would be a lie to deny the fact that we are 2014. started with the cooperation of the University of Zagreb and with military school to establish some new programs that had not existed until then, which were now arranged, accredited and recognized their place under the sun after the end of the study. It would be a lie to say that we did not make an additional effort and 2018. when the Treaty of the University of Split was signed with a military, military school, when we established some other military study programmes which were also arranged, accredited and people who had completed those programmes found their place under the sun not only in the defence system but also outside of it. It would be a lie to say that all of this together did not serve as a basis and the initial idea that the military school one day naturally grew into a university, it was an intensity, it was the need of the Republic and it was the beginning of the birth of that idea. But where did we make the appointment? We scheduled that from 2014 to 2018. In this same military school which had a strong Suport, the foundation of scientific and educational accreditation of the University of Zagreb and Split was to be developed in some way by a natural and scientific teaching chamber. And whose mistake it is now that in those few years when the assumptions were created that, in fact, the biggest problem is the current scientific study frame of the Croatian Military University that should be worn by the Croatian University of Security and Defence programmes. Why did the lecturers fail to meet the necessary preconditions for advances from lecturers to professors? Why did she fail to achieve permanent accreditation of these programs at the military school? These are all questions why we do not have the answers, and therefore we have the answer in a way that precisely because we have failed to achieve this natural growth and development from a military university to a military university where the key problem is scientific teaching, teaching staff, we have heard about it today, and now we actually have orders to set up a military university overnight with some kind of ensuing order and full ignoring of the Ministry of Science and Education and the Agency for Science and Higher, Higher Education. This is not the way to go, we should have taken more time, we should have seen how to encourage these other processes because in this way we are setting up a university without giving answers to some key questions and we think we will simply attach the current institution programme of the University of Zagreb and Split, ignoring their entire university autonomy, ignoring their intellectual property, ignoring the full wishes of the employees who carry the de facto of these programs that we want to attach. So we are in favour of establishing a highly educational institution that will provide an additional stopper in establishing an educational system of security and military education, but we are not in any way in this way where instead of harmonising with the highest quality systems that we deliberately and consciously bypass them. And for that reason we will be against this law, not against the idea, but against the path that you have decided to go and which is controversial in more, in several elements that we have been talking about here all day, and among other things, the disregard of some of the laws that this HS has passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41038	The descending Club of Representatives is one of the Croatian sovereigns on behalf of whom the respected representative Željko Sačić will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41039	The Honored Chairman, State Secretarys and Secretarys, colleagues and colleagues, therefore this law seeks to establish a long-standing, vertically demanding but expected, noble idea that the war victory of the Croatian soldiers would be completely passed through all times into peacetime studies and for future generations in some way forever frame this force and this phenomenon that the Croatian soldier demonstrated in the Homeland War, to teach these experiences the future generations of Croats in the defense of their homeland and Croatian people, all of them, but also contributing to other countries, nations of the world to learn there, and we know that they are learning. We know that many of our experiences have been taught by our American friends, our friends Israelis and Russians and many others. Now where's the problem, why are we talking today with the full right that we have seen formal legal shortcomings, inconsistencies compared to our scientific community? It is precisely that in 2001 a detudmanization took place, one remembers the head of experienced real Croatian people, smart, responsible warlords, defenders who self-proved the need to perfect themselves in private management, and they were solely for political reasons disqualified by this natural process of creating pillars not only of defense of this society but of legally theoretically military scientific disciplines to continue the path and in some way to round up their own extremely rich experience of wartime command in the winning work that what has more natural than to end it in their scientific professional career this at a particular military or university in this case of defence and security. That trip was interrupted in 2001, unfortunately, and now we have what we have. We managed to catch these people in this mosaic, many are criminalized, many are out of the system long ago, many are demoted, many are sick and of course the ministry had to turn to what we have. In this sense, I support their efforts to get the best out of this Corps, and this is exactly how people are able to further perfect themselves and to be educators in the best in the brightest examples of knowledge not only but also to raise generations of our soldiers but also of all young people outside the defense system who are eager to continue their professional engagement and progress precisely at this university. Of course, we have said several remarks already on the boards, you have to draw a rich one exceptional, exceptional experience of members of the Special Police Ministry in which, in the very foundations of this society, the first to receive a blow of great Serbian aggression and have fought and very well known, and later, shoulder to shoulder under the command of the police special police department, by respecting all the elements of all legality, all military tasks by all the principles of modern military thought shoulder to shoulder, extremely successfully right now the members of the special police force are you, of whom you must hear their experiences because the reason more the Police Academy schools are different profiles of people they don't need, and it would be a crime intellectual that these knowledge, this profession, these special relationships that we have acquired over 5 years of war are forever forgotten. You're our only chance. Put those people in the program. And this university. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41040	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the promoter, the Honorable Secretary of State at the Ministry of Defence, Zdravko Jakop, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41041	Dear Vice-President, honourable parliamentary deputies and parliamentary deputies, I would first of all like to thank you for the debate. At least I've learned a lot today. So I thank you for your commendation, your suggestions, but also for your constructive criticism. One, two, and three, we'll be able to use our future work. But I'm also taking the opportunity to thank the Ministry of Science and Education because they've helped us a lot. They also helped us from the Ministry of Finance, but also from the University of Zagreb and Split to implement this final bill. I would like to stress that the Ministry of Defence is fully transparent and in accordance with the laws and rules of law and that it is also done on this final proposal of the law, meaning in the final proposal of the Law establishing the University of Defence and Security of Dr. Franjo Tudjman. Why today, why at this time, is that because we think the time has come to take that step too. We've had a chance to hear there have been more attempts, but we haven't somehow decided to try to implement this opportunity. So in the end, I urge you all once again to support this final proposal of the Law establishing the University of Defence and Security Dr. Franjo Tudjman could continue to develop as was said here by one parliamentary representative, a military education system so that tomorrow we may have the opportunity to educate our soldiers, officers, officers, generals, employees of the MARH, as well as others from our homeland security systems as well as our friends from NATO and the EU. Here's another thank you for your support, but also a call for support and assistance from all sides and tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41042	Thank you very much. I'd like to conclude the debate, and we'll vote on it when the conditions are met. Before we move on to the next point, we'd take one break to 1.15 minutes to clear the air. Please open the windows. It's 3:04 p.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 15:15 A.M.]] The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia 172. in conjunction with Art. 190. The Rules of Procedure of HS. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Labour, the pension system and the social partnership, and the Committee on Health and Social Policy. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State Majda Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41049	I thank the esteemed vice president of HS. Respected and respected MPs and MPs at HS. So today, we are facing the Final Proposal for the Law on Supplements to the Insurance Intervention Act with increased durations. What I would like to point out at the outset is that it differs in nothing from the bill's proposal and applies exclusively to the addition of four articles. What I want to mention is that the Institute is training insurance with an increase in duration and so on. a well-favoured work experience that is based on the protection of workers in particular for the health and working capacity of harmful jobs and for the protection of persons with disabilities. I remind you that we are February 5th, 2021. After having held the debate at the 6th session of HS that the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on the Statutory of Insurance with increased durations which I have said does not differ significantly from this final proposal of the Law. I would also like to emphasise that by reforming the pension system from January 2019. i.e. a 6-retirement law package, the pension system improved, and the law on the training of insurance with an increased duration which was also the benefited internship is adapted to 21st-century technologies or to the needs and conditions of the time in which we live. The Insurance Statutory Act defines three categories of insurance who have the right to so-called insurance. Benefited internships, which are under number (1), workers working on particularly difficult and for health and job capacity to harmful jobs, such as 2), are workers working in professions that require special psychophysiological functions of organisms that fall with an increase in life and as 3) these are insurance people with disabilities, and not all of them, but only those who have precisely prescribed diagnosis as stated in the law and these are the following diagnosiss: persons with dystrophy and related muscle and neuromuscular diseases, patients with paraplegia, cerebral and child paralysis, multiplesclerosis and related diseases, then blind persons, deaf persons, deaf people, people with rheumatoid arthritis and other systemic inflammatory diseases of the joints and connective tissue, persons who are not able to be used as a person without disabilities, without age. Therefore, the law defines three categories of insurance who, under precisely prescribed conditions, are recognised as an insurance undertaking with an increased duration and reduces the age limit for the recognition of old age pension. The property of persons with disabilities is determined by the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, based on the findings and opinions of the ZOSI or the Institute of Arts, Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, and is held every 12 months for insurance accounts as 15 months. That's 12 for 15. According to Croatian Employment Institute data, almost 96% of people with disabilities are persons who are employed based on working relationship and slightly more than 4% are persons who work on other business activities, including self-employment. I would also point out that according to HZZ data from the previous year, out of 33 people who used incentives for employment and measures to preserve jobs 14 have the status of people with disabilities. It should also be said that a total of 32 persons with disabilities who are registered to compulsory pension insurance as independent deposit bonds are recorded in the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute and most craftsmen, but also those who carry out their professional activity on their own. It is also important to stress that the Republic of Croatia as a member of the UN, the European Union and the Council of Europe actively promotes and protects human rights of persons with disabilities, which is also confirmed and signed by the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities of the United Nations, but also by the Faculty Protocol with the mentioned Convention. The Convention was also the basis for the adoption of the Government of the National Strategy for Equalisation of Opportunities for Persons with Disabilities, which encourages the improvement of the integration of persons with disabilities, as well as the increase of their employment and the overall position on the labour market. It should be said that an institute called the so-called Institute is actually needed. to regulate the self-employed person with disabilities in a way that is in fact equal to the person employed. Therefore, this Final Bill proposes that insurance companies with disabilities from diseases that I have recently listed benefactored not only in periods of employment and employment, but also in periods of insurance by other grounds of insurance such as professional or independent activity, crafts, agriculture, forestry, etc. i.e. when they are employed and are held every 12 months for insurance accounts as 15 months, which is an increase in internships by 3 months per year. The funds necessary for the implementation of this proposed Law are estimated at 330 thousand kuna in this year, and in the following year 400 thousand kuna, which refers to 149 persons in this 21st year and 162 persons in 2022. Following everything I have said, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes the adoption of this Act, first of all, taking into account the need for additional protection of this category of insurance companies, so persons with disabilities as well as their more active inclusion in the working environment through different forms of work, while also respecting the reason for the inclusion of persons with disabilities in the category of persons entitled to internship with increased duration and the reduction of age limits for the exercise of age pension rights. This is, above all, their difficult health condition that causes lasting consequences for life and work unlike the two other categories of insurance, which are achieved solely because of the harmful influences and nature of the job itself related to certain jobs and occupations. Therefore, we believe that it is necessary to allow people with disabilities to have an increased duration of insurance regardless of the basis on which they are provided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41050	Thank you. We've got a whole series of replicas. He is the first respected representative of Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41051	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Respected State Secretary, full support to this already final bill proposal, especially regarding the list of diseases and the record of the situation itself. I was wondering if you could briefly explain to us how the contributions themselves are just being calculated when someone is working on a job with an insurance internship with an increased duration, i.e. Does he pay the same contributions as the other workers, or has it been increased and how much has been increased? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41052	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41053	Thank you, Honorable Parliamentary Representative Bacic. Therefore, as regards contributions related to the benefits of a work internship, workers are payment bonds and additional contributions and not only the mandatory ones. Therefore, the persons with disabilities that we are now talking about for them this additional contribution to the Law on Contributions is borne by the Republic of Croatia itself, and as far as the percentages are concerned, therefore, for a person who is only an insurance provider on the basis of generational solidarity and so on. The first pillar shall be calculated for an additional contribution at a rate of 7.84% and for a person who is an insurance and pension insurance on the basis of individual capitalised savings, etc. The second pillar is 5.83%, i.e. for disabled persons, that contribution under the Law on Contributions of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41054	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed MP Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41055	... Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, I support the adoption of this law, and we see that the additions apply only to 4 articles and are exclusively related to persons with disabilities, on the other hand, the financial resources provided are not high. What does this law actually change for people with disabilities, which is improving, what do these people today legally do not have, and by the power of this law they will have? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41056	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41057	Thank you, honourable Parliamentarians Maximchuk, therefore, and today, according to the current Law of Interpretation with an increased duration of disabled persons, they have an unfavourable job experience as they work in jobs or occupations, which, for which it is envisaged, is such an internship, however, when they leave these jobs or occupations and go into professional activity or self-employed activity is precisely according to this final proposal of the law, they will be able to use the benefits of a well-favoured period of insurance with an increased duration at that time while they are self-employed.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41058	The next replica of the respected representative, Balic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41059	Thank you, dear Vice President HS. Dear Secretary of State, first of all, I would like to stress that we welcome the final draft of a law that is before us and should be equally highlighted here, as we have heard from your opening statement that the Institute is an internship with an increased duration, i.e. a well-favourable working experience, founded to protect employees' workers on particularly difficult and for health and working capacity with harmful working conditions, and to protect the insurance of persons with disabilities. This law has not changed for many years, meaning up to the full pension reform implemented in 2018, which entered into force in 2019. With this in mind, can you tell us what is changing from 2019 to 2021, respectively.? And equally, what is the procedure for a job or occupation to be covered by this bill? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41060	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41061	Thank you, Honorable Representative Balic, so as far as the procedure is concerned, some occupation would actually end in the Law of Interrogation with an increased duration, legal procedure has been prescribed. Therefore, the incentive to establish a new place of employment or occupation may be given either by the employer or by the trade union, on the basis of the expert documentation, by way of a methodology to be drawn up by the Regulation on the methodology of the production of the professional documentation to determine the insurance standing with an increased duration. The costs of making such documentation shall be borne by the applicant of that incentive, therefore either by the employer or by the trade union, and where, on the basis of the expertise developed, the eligibility of the calculation of the insurance standings with an increased duration for a specific post or occupation is established then access to further steps in the process itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41062	Thank you. The next replica of the respected representative, Karlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41063	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, you said in the opening section what will be the new number of people who will have an increased or benevolent internship, perhaps only more if we can get a wider picture of whether you might have the information now on the number of insurance companies that are in this system with increased duration of the internship, which may be the most common interest now that in modern times, however, much of the hard work has gone away somehow have taken over the machines, so if we get one image. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41064	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41065	Thank you, Parliamentarian Karlic, so according to the current situation, there are about 25,000 insurance workers working on professions and jobs to which the benefited internship applies. Of those 25,000, around 1,600 are people with disabilities. And your question about what they're dealing with after which, in this way, I understood your question, after they leave the Ben-Working system to self-employment or professional activity, then we're talking about these 30 potential persons according to HZMO data, they're dealing with our data or accounting services, accounting, candles, handicrafts, so in this spectrum we're talking activity.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41066	The next replica of the respected representative Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41067	I thank the esteemed Vice President HS, the esteemed secretary of state. The rules on the fixing of employment quotas for persons with disabilities in the individual employer also determines the number of persons with disabilities to be employed in relation to the total number of employees. And also compensation for those employers who do not respect that prescribed quota. I'm curious to know what kind of means they're using, what's their purpose, and how are they supposed to be used?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41068	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41069	Thank you, dear MP Murganić, so as far as the quota employment system is concerned, we all know very well that it was introduced in January 2015. and developed in terms of improving the situation of persons with disabilities in the labour market. We can generally say that, annually, about 200 million kunas are collected from the basics of quota employment, which are intended to encourage the employment of people with disabilities, but also for centres for professional rehabilitation. What needs to be particularly commended at this point is that there are bonds that employ and above the set quota. So there are employers who employ more people with disabilities than what is prescribed, and there are employers who are not bonds of quota employment, and yet they hire people with disabilities and they are according to our There's about 1,500 data that deserves a lot of commendation. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41070	The next replica is the respected representative of Anamarija Blažević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41071	Thank you, Chairman.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41072	I'm sorry, you're not. She's a colleague of Anamaria Blažević. [[I'm sorry, I'm sorry.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41073	You've already answered my question, I was curious to know what the number of potential self-employed users would be, so by this new law that would achieve this unfettered internship, but once I've already had the opportunity to express my great pleasure because here I have to say that there are real examples of people who have had a law in the existing guaranteed benefits of an internship under this law and then have been self-employed and lost the right to do so. So this is how we correct this injustice with these amendments to the law. I'm glad people use self-employment incentives, so they're self-employed and involved in the system of work. So, if I get it right, there's 30 people like that. Here, thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41074	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41075	Dear Representative Blažević thank you for your comment. So, the aim of this law is as we have stated that self-employed persons with disabilities have the same rights as those with disabilities who work in places with increased employment. Yes, we are currently talking about thirty-two people who have a particular trade or self-employed or professional activity. As I said most often do bookkeeping, accounting, craftsmanship, candlemaking, and so forth, and precisely because of such a small coverage is in this '21s. 300,000 kuna planned a year, and in the next 400,000 kuna, that would be so much for now.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41076	Thank you. The next is the replica of the respected representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41077	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Secretary of State, I would like to refer to the fact that you reiterated that the amendments to the six laws have implemented reforms. I'm saying it's not reform. Reform means changing access, not administratively or bureaucratically changing certain provisions or definitions. As regards this particular law in the second reading, you state that no proposal has been accepted on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Club that those who are employed or who are employed or who make or make their income under the act contract are also covered by this law. Otherwise, I commend the whole law, I think it's a good thing and it promotes the position of people with disabilities, but the fact is that many of them have one opportunity to gain income through these part-time activities, and I really don't think you've given a good explanation why we couldn't cover them too. These benefits. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41078	Respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41079	Thank you. Dear Mrs. Oreshkovic, I am sorry that you are not sufficiently addressed to the six laws that I spoke about and discussed in 2018, which took effect from 1.1.2019, because if you did, you would know very well that the outcome of these laws is that today in Croatia 27,000 women, because of the reform at that time, have a 2% higher pension per child, that today because of the amendments and addition of these laws 16,500 pensioners are also working and receiving pensions, that our pensioners have a choice of more favourable pensions which they did not have until then and that they can choose whether to retire from the first pillar or the second pillar only, so they will choose what is more favourable for them, that we have reduced the entry fees and any other fees related to the pensions. The second pension column, etc., so I refer you to these six laws to study them better. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41080	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Daniel Spijic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41081	Dear Secretary of State, what kind of reform do we have in the pension system if we get almost 50% out of taxes? It means to attract an investor, to have new jobs, to pay into retirement pillars, we have to cut taxes. And if we cut taxes now, we don't have any more to cover the pension system. So it's not a good reform. We're short. We've got a vacuum. How do you plan to do that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41082	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41083	Thank you. I will answer the numbers and results of this government, Prime Minister Plenkovic's government. What is seen and what is irrefutable is the fact that pensions in the past and this term have increased by 13.7% in total I am talking about all pensions for a million and 240 thousand pensioners. And for those pensioners who receive the lowest pensions, which is about 250,000 of our fellow citizens' pensions have grown by 17.33%. So these are the facts, these are the results. These are results back 4.5 years. What I also want to emphasise is the national compensation for older people over 65 who are entitled to 800 kuna national fees if they are in the criteria prescribed. So, older than 65, and they're not retired. Nor are the users of the ULN. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41084	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Secretary of State. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then I will open the debate and the first on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club will speak to the respected representative Daniel Spajic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41085	The Honorable Chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, respected secretary of state with a co-worker. We have already pointed out how we agree with these amendments to the law which brings forth a kind of positive discrimination against persons with disabilities by enabling the rights of the law in the future not only in cases which are exclusively linked to employment but also in other forms of pension insurance such as top-notch athletes, independent activities, craftsmen, religious officials, etc. This is also a harmonisation with the EU acquis, and the implementation requires inescapable funds of 400,000 kuna per year. However, we will not be tired of repeating that these are cosmetic changes to create an illusion of solving the wider problems facing our pension system. Only 54% of the pensions required for the first pillar are collected from contributions intended for this purpose and the rest is covered by other budget revenues. This... a series of bad consequences, first of all there are no funds for a significant increase in pensions, so the ruling coalition generously pledged a 10% increase during the term of office. That's the secretary of state you replied to me, but that's 60 kuna a year on average, which isn't enough to even monitor cost growth, not increase. Secondly, given that half and such small pensions are financed from other budgetary revenues i.e. tax, there is no room for a significant reduction in tax pressure. As a result, we are uncompetitive to entrepreneurs and investors, so there is no increase in the total number of jobs or contributors. And so we're spinning around in a vicious circle like that little house hamster. At the same time, a country that shares more than 15 billion kuna a year with only 80 million kunas encourages voluntary retirement savings while life insurance incentives have long been abolished. Over and over again, we cannot escape the unserious relationship between the ruling coalition and the key problems of society. HDZ likes to boast that they are a democratic party, but they have no problem with what Christianity considers one of the sins, lies when it comes to concealing traces of their unholy deeds. It is likely that representatives of the ruling trade coalition themselves will find this amazing, but the government is in its National Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia until 2030. I quote: "In the framework of the implementation of the current national strategic anti-corruption documents, especially after EU accession, Croatia has established the necessary legislative framework in the area of repressive action against corruption but also preventing it from responding better to the challenges and needs of practical anti-corruption action, this framework is continuously improving." This is in line with the prime minister's statement claiming to have perfect radar to detect corruption. However, if he has radar at all, obviously we are not the only ones in the DP who consider them to be old and unusable. In his latest report on the corruption perception index, Transparency placed Croatia in 63rd place along with watch for Belarus and Cuba. So is that our company? Just to remind you, the government's strategic document containing this shameful false statement as a consultant of the World Bank has produced Martina Dalic, the famous head of the Borg group, and the government only paid almost 5m euros to the World Bank, plus the additional costs of various workshops, various teams of external associates, etc. So when she was Deputy Prime Minister in charge of economic development she didn't know how to write this strategy, and then she wrote it a year later, but then she knew it as an external associate, as a reward for all of this she got the post of President of Podravka Administration. With stories like this, you don't need to wonder where we're positioned by the corruption index. And other relevant organizations are unable to get to know this hidden Plenkovic anti-corruption talent. According to the World Economic Forum, we are only 77th in the order of public institutions, and in the direction of the government's future, 105th place. Taking into account all of the above, such a country cannot be a place to develop entrepreneurship and attract investment, and without it there are no significant shifts in the quality of the pension system or the standards of our pensioners. These laws are just an alibi for making the impression that it's something. There's no real movement, unfortunately, and at this rate, there won't be any movement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41086	The next club of representatives is the green-left bloc on behalf of which the respected representative Damir Bakic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41087	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Respected secretary of state, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I welcome this law and we support it as we did in our first reading. Art. 1. extends Art. 3. the applicable law in a way that extends the circle of people with disabilities who have the right to an insurance internship with an increased duration and the right to reduce age-limit for retirement. This also extends the circle when it comes to persons who are independent bonds of payment of contributions. In short, and therefore not to be longer, we agree, we will support and we will vote in favour of this law. And while we're talking about this, let me mention two more things, especially on the way I'm going to say that I think that in some very recent opportunity it might be worth correcting Article 27(2) of the applicable Law, which is not the subject of any changes and additions this time. Article 27(2), which provides for a reduction in the age-limit for the exercise of age-retirement rights, and then that item 2 of the explicits, I quote: “If it is a post for which a 12-month period of 12 months is calculated as 14 months, the age-limit shall be reduced by one year for every 6 years. For jobs where for every 12 months the internship counts as 15 months, the age limit is reduced by one year for every 5 years." So where 12 is counted as 16, there is an age limit for each year, and finally where 18 is for 12, there is a one-year limit for every three years, I don't think that arithmetic is right and that these numbers 5, 4, 3 should read 4, 3, 2. When you look at proportions a little bit and you look at the provision that speaks of 12 for 14 then 12 for 15 should be one every 4 years, and then one every 3 years, one every 2 years, and we'll propose that change very soon. The other thing that I wanted to mention, it's not directly about this topic, it's certainly not about this law whose amendments and additions we're talking about right now, but it's about the circle of people we're talking about, and these are people with disabilities or people who can end up in a disability pension and when it comes to how a disability pension is being calculated for all those who are de facto everyone who participates in II. Then we come across some very, very serious mistake. Now you're gonna say I went far, but I didn't. We find a very serious error in the Mandatory Pension Funds Act where Article 101(1) determines that funds are transferred in the personal account of insurance undertakings to the state budget and the pension is determined as if the insurance company did not even participate in II. the pillar, but according to the Pension Insurance Act. But now it's important, but if it's a 55-year-old insurance company whose participation is in II. The pension insurance rate in the capitalised system is therefore greater than or equal to 10 years then the pension can also be determined differently from two parts, so that the insurance undertaking listed in column I belongs to a basic pension within the meaning of the Pension Insurance Act and in paragraph II. Of course... Dear Mr. Representative, now you've really gone far from the subject, I must ask you to nevertheless... [[You don't understand.]] /......... [[You don't understand.]] Okay? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you. And then retirement is determined from two parts. [[Intruder Reiner: Dapace.]] This is the first part defined as a basic pension within the meaning of the Pension Insurance Act where only one layer of pension from the 1st pillar should therefore be insisted, the Pension Insurance Act should be consulted in this respect and should insist that the definition of pensions of the combined pension from both pillars of the combined disability pension is corrected. Thank you very much. An apology if you think I'm a diversion, but I don't think so.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41088	The next club of representatives will be the HSS and HSU on behalf of which the respected representative Damir Bakic will speak. Excuse me. Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41089	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the honorable secretary of state with his associates, with an associate. Excuse me. My colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Peasant Party Club and the Croatian Retirement Party will support this bill as well as in their first reading. We believe that this good Bill proposal, which is based on or includes a circle of persons who need to achieve certain benefits, is based on the fact that their health status is violated to this extent that they cannot fully compete on the open labour market and that they need a shorter working life due to their health situation. Therefore, this law proposes a kind of positive discrimination against persons with disabilities, given that the basis for recognising the training of insurance with an increased duration and a reduction of the age limit for the exercise of age pension rights in this category is not a work on harmful and health-threatening jobs, but a health condition of persons with disabilities. So it's a step of this law into a new area and a very positive step for me. Therefore, not only where these persons are employed and secured on a pension basis, which is the case with other insurance undertakings which are subject to full-time employment, or with part-time working hours which are considered as full-time employees under general rules governing working relations and collective agreements, but also in other cases. So here the whole system opens up to other forms of employment, self-employment. They are also covered by the rights laid down in this Act, and they will be able to benefit when people are self-employed, when craftsmen or merchants are engaged, top athletes when they carry out their own activities of agriculture or forestry or carry out their own professional activity amongst others. So here we have nothing controversial, in this law they are taxingly listed in the law of specific diagnosis, certain degrees of disability, therefore, there is no confusion, and this is known to apply precisely to these people with this and that diagnosis. So I won't spend much time on what is clear that it will probably pass as in the first reading in this House of Commons unanimously, but I would say something for the end based on my personal experience. I must admit that the last 5 years have been going on, 5, 6, 7, depends, but I see this period very productive in the employment of people with disabilities, although we are not yet at the level of using those raised funds, or we are not at the level that employers employ persons with disabilities because in some way we do not have fully developed that culture of adaptation of jobs for people with disabilities, however, I have to admit one positive trend, as much as the Mrsić Law was attacked, it is good in some way, provided assistance, financial assistance and alternative solutions for work, let's say, protection workshops for the employment of persons with disabilities, for professional rehabilitation, or for many activities that are related to persons with disabilities and there is no sense that we in this House of Higher House are proposing, you did not do this, but we do what we do where they are, that where they are, that other people are teaching, that these people really enjoy a simple risk of simplediscrimination. I know this is a problem I've been dealing with since 2000, when I met with the bankruptcy of a famous company in Pula, Tekop, who's been hiring people with disabilities. I know how much we fought then to get out of what the state was supposed to charge for pension insurance, health insurance and taxes, to leave it as a founding role for Tekop Nova's protection workshop. It was in 2004 that workshop began, today lives, today is consciousness with units of local self-government, in addition to these opportunities that have given amendments and additions to the law since then, to this day, much greater, that they should in some way take care of their fellow citizens, people in their county, that, if they don't already hire them, order certain goods and services, that they sew them or do them a certain service, and it all makes sense. I hope that I will not continue for 13, 14, 15 years on such a thing, to create with citizens sensitivity in another area, which is the area of combating growing poverty in the Republic of Croatia. So, I hope warmly that, I will speak to the fatigue, but I hope that the central government, therefore the government of the Republic of Croatia, the ministry and local self-government, will give their pain in the fight against growing poverty in Croatia, I will persist here and I will propose a dozen laws which, one by one, cannot solve anything, but 10 laws that make up one mosaic to fight poverty and I will be honored if you are at the next point in the agenda and if you take part in the debate because I do not intend to attack anyone, I am not judging anyone, but I intend to make a contribution to the fight against poverty, and this is one, on a similar note, because persons with disabilities what I know, because I represent them in bankruptcy, I know their aspirations, I have been hanging with them, so it is their greatest honor to be able to do my work and their own values to prove myself to all the other members of the community, because they do not want to have the right of society that they have a good sense of employment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41090	Thank you. The next club of MPs is the SDP on behalf of whom the respected representative Ivana Posavec Krivec will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41091	I thank the esteemed vice president of HS. At the very beginning, I will say that the SDP Club welcomed and supported the adoption of the Law on Supplements to the Insurance Intervention Act with an increased duration which it held and proposed here your ministry, State Secretary, HS. It is therefore clear that despite the fact that there are no corrections or amendments to the text of the final draft law from the first to the second reading, the SDP will also support this final draft of the law. It is of great importance to us that the proposed final proposal of the law is to recognise the right to an insurance internship with an increased duration and a reduction of the age limit for the exercise of the age pension rights, regardless of the basis of which the persons are insured for pension insurance. In addition, additional conditions shall be laid down for self-intentionary payment of contributions to the right to calculate insurance standings with an increased duration and a reduction of the age limit for the recognition of age pension rights. Therefore, the commitments made by the Republic of Croatia as a party to the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities are also met, which we believe is necessary this time. We believe that the proposed amendments represent a supportive measure to achieve the rights of persons with disabilities in relation to all forms of work. The law sets out categories of persons with disabilities from the other two categories of insurance companies that can exercise law rights, which are insurance companies working on particularly difficult and for health and job-related jobs and insurance companies who carry out occupations in which, after certain years of life, the nature and severity of the work of the physiological functions of the organism also reduces to the extent that they prevent further successful performance of that job. Of course, it is clear that this is one of the legal proposals which is a kind of positive discrimination of persons with disabilities but we have always advocated such laws, we consider it to be of paramount importance for progressive society because it is the only way to ensure them equal chances. On behalf of the SDP, and this time I will point out that the life of persons with disabilities in Croatia is still relatively difficult, that there are still no legal regulations and sublegal acts that would make it easier to integrate people with disabilities into society, especially in the labour market. But all together, we are pleased that there is continuity in this policy and that measures are actually continuing on each other. We are also pleased that there are special self-employment measures for people with disabilities because they will certainly help to achieve better integration of people with disabilities into the labour market. At the same time, however, we are concerned that many employers in the Republic of Croatia still do not fulfil the obligation of quota employment of disabled persons but are more inclined to pay the amount they are set up than to employ disabled persons. Sometimes there are objective reasons for this because not all the conditions for this employment can be met, but often not so. We would love to have the possibility to further improve the possibility of a truly large number of people with disabilities who can and want to compete on the labour market and to find that job because they are otherwise integrated in society, they feel differently and it is simply very important for their complete psychophysical development. It is extremely important to be active participants and to have their positions on the labour market. As you pointed out by this law since January 2015, almost 200 million kuna is coming in at the annual level of the so-called Let us call them penalties for disrespect or for non-employment of persons with disabilities. We would like to see these over 200 million kunas really turn into concrete jobs in some way, not only of the funds that we are earning and to a lesser extent, we are actually focusing on returning to rehabilitation centres, or those jobs. We are also pleased that this law provides for the employment of persons with disabilities who care for other persons. Of course, it's always an option we want to support, but we are equally concerned by the fact that I am not referring to you this time, but generally to the government of the Republic of Croatia and the parent portfolio, so that it would be a time for a new set of laws to come before us. A set of laws that will improve the position of persons with disabilities in Croatia primarily to address the issue of the law on inclusive supplement which unfortunately is not yet a topic here in the Croatian Parliament. Unfortunately, we still don't have a clear policy in the Republic of Croatia in which institutions would integrate people with, completely integrate people with disabilities. Most often we are left to the civil sector, the work of associations, individuals, parent organisations and deinstitutionalisation often ends in that circle, in the circle and space of the civil sector. At the very end, we believe that there are several other things that may be a little bit of a rope regarding the solutions passed by this law now were not the subject of the amendments, which is why we have not discussed them further, but there are elements that suggest that our legal regulations do not fully comply with the examples of other countries or rather with the practices of other countries which often worry when we analyse the problems of our fellow citizens who face difficult, difficult compliance with the totalisation of internships in the cases of the benefits of the International Contracts, or in other countries where they must be recognised here in Croatia or vice versa for another foreign pension. As I said at the beginning, as we spoke in our first reading and as we often speak in public, the SDP Club will support this law because we believe that there are a number of quality solutions behind it, we believe that it is necessary for Croatian society and that it leads to better integration of people with disabilities on the labour market, and thus their integration into the overall social life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41092	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Ljubica Lukacic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41093	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President... Here we go again, Mr. Vice President, the respected secretary of state with a co-worker, respected colleagues and colleagues. Here's already in these several debates by clubs before me more or less said, but I'm still going to repeat some things that I don't think is a waste. Therefore, the Law on the Statutory Support with an increased duration is governed by an extended period of time system based on the objective of protecting workers as we have already had the opportunity to hear here, which work on particularly difficult and for health and work capacity for harmful jobs, or on workers who are doing occupations that require specific psychophysiological functions of organisms that fall with an increase in life. This law also provides for the right to an insurance internship with an increased duration for so-called. the third category of insurance, and these are persons with disabilities. At the moment when people with disabilities are concerned, this right can be achieved by persons suffering from dystrophy and related muscle and neuromuscular diseases, patients suffering from paraplegia, cerebral and child paralysis, multiple sclerosis and related diseases, blind, deaf and deaf, people suffering from rheumatoid arthritis and other systemic inflammatory joint and connective tissue diseases, persons who have functional disorders, and who are not able to move on their own, are already moving with the help of wheelchairs, and persons with down syndrome, so those who are entitled to a period of insurance with increased duration can be afforded due to their health conditions that cause lasting consequences for life and work, and not because of the disability of business. As I said before, the law defines three categories of insurance. For persons with disabilities an exception is therefore prescribed except that they can carry out an insurance internship with an increased duration when they are employed full-time, they can also do so when they are part-time employees and this is a newspaper in the law of 1 January 2019. Compared to persons with disabilities, the basic regulation that regulates their status in relation to the system of work and employment is the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities and we have today had a lot of opportunities to hear about it. This regulation regulates the rights of persons with disabilities to professional rehabilitation, employment and work, and regulates the employment and work of persons with disabilities in the open labour market under special conditions as well as measures to promote employment and work of persons with disabilities. People with disabilities and we have already heard this here today have reduced employment opportunities in the open labour market, and given the trend in fostering self-employment, and to the greatest extent possible to encourage inclusion in the world of work in certain systems, some adjustments have already been made that have enabled greater inclusion of persons with disabilities in the open labour market. It is good to mention here one of the great things that has been done by the government in the past term, this government has done in the past term, which is an increase in personal disability and not only an increase but also a personal disability since 2018. may also be paid when a person with disabilities receives a salary. By then, many people with disabilities would rather not work, would not work since they would lose their personal disability. These amendments to the law provide positive discrimination in order to facilitate the situation of persons with disabilities and allow for greater inclusion in the labour market, and to ensure that insurance with an increased duration and a reduction of age limits for the exercise of age pension rights is arranged in such a way that self-employed persons with disabilities are therefore persons carrying out crafts, traders, individuals of top athletes, persons carrying out independent activity, etc., in no way put in a more unfavourable position than other law users. In addition to self-employed persons with disabilities, these amendments to the law are extended to a circle of insurance companies that will be able to exercise law rights to other persons with disabilities, but regardless of insurance, such as persons with disabilities who are parents and who perform parental duties in the first year of a child's life, persons with disabilities, parents or foster parents, persons with disabilities who are on vocational training for work according to special regulations, persons who are at a professional rehabilitation, etc. As I have already mentioned earlier, this law proposes positive positive positive discrimination, all in order to enable people with disabilities to achieve benefits prescribed by law and not only in cases where they are employed and secured on a pension basis, so when they work in full, full or part-time, but also in other cases. With these additions to the law, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will say I will continue to equalise opportunities for persons with disabilities, which is in line with the National Strategy for Equalisation of opportunities for persons with disabilities as well as the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. There have been speeches here and about some other laws, I must say that all these laws in preparation have not been easy or written, let alone harmonize with all categories of people with disabilities, it is a painful job, but here I personally am glad that we are also going to the Law on Inclusive Adjectives and the Law on Personal Assistance. It is unlikely that all the problems of people with disabilities will be fully met and when we pass these laws, but we will solve a large part of the problem. However, regardless of these laws, and when we bring them here, it will always be the most important thing for every person with disabilities to do, so that he can provide his work for his own life. Working legislation is what interests people with disabilities most. Of course, before that, we have to enable them to get to their jobs, and I wouldn't particularly commend those employers who have hired more people with disabilities than they should have, so it's normal and so it should be normal. Unfortunately, he still doesn't seem to be. I expect you to The consciousness of our employers will soon change. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] And for the end of the HDZ Club support will pass this law. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41094	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives will be the MOST, on behalf of which the respected representative Marija Selak Rasdic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41095	My colleagues and colleagues, here we are now able to hear exactly the right to work is a fundamental human right. And what people with disabilities especially need and what is less pronounced in their case unwarranted in public space is that they are allowed to practice this fundamental human right. So, not privileges, not benefits, not additions, but permission to work, permission to show their abilities on the labour market, to be accepted according to their opportunities as equal entities that can exercise their labour rights. In this sense, of course, we welcome these amendments to the law and will stop by respecting the specific rights arising from the vulnerable status of disabled people. But that's not enough. This is a moment where we need to remember what else to do in order for people with disabilities to have access to the labour market because it is one thing to do what we do today, which is to talk about their labour market rights. But we forget what lies ahead, and that is their chance to find themselves on that same labour market. Once they come to the labour market, we can really edit their rights, but unfortunately their problems begin much earlier because most of them do not have the opportunity to access the labour market. In this context, it is important to recall what the Ombudsman points out for people with disabilities that there is insufficient attention in amending the legislation to introduce flexible working methods and to provide support and adaptation for open labour market work. The work of persons under protected conditions of a protective and integrated workshop is still systematically supported. What does that mean? This means that we, with disabilities, separate from everyday life. We allow them to practice their rights exclusively under special conditions. Not to make it easier for them and not for them to adjust these same conditions but to understand if we carefully read the entire lawyer's report in order to make it easier for ourselves, so that we should not meet with people with disabilities, so that we should not adapt our market and our working conditions so that they are also open to people with disabilities. I would like to remind you that the largest number of complaints about discrimination, which is growing from year to year, is precisely at work and employment. In 2019, we had as many as 21 complaints about the employment and work of people with disabilities. What's going on? So we are talking about what precedes it to regulate the rights of persons with disabilities in the labour market, the possibility of them being one of the entities in that labour market. The first difficulty facing people with disabilities concerns the right to advantage. Thus, the right to the advantages guaranteed by law in practice is not often expressed. Simplification, people with disabilities cannot access the competition in the same way as people with no disability. Therefore, if you really want to work on a positive practice where people with disabilities will be able to be hired, competitions should also be adjusted so that people with disabilities can access them. Therefore, from conversation to documentation should provide both conditions and space, but often time for them to meet these same conditions of competition. Secondly, in addition to adjusting the tender procedure, there is one worrying thing, and this is a major resistance in the state and public sector to the employment of people with disabilities. So we're talking here about what stands out as a need for a step further, which is that people with disabilities can also exercise some rights in the open labour market. But when we read the Attorney General's Report, then we see that both in those sectors, or in that public dimension, which should be sensitised for the needs of people with disabilities, we also face a strong resistance to the employment of people with disabilities. How, then, do you convince from this pay phone or in public life that any market entity should hire a disabled person when all those in the public and state sectors who are under the alleged wages guaranteed do not respect the rights of persons with disabilities, discriminate on them and do not encourage their employment? In this case, the D.A. highlights an example of a blind psychologist whose job interview was reduced to discussing his disability rather than his qualifications for doing the same job. The next thing that happens to a person with disabilities is discrimination at the workplace. Data from the Croatian Employment Institute point out that despite the fact that young people with disabilities are the most employed, they are also the most registered in the register at the age of 20 to 24. What is also a particular problem is that the largest number of people with disabilities is a long-term unemployed who loses their skills and contributes additionally to their incompetence in the open labour market for the result. So, apart from being long-term unemployed and losing skills so that they can re-access to the labour market because they are at the beginning discriminated in this approach to the labour market, they are not able to obtain an experience that is most often a prerequisite for doing more complicated jobs, and often even get any job at all. The most unemployed are precisely with intellectual difficulties, which shows that we have indeed developed the smallest sensitivity in this segment because there are various jobs that can be done. We had a very positive example of Bub Bar. So, the coffee shop, the first coffee shop that was after 3 years and after he had to run a croupering campaign so I managed to get the funds hired by a person with Down syndrome. There are a number of activities that we are not aware of at all, which can indeed be performed in quality by people with disabilities and people with intellectual difficulties, and because of our prejudices they have no opportunity to try at all in different social roles in the labour market. The problem is also self-employment of people with disabilities, because it is not implemented in practice as it should. What's also a big problem, and it's about labour markets right now, is what happens to people with disabilities, which is that they are often deprived of their business skills so that they can be placed in the institution and there they need to be handled in time and to be careful that they can't take away their work ability as something that can be used so that we can get rid of this private care for people with disabilities. I will mention one example given by the Competition Protection Agency which, in its previous report, also investigated the employment market of persons with disabilities where the initiatives it rejected, but not because they were incorrect, but because this did not fall within the domain of which it decided to report one case where applicants complained that one person as a company in which a person with disabilities is self-employed is concluded with third parties as customers of a business cooperation contract which creates the right to meet the replacement quota and is exempt from the obligation to pay a special fee. However, this company only appears to appear as a seller and lays out accounts for the goods sold, while, in the capacity of the real supplier and seller, and ultimately the acquirer of the bulky part of the cash generated by the sale of the goods directly from it, one other seller appears. So, what's going on? I am often afraid that these positive trends that we witness about self-employment of persons with disabilities and their employment statistics that we like to boast about, thinking that we have become a sensitised society in fact in those entities which, in the open market, make it more of exploiting and concealing unfair commercial practices because of certain reliefs that are right, but as a real indicator of social solidarity in achieving the rights of persons with disabilities. In that sense, we welcome these legislative changes. However, we also remind ourselves that there is much more to be done in order for people with disabilities to be full participants in the labour market.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41096	The next club of representatives will be that of the Centre and Glas, and Dalija Oreskovic, a respected representative, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41097	Thank you, Chairman. Fellow MPs and MPs. I don't think there's a lot of laws about which there's actually no dispute between the various political life participants and parties from different parts of the political spectrum in a decent civilised country, we should all be in our best interests to improve the rights of people with disabilities or diseases that don't make them equal in the competition and in the face of all life's difficulties. Therefore, we have supported this law in its vast majority, while wanting to discuss and contribute to making this law even better. In this context, I think that the motionor has completely unnecessaryly rejected a quality proposal for me. Whether he was of quality, if there was any need for him, he would show the time already when the next amendment and addition of this law was made. In fact, just to clarify, there are a large number of persons covered by this law, who are not in the status of independent activity, but who make their income on the basis of different labour contracts, have occasional part-time jobs. Some of these part-time jobs are carried out continuously, unfortunately this law will not apply to them, although their social security is incomparably less than all those we have touched through this law and that is a pity. So, first of all, it is a pity that by ruling very often they do not even consider the proposal coming from the opposition benches because it comes from the lines of opposition, no matter how good the proposal is and how useful it is to those to whom the law itself applies. And then I'm going to take a quick look at the broader subject of pension reform. So I say the word reform by me means changing direction, some tectonic solution different from what we have now, and by amending the law that some item moves mildly to one side or to the other, it does not in itself represent a reform. So we disagree in terms and disagree on how we represent the laws and changes that occur in this country. The problems of our pension system remain exactly the same after these six changes, so I believe that ruling it is needlessly commendable. And these problems are, above all, an unfavourable ratio of the number of people retired compared to employees, negative demographic trends, too many preferential and early pensions, and I don't mean early retirement, so let's just say privileged pensions for people with disabilities, and I also know what I mean and the fact that a lot of pension funds are provided directly from the state budget. So these are the problems that one government, one government leaves behind, these are problems that no government alone can solve, no matter how strong the parliamentary majority is. And what I'm constantly calling on is that these big bumps, these big problems that don't concern just one generation, they concern all of us at some point in our lives, we start to solve now. If we don't already have the conditions to solve them now, the minimum we can expect and ask for each other is that we start some kind of dialogue for these problems that won't be the way we normally run it in this assembly, which is our opposite of yours, but really one dialogue that will think about how to ensure sustainability, how not to gnaw the substance because as long as we're paying out of the state budget, and not from the fund itself, we're gnawing the substance and the standard of our citizens simply sinks. And those who are supposed to create, build, develop their potentials are aware that in terms of existing forces, they cannot provide themselves with any prosperity in this system. So much for now, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41098	Thank you. We move to individual debates and will be the first to speak to a respected representative, Nada Murganic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41099	I thank the esteemed vice president of HS. State secretaries, ministry colleagues, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Here is a law that certainly gives rise to the impression that it will have the support of all our representatives, since it fully regulates the status of people with disabilities insurance in relation to the possibility of achieving training with increased duration, but also allows for reducing the age limit for the exercise of age pension rights. It is certainly extremely important, especially if we see that the Republic of Croatia is a party to the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities in 2007. We have legally confirmed the Convention and we like to point out that the third state that has confirmed this very convention is. The Convention obliges us to recognise the natural dignity and value of every person, persons with disabilities and to provide them with equal and inalienable rights of all members of the human community, especially with an emphasis on persons with disabilities. Certainly, since then, we have indeed made some progress in treating people with disabilities from including them in all segments of society, but this is one progress, but certainly not satisfactory, there is a certain shift in policies, but from these discussions in which the support of this law has been agreed, a number of issues and problems of persons with disabilities have been raised. A man has his dignity, the most he can accomplish through work, especially if he can live from his work as well as from his own incomes, I mean here on pension, and certainly this law is one of indirect incentives and employment. The more people with disabilities really have reduced opportunities on the labour market, which is because of their disability, which is because of unadjusted working conditions, uncoordinated education with labour market needs, the less income they are also exposed to the risk of poverty. The national strategy of the government in the previous session of 2017, which speaks about equating opportunities for people with disabilities and self-employment as a form of labour activation and in doing so feels a positive trend, but we certainly do not need to overdo it in some praises but to notice that there are shifts and that we are on a good path, however, it is not enough. Member States shall ensure that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, Out of the total number of employees, all 2,800 were persons with disabilities, 4% for self-employment. The Professional Rehabilitation Act and the Standard Employment Regulation have also contributed to this, contributing once to the employment of people with disabilities. I, too, would particularly highlight the Social Care Act, which is in the 4th month 2018. One provision allowed people with disabilities who are users of personal disability, who are employed, that their personal disability is not entered and their salary is not accounted for in the case of income censorship. This was indeed very well welcomed by people with disabilities especially knowing that because of low wages and low wages and insecure jobs, very often people with disabilities hesitated whether to accept such a job or to keep what is safe, even if it was somewhat less financially, but it was one, one social compensation that is safe and coming into continuity. We have to say that because of the ageing population, we have an increasing trend in increasing the number of persons with disabilities, so these are persons with severe damages in the 3rd and 4th categories. That percentage is, that number is compared to 2014. when we had 22,000 growths now to 38,818, so our population is old and also more free and legal provisions that allow a greater number of people with disabilities to use this right with considerable and other social benefits.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41100	Thank you. We have two replicas, the first respected representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41101	Dear counterpart Murganić, as a person with extensive experience in sectors that are sensitive and for the work of people with disabilities, I am interested in how you comment on one worrying fact, which is that when we talk about hiring persons with disabilities that a major failure occurs right in the state and public sector where there is not enough sensitivity for the employment of persons with disabilities, and often their discrimination as stated by the Ombudsman for people with disabilities. Because considering that fact, it seems really difficult for me if not impossible to preach to people on the free market that they should be relieved and that they hire people with disabilities when the same entities that don't depend on the market are not able to respect their diversity at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41102	Dear representative Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41103	Dear MPs, I can comment on it the same way as you, so I cannot understand it or approve it at all, only I may find some excuse that there are no adequate jobs or working conditions in these workplaces. However, I think that the public sector should be preceded by a shift in space and it should surely be advocated to activate working assistants who would be helping people with disabilities who need assistance and during their jobs. So very often in the discussions when we also had the adoption of this very Law on Professional Rehabilitation which was talking about... employment, and I pointed this out. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41104	Thank you. The next replica of the respected representatives of Grba Bujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41105	Dear Mr. Vice President, State Secretary. My colleague Murganic, it is actually real to expect what you yourself said that this law, the proposal, will change and supplement the law that will support the consensus and that there will be nothing controversial about it. In addition, the Committee on Health and Social Care of this assembly has unanimously decided to support this proposal. What was particularly interesting to me in your debate is that you mentioned the Social Care Act that you brought up during your term of office, with 14 amendments and the addition of the law for your term of office. I think that, in this law, there are a lot of preconditions that could actually allow people with disabilities to be placed on the labour market, which I consider to be the beginning, and this just by continuing that same story.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41106	Dear representative Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41107	Here's a thank you for asking. Yes, I've been mentioned by the little cockroaches of the trigger to include the exemption of personal disability and their salary from income censorship. Unfortunately, people with disabilities are very often the most users in the social care system, and besides the personal disability use and guaranteed minimum compensation and compensation for housing costs, heating and compensation for vulnerable customers of energy and compensation for their employment as parents, the status of carers are all financial amounts and compensation for care, foreign care and assistance are all financial amounts that come from social care and which are support for persons with disabilities for the increased costs they have for their disability compared to other persons, but they are used for the cost of everyday life.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41108	Thank you. The next debate will be the respected representative of Mladen Karlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41109	Thank you, Vice President. Respected secretary of state, assistant minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a law on an insurance internship with an increased duration, a very high-quality serious law that really, perhaps, best protects all of our workers, by somehow dividing the workers to that end its protection into three categories. The first group is the ones with particularly difficult health and job-related jobs, the second are the jobs that require special psychophysiological functions of organisms that are of course lost as older as we are, the greater the age of life and the third category of insurance would be persons with disabilities where all categories of people with disabilities have been worked out correctly. Perhaps if a person wanted to understand the problems of people with disabilities a little bit better, it might not be "bad" if everyone we care about or should take care of sat down in a wheelchair and make at least a few hundred meters and then see a breath at first at least one small part of the problem and obstacles facing disabled people, and that would probably not be 10% of what a disabled person in his life and in his living environment, especially when looking for a job or trying to find a job encounters. And that's why it's very important to pass one of these laws and contribute that this life of disabled people be at least something easier, easier with an attempt to solve all problems, we certainly won't solve it by this law. In our system there are about 25,000 people who count an internship with an increased duration, which is the largest part of which I think includes truck drivers, buses, engineers, forest cutters, there are then fewer groups of pilots, cabin staff after a new one a year, two days, there are ballet employees, opera and similar means there are a number of jobs that people deal with that category. The law defines those three categories of insurance who, under precisely prescribed conditions, are recognised as an increase in duration insurance and lowers the age limit for the recognition of age pension rights. This right can only be exercised by those who are full-time employees or part-time workers who are subject to general rules governing working relations and collective agreements as full-time employment. An exception is prescribed for persons with disabilities who can do so on the basis of part-time employment. In relation to persons with disabilities, the basic regulation governing their status in relation to the system of work and employment is the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment, as well as the rights of persons with disabilities to professional rehabilitation and employment and the work of persons with disabilities in the open labour market under special conditions, as well as measures to encourage employment and work of persons with disabilities, as compared to measures to encourage employment of persons with disabilities, employees and self-employed persons are even. Since persons with disabilities have reduced employment opportunities in the open labour market, as already said, and given the trend in fostering self-employment, to the greatest extent possible, it is concluded that, in other systems stemming from the employment system, there is a need to make adjustments that will enable those persons to become more involved in the open labour market in order to facilitate their position and enable them to become more involved in the labour market, the right to an increase in insurance, the reduction of age-limit for the exercise of age-related pension rights in the pension scheme, resulting from the labour and employment system, is proposed to be regulated in a way that self-employed persons with disabilities do not put themselves in any more unfavourable position than other users of the law. The final draft law sets out the category of insurance companies from these other two groups in a way that extends their ability to exercise rights, the granting of that category is justified by... status, given that it is a circle of persons who need to achieve certain benefits based on the fact that their health status is impaired and that these measures cannot fully compete on the open labour market and that they need to have a shorter working life due to their health situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41110	Thank you. You have several replicas, the first respected representative, good afternoon, Marija Selak Raspoudić. Here you go, Mrs. Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41111	This law also applies to what you have partly talked about, which is to ensure that people who do more risky jobs are more exposed to their health while doing these jobs. It seems to me that in our society there is insufficient talk of such a type of job, and as the one headed by the Committee on Gender Equality, it is rare to point out in public that it is precisely men who suffer more at work, especially those who deal with matters that are of great health risk and to which, in this sense, this law may apply to a greater extent. In that sense, my question is, do you think that there is more to talk about the risks for men who bring these types of work and why there is not enough public dialogue about it?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41112	Thank you. Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41113	Thanks for asking. This is a very serious question that you might need to answer much better. Not this fast. But I think that this law in some way foresees against professional services or institutions that assess how dangerous work is, taking care of which jobs were male, whether a woman should be protected in some way by these benefits so far, with this modern time still making it easier for me to use various machines, devices, robots. So it seems to me that the number of jobs that have been so far have been slowly reduced.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41114	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41115	Dear colleague Karlic, I think one thought in relation to your discussion, I don't think we'd get much if all the squads sat in a wheelchair other than experience. I think a lot more can be experienced by a person with disabilities that about if he's in a wheelchair like our colleague to get down to her level, to look ourselves in the eye and talk to problems. This teaches us both bonton and in some way dealing with people with disabilities so that we respect both their expertise and their knowledge but also their current position. I think that, it would be worth always talking about, not that no one is teaching anyone a lesson, but that we all have regard for these people to act differently and that we are truly aware of these differences in the world of work because they want to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41116	Time. Thank you. Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41117	Thank you. I think I totally agree with you. This is what I wanted to say vividly because a few years ago there were already so many obstacles only in traffic that you can't get out on the street, you can't pay a simple bill then you just see how difficult life is in a wheelchair, and where other problems are here which certainly Mrs. Lukacic knows much better than we do. But that's exactly what I was going to say to put myself in that position, to go down and see how hard it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41118	Thank you very much. Next replica, respected representative Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41119	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Karlic, you don't have a bad idea testing wheelchairs for a better feeling. But I have to tell you that for better understanding of disability, I have to tell you that people with disabilities have already come up with it, and right here in the Croatian Parliament, we've tried to offer them a few politicians to sit in a wheelchair, so that at least they can try a certain diagnosis, a little dystrophy, a little paraplegia, cerebral paralysis to see how it is. The response was almost zero. What do you think about that?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41120	Thank you very much. Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41121	Thank you. It seems to me that what you said not only does not understand many people, but it is out of fear that they do not want to feel at all what these problems are and I think that this is why we have a smaller number of employees and actually involved in active society as equal members of this community.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41122	Thank you. The next replica is Branka Juričev Martinchev's esteemed representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41123	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague Karlic and I were moved by this replica when you said it would be good if we sat in a wheelchair and saw for a while how to move in that wheelchair. So here's how I have the experience of Mayor Vodice, I have to say that exactly every year the Department of Defense announces the award of praise to a project to resolve the accessibility of objects, and there can be a number of projects to report whether it's the adjustment of swimming pools or city swimming pools, entrances to the sea, the installation of elevators, etc., so every year we received funding from the Ministry of Defence, so we built a lift in the city administration, and then into the city library, and then we entered the sea. We have all the city beaches we have accessible entrances for disabled people, and even elevators. So here is this opportunity and a call to cities and municipalities to respond to such a call.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41124	Time. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41125	Thank you. Here, I completely agree with you. We're also in my town... While I was mayor we were just together in cooperation with our Association of Disabilities Bub Mara and with most disabled tried to make it easier for them, tried to find a way to solve at least a part of the problem that exists in every city, in every municipality, in fact from the street itself and to do certain jobs that would be normal for them to do. [[You don't understand.]] But here they are often obstacles.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41126	And you have another replica. Dear representative Nada Murganic. Here you go, Mrs. Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41127	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague, here we have discussed how much progress we have made since the adoption of the Convention. However, there is still prejudice towards and discrimination against persons with disabilities and in all segments of society, right. In addition to those architectural barriers we are talking about now, and they are present and unfortunately we have them in front of the ministries, we also have them in front of institutions, institutions and at local level. We have clearly those other barriers that are psychological. But it really integrates me in how and how to make as much use of the funds collected from the compensation for... employment to adapt jobs precisely to people with disabilities. [[You don't understand.]] Not to say that we also have an internal arrangement problem of going to the bathroom, access to the desk, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41128	Time. Thank you. Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41129	Thank you. Here's what I think we've actually opened up to this just another series of problems, or we've encouraged through this debate all these problems that our disabled people have and that we should actually be here like this high house all together to help solve at least one part of them if not all of them. I also thank you for these questions and for the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41130	Thank you. We are going to the next individual debate, the respected representative Marija Selak Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41131	Since this law also deals with the regulation of the rights of so-called "the law". I considered that the more risky groups on the labour market were necessary and mentioned in the replica of the fact that they rarely speak in public when we talk about the labour market. And that is that men are much more exposed to work suffering, employees in positions where health suffers, and in this sense those to whom these legal changes are brought in the first place. In fact, when we talk about labour market rights and labour market discrimination, we talk more often about women's rights and how women are coping with the labour market. But if we are really going to talk in the sex key in the labour market, then we need to accept differences on the other side as well as specificities that come with the male sex, and in that sense we are not even sufficiently sensitive to the problems that men face on the labour market where their health often suffers at risk. As for persons with disabilities, let me also have a more personal relationship because I volunteered for one period of life with people with Down syndrome and other intellectual difficulties. Far from making me some hero and some socially responsible individual and I wouldn't want to go that way at all. But what I learned at that time is finding myself among them occasionally, and not as one outside of them are views that are directed to individuals with such a type of difficulty. So people who have no intellectual difficulties are usually the ones they look at, rarely when they're the ones they're looking at. In this sense, much of our prejudices that are manifest and in the labour market are indeed coming from our ignorance and our ignorance of a different one. It's not necessarily worse. It's different, it's just different. When we talk specifically about people with Down syndrome who are also affected by these legal changes, then it should be reminded that Down syndrome is also an entire spectrum, not a single diagnosis that should also have a clear definition, and the most common discrimination of persons who have such diagnosis and who are trying to find their place on the labour market. So I mentioned this example in Vinkovci, an example of the Bug bar, which, due to its lack of legal sensitivity and all administrative difficulties, took it as long as 3 years to come from the idea to the work. Unfortunately, since this happened only in 2020 and we are currently in an epidemiological crisis is indeed a matter and it will take time to see how it will live in practice and whether it will be maintained by the potential and increased enthusiasm that was present at the beginning of the coffee shop itself. But what concerns me in particular when we talk about the rights of persons with disabilities in the labour market is the fact that these rights are not sufficiently recognised in both those segments and those sectors that do not depend on the market, those sectors that concern state and public administration while at the same time we need to document to everyone else the importance of hiring persons with disabilities. We should follow our own example so that we can show others how to treat people with disabilities. Therefore, I think that what I said on behalf of the club is really to be traced to a lot, a lot of work, and to raise awareness of everyday prejudices, but also to reduce legal obstacles in order to be able to respect people with disabilities as full members of society. In that sense, my conclusion would be if it weren't necessary and worse.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41132	Thank you very much. You have two replicas. He's the first respected representative of Silvan Hrelje. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41133	Dear colleague Maria in the culture of disagreements in the Croatian Parliament I want to contradict you because I do not think that it is only, that it is not exclusive of the male race that only they suffer and that they are exposed to severe physical pressures, harmfulities and dangers at work. Women do a lot of hard work. In fact, men adapt and bags and what they often do, women do not. Especially at the store, especially when they work 10 hours, and they get paid 8 hours and so on. And as for this second of your work, to be personally happy, there is already a culture of consent if this company in Croatia is known, the public company is declared a friendly company for people with disabilities. It would be a big step for Croatian society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41134	Thank you. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41135	Thank you. I don't think we should slave for a culture of political correctness and believe that truth is the only correction. So, as far as men and labour markets are concerned, men do suffer much more at work. If we want to talk about the imbalances that happen to women and sensitivity to them on the labour market, then we should also be open to respecting those other sexes in this case of men. The truth should not be feared, the truth is not politically correct or not correct and therefore should not suspend anyone from public dialogue if God saves himself dares speak of male rights. As for the disabled, of course, in that case we have a consensus.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41136	Thank you very much. The next replica of the respected representative Maja Grba Bujevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41137	Mr. Vice President of the Assembly. My colleague Selak Rasudiæ, in the culture of disagreements in HS, as my colleague Hrelja said, I will fully agree with your debate this time. I'm especially glad that you mentioned people with down syndrome and your experience working with them. What still bothers people with lower syndrome is a lot of going to the assessment of the remaining work capacity. It's something to talk about in this assembly, and I'm sure you'll agree with me that it's up to us to talk about. And I'm particularly glad that you remembered the shorts because yesterday was the World Day of Down Syndrome, and unfortunately on our site HS I saw that one MP, she said that colorful socks are worn because they don't distinguish the same on the leg, so here you are to deny it, that's not the day, the day of colorful socks is because different socks are known why, here.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41138	Thank you. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41139	I wasn't familiar with this case. Okay, well, to a good extent, I'm going to interpret it as someone's ignorance that can really happen to anyone. What I would like to convey as a message, it was a beautiful period of my life where I had the opportunity and time and the will to work with people with intellectual difficulties, primarily those with down syndrome. If you ask me, it's those who like to hug a lot, so that's how that cooperation looked, although it's not that simple and really down is a spectrum. People are not familiar with what that diagnosis even means. But I don't want to get into the role of someone who raises themselves in a case like this, but I want to point out that just because the spectrum is a big space for involving people with down syndrome on the labour market, society is not aware of it at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41140	Time, thank you very much. Next individual debate, respected representative Anamarija Blažević, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41141	Thank you, Vice President, honorary secretary of state with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. I have to say at first that I'm proud of maybe the first time I've worked here in the assembly because I feel like we've really become a sensitized society for people with disabilities, but there's still a lot of work and work to give people with disabilities equal opportunities. But here I am going to go back on the subject and say that I am very glad that today we are discussing better, fairer regulation, and I am putting a special emphasis on self-employed people. to craftsmen with disabilities. Namely, I would like to share with you a concrete example and a situation in my environment where I have also seen and been familiar with the conversation with individuals that the current Insurance Train Act with an increased duration needs to be amended. I have an example of a disabled person who has been diagnosed with multiple sclerosis since 2014, so it's incurable, autoimmune, neurodegerative central nervous system disease. It was mentioned at the time of the diagnosis by the employer on the basis of the Labour Treaty and was soon granted the right to an unfettered internship under the law we are discussing today and the Pension Insurance Act. Last year, it broke off the employer's employment relationship and, with the HZZ's resources, registered its trade, and everything to keep it operational to the extent that it allows. I would like to point out once again, it is a person who shares the statistical data of 4% of self-employed people with disabilities at the annual level. However, by registering crafts and the status of owners, it lost the right to an unfettered working internship, which it exercised in the course of the 6th year. That's what I was talking about when I was reporting on the work of the D.A.'s Attorney for Persons with Disabilities. I note that the person in my particular example today is nothing healthier than it was while she was exercising her legal right. The current Insurance Statutory Act with an increase in duration applies to insurance undertakings based on full-time or part-time employment, means exclusive commitment to employment, which excludes craftsmen from the application, regardless of the persons with disabilities. Such a legal solution brought the owners of craftsmen, self-employed persons with disabilities to an unfavourable legal position in relation to workers working on the basis of the Labour Treaty and violating the constitutional principle of equality before the law. The Republic of Croatia is obliged to ensure and promote the full achievement of all human rights and fundamental freedoms of persons with disabilities without any discrimination. It has also undertaken to adopt appropriate legislative, administrative and other law enforcement measures recognised by the Convention and to take appropriate measures and amendments or the abolition of existing laws, regulations, customs and practices which constitute discrimination against persons with disabilities. I believe that this final proposal for a law supplementing the Statutory Insurance Act with an increase in duration proposes a full regulation of the status of disabled insurance companies. This law primarily harmonises the basics of insurance in such a way as not to discriminate against persons with disabilities on the basis of the above mentioned insurance internship law with an increased duration and the Pension Insurance Act. Furthermore, it also addresses other issues that have not been regulated so far, and also extends the range of potential users. In addition to everything given by this law, we protect particularly vulnerable groups in our society, whose health is damaged and whose working and life span is necessarily shorter, and it is necessary wherever it is possible to improve legislation in order to make it at least a little easier for them to make life a difficult way anyway. Thank you to the Ministry. Thank you to the department team. Thank you, everyone who has contributed to these amendments to the law because injustice has been corrected. And first of all, thank you on behalf of the craftsman of disabled persons who will finally have the right to an insurance internship with an increased duration, i.e. the benefited internship.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41142	Thank you, too. Two replicas. The first is a respected representative, Marija Selak Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41143	I'm glad we have a consensus on this number of us left on one subject. I hope it can be a broader practice, so let's understand a lot of what's in the interest of our citizens is not a political issue at the level at which we often share without reason in the Parliament, so maybe we learn something from all of this, I also not just you or someone individually. How do you comment on the fact that although young people with disabilities are the most employed they are also the most registered in the record at the age of 20 to 24, 900, which is 15.1% while in the general population the most unemployed are between 55 and 59 years of age? So unlike the general population, young people do not even have the opportunity to enter the labour market at all. The general population only later has a labour market problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41144	Thank you very much. Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41145	Thank you very much. I am aware that with this example or those facts, and I must say that I am simply sorry about this situation and that more in that initial part of your replica, in this way, we will be able to get young people with disabilities to think that you said up to 20 years or so to introduce them into the world of work, and that is what I pointed out at the beginning when I said that there was a lot of work to really give people with disabilities equal opportunities. It is up to us as a society, for us here representatives or representatives of the Croatian Parliament to do everything possible to make positive changes to the law. But also one positive shift in encouraging these young people, employers to hire them, and of course, in some ways self-employment may be more accessible to them and with greater financial opportunities.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41146	Time. Thank you. Next replica, respected representative Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go, Mrs. Lukacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41147	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, I am very pleased that you mentioned this case of self-employment because it was the people who were self-employed or were planning to self-employment that met this problem of insurance with increased duration. And on their initiative, I would say the Resorb Ministry and the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute were also going to change this Act so that they would not be damaged and that a circle of persons with disabilities could be expanded in this law that would be able to achieve this right. In this way, as I said earlier, we respect the Convention, and the Strategy and all the documents that bind us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41148	Thank you. Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41149	Thank you. Here's exactly why it's an example from my community in the small town of Pacrac, but I know there's a person like that in Zadar. So I know about a series of cases, maybe not all 30, but for a lot of examples of individuals just for craftsmen, specifically craftsmen who had that problem. They confronted him, and I think it was really discriminatory of them. So for years, she was entitled to a well-favoured job internship while she was employed by a labor contract. Because of her illness, she found a different way of working. She's a really capable person, and here I welcome her because I believe she's following this debate with great interest. And now she's finally just been given back the right she's already had, so I'm very happy about these amendments to the law just because of the craftsman, because of the benefits of an internship under this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41150	Thank you very much. In this way we exhausted our participation in individual debates, and now we have to see on behalf of the Club of Representatives Mosta finally came forward for the word of the respected representative Marija Selak Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41151	Another thing that is rarely referred to in public is the fact that when we talk about domestic violence when it comes to people of older age and persons with disabilities, then there is hardly any gender difference between men and women. So when we talk about domestic violence, then women are to a greater extent a victim of domestic violence of about 2/3 of women compared to 1/3 of men, or perhaps before 3/4. But when we talk about people with disabilities, that sex plays a much smaller role. This is particularly important, since it shows how much one weakness is primarily one of the most exploited social characteristics. In people with disabilities, sex is much less important. When we talked here about how to regulate market rights of persons with disabilities and how to allow them easier access to the labour market, we may have forgotten to say one important thing that comes out of the context of this debate but shows that we live in a contradictory society and that perhaps even this democratic trend and standard to which we all bear witness in recent times where the rights of persons with disabilities are growing and so that their inclusion in the labour market will contribute, and these legal changes will soon experience their own fall, as there are more and more frequent and stronger trends that do not contribute to people with disabilities, since we live in a society that promotes excellence at all levels and especially psycho-physical excellence that goes to the extent that certain countries such as Iceland are praised that they no longer give birth to people with Down syndrome. Likewise, when we talk about Poland and the right to abortion, one of the things that most encounters public apprehension is the fact that there is a right to abortion for persons and if you discover that they are present in the prenatal diagnostics of certain chromosomal abnormalities. Not now in question of abortions as one that is complex and perhaps one that we will talk about in this House or the right to abortion. I want to ask one other question about a person with disabilities, and it says this: When has it become normal for us, or that it almost means that we will not have a child that is not perfect? When it became normal for us to use prenatal diagnostics to get rid of that burden unless it had a perfect genetic predisposition. Because it's these trends that are getting stronger and moving towards biological perfection that are talking about a real social opinion of people with disabilities. So we can have as many legal changes as we want here that are superficial and that talk about regulating the labour market for people with disabilities, and without valorizing what precedes what I was talking about on behalf of the club, which is that these people can access the labour market at all. But we need to look at society and a little wider, and we need to see what society really says to people with disabilities. We like to think of ourselves as democratically conscious individuals, we love each other especially when it's politically necessary to drill into the chest with a talk of human rights. At the same time, however, the whole society strongly supports those scientific trends that go towards the birth of only biologically perfect people while people with disabilities in this for me should no longer exist. So I think this is also a good opportunity to think again about all the social trends that have a strong impact on the development of democratic society, on the cultivation of democratic flows and on the rights of persons with disabilities. That our story is not just declarative, that we really strengthen the position of people with disabilities in practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41152	Thank you very much. On behalf of the promoter, the state secretary, Mrs Majda Buric, will finally speak. Here you go, Mrs. Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41153	Thank you, Honorable Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Honorable MPs and MPs in the Croatian Parliament. First of all, I thank you for the debate on this final bill. I just need to express my positive view about what I expect from your debate, in fact, unanimous acceptance of this final proposal of the law, and I am very pleased with that, given that all of you who participated in the debate have actually delivered such an opinion. I'm not going to look back on all the questions, just one that I find extremely important. So what is spent on 200 million kunas that we collect annually on the basis of quota employment. So we're actually talking about incentives for new jobs, for education, for the contributions of these people, for adapting a job to a person with disabilities. Also for the transport of people with disabilities. So, the Institute of Art and Employment of Persons with Disabilities and Professional Rehabilitation, the popular ZOSI, has paid more than 381 million kunas in the past four and a half years for what I have said since the pay incentives, i.e. subsidisation of contributions, job adjustments, etc. etc. It is because of such a policy towards people with disabilities in the past four and a half years that we record the growth of people with disabilities by 12.17%, so today we have an increase in the number of people with disabilities and it is about 1,1400 people, which is 1239 more than in 2016. I also need to take a special look at this previous very challenging pandemic year. There was no significant disturbance in that year, I can freely say no disturbance on the labour market in general and related to people with disabilities. So when we look back a year ago, on today we have 17,000 more employees in the Republic of Croatia than exactly a year ago. And as for the only person with disabilities here, we see a small, small increase in the number of unemployed. However, he is extremely small. It's all about two percent of people with disabilities, although when we look at it compared to 2016, then we can say that the unemployment of people with disabilities falls by more than 13%. What I must also look back on is the often mentioned Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. You yourself know that we have changed it a few years ago in 2020 and has seen a substantial change in 2018. You know very well that any business entity that has more than 20 employees has an obligation to employ at least 3% in relation to the number of disabled persons and that the vast majority of our employers or employees of persons with disabilities or fulfil one of the replacement ways of fulfilling that obligation and that 26% of the 9 and a half thousand employers are actually those who pay instead of either hiring or executing any of the replacement opportunities such as the scholarship of students with development difficulties or contract with a workshop, integrated or protective etc. And the last thing I'm going to look back at is a job-preservation measure. It has also been a year since the measure was implemented. It can be used by people with disabilities, of course. To date, some 14 billion kuna have been provided for this measure if we look at the gross amount in terms of 4000 kuna and the contributions to this. People with disabilities can, of course, consume this measure, and what we have done further is that we have made it possible for protective and integrated workshops to use this measure by 6 months 2021 to provide additional 13 million kuna for about 500 people with disabilities not on the open labour market but in protective and integrated workshops. Here it is, respected parliamentary representatives and MPs, once again I thank you for the debate and I believe that this bill, according to how you discussed it, will be truly adopted with a large, large majority if not unanimously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41154	Thank you. Your honorary secretary of state, you have one replica. Dear representative Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go, Mrs. Lukacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41155	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, I am pleased that in your presentation here, you have now decidently stated exactly how much the Office of Arts has given as disabled persons have been encouraged in this past pandemic year. So, honestly, I know very, very few people with disabilities who have lost their jobs, and they certainly weren't people in protective integration workshops. And I'm sorry that there's no colleague Selak-Raspadić here that she heard it, because it's just that it's amazing how it is, that the failed Bubamara bar she talked about the example I have to say not open labour market, but still an integral workshop, so here she heard how much they got in the last year for work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41156	Thank you. Replication response. Here you go, Mrs. Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41157	Thank you, honourable Parliamentarian Lukacic. So it should once again be pointed out that the government of Prime Minister Plenkovic is very bold and courageously behind every Croatian worker and employer. Let us remember that just the day after the devastating earthquake in Zagreb last March, a job conservation measure was implemented. In just the first two months, so in March and April of last year we included 600,000 workers and 100,000 employers, and today from this perspective we can say that we have provided around 14 billion kunas for the job conservation measure if we consider and contribute, if we exclude them. That's 9.3 billion kuna. And overall to encourage employment in the Republic of Croatia over the past four and a half years, this government has provided 18 billion kunas, which is never again in the history of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you. [[Intruder Škoro: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41158	Thank you, Your Honor, Secretary of State. You're welcome. [[Intruder Buric: Please.]] I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We are going with the next item of the agenda Final draft law amending the Law on Voluntary Health Insurance, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 34. Proposer: Silvano Hrelja The applicant is a representative of Silvano Hrelja on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent manner. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Health and Social Policy. The government delivered an opinion. Would the applicant's representative like to add an additional explanation? Dear Representative Silvano Hrelja, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41161	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I would like to thank the boards of the Croatian Parliament for having decided within the appropriate deadline on this bill and having come to the debate and I think that should be the case with all the laws, whether they are opposition or criticise or not. Well done. I think that's one commendable position for us and our work. So let's go to concrete. Every bill of law is a demand. When you propose to amend and supplement the law, you ask for it. You're looking for a change for the better, you're looking for more life in the law, you're looking for justice, but you're looking for resources because every change costs money. When I ask for a change in family pensions from the government, you're asking too much. When I ask for a change in censorships for free extra insurance, they say from the government -- and that's too much, and they say from the pensioners -- you're asking for too little. The lesson I'm getting out of this is let the village comment, let the village talk, the job waits. I just have to look. It's my job, it's my knowledge of pensioners' problems primarily, but also of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. If I'd looked out for every rock on the road, I'd never have moved out of place. In the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Voluntary Health Insurance, I seek, which I ask, very simply to extend the circle of people who will be paid by the State budget of the supplemental health insurance policy. I ask for free supplementary health insurance for the poorest citizens of the Republic of Croatia. It's not a whim. Taking care of the poorest citizens of the Republic of Croatia was built in that care was embedded in the Anti-poverty Strategy, which was brought in Croatia in 2017. So it's our duty and no one's whim. The motivation for that is double. First, to encourage and commit the state, a system to adhere to the criteria set in the way a man keeps his word. Secondly, motivation is very intense because it must enable so we must allow the poorest in Croatia to have more meat and fruit on the menu. Yeah, sometimes you have to present things and appearances like that. It's true that the poorest have more meat and fruit on the menu. We are talking here about the poorest citizens who don't eat as much as they should and what they should, because their low incomes can't cope with cost growth and fixed burdens. When I think about changes and suggestions, I think about the sustainability of the system, but also about people's lives. We can't just talk about this budget doesn't put up with it, not thinking about how people live. I'm thinking about their everyday lives, their struggles, their fears, their patiences, their Sunday lunches, so maybe I'm your colleagues and colleagues, since I've spent a lot of time behind this pay phone, but that's why I'm not giving up, because I know that's how it is, and I know it's justified. So the criteria. The criteria for something. To mention the criteria set by the state is censorship. Census of the Latin word, the Latin word means appraisal. An assessment of the value of Greek Polis citizens' assets, and then of Roman citizens who were conducted under the supervision of assessors, censors. Based on the established property situation, citizens are classified in tax classes on which their right to vote in the congregations and their military obligations depended. As much as you've got worth. Although today in theory it is not so and in social states it must not be so countless evidence that it is in practice. What's interesting to us from the history of censorship is that such a regulation of property was carried out every five years. Census and those of ancient Rome and these of ours should be refreshed every so much that the data is relevant. Census do not meet their purpose if they do not adapt to changes in prices, wages, cost of life. Census is a border set to ensure that socially endangered citizens do not lose constitutional and human rights to access to health care. This is primarily about the availability of health care and the right to that availability. In 2004, census was placed on a single man in 1939, and for a household member at 1516 kuna. This way the census has not changed for 16 years. Last year, the government of the Republic of Croatia ignored a petition from the Croatian pensioners with more than 50,000 signatures, skipped the draft law in the procedure and agreed to an increase of 47 and 61 kuna, respectively, in agreement with pensioners. Last year we asked for an increase of more than 400 kuna. This better than no charity was shared with the blessing of caring associations 3 months before the election. We are again forwarding the bill's proposal with re-adjusted censorships. From 2004 to 2020, gross wages increased by 50.24%, while income censorship remained virtually unchanged or slightly increased before last year's elections. I suggest that the income censorship be increased from 1600 kunas now after one alignment to 2000 kuna for a household member and from 2047 kuna to 2500 kuna for a single man, which is relatively close to the poverty line across Eurostat in the Republic of Croatia. This is an increase of 25% compared to the current censorship and half of the increase in the average gross salary in the Republic of Croatia for the period 2004 to 2020. It's compromising, not destructive, reasonable, not populist. And what do we do about it? This solves the case of one that you have in the Bill's proposal and I quote it from the Bill's proposal: "In a multi-member low-income family due to the increase in the minimum wage of several tens or one hundred kunas due to the low-income censorships may be for a thousand kunas a year, but their family obligations are increasing because they have to pay additional health insurance for more members in the amount of 840 kuna per year." In the case of single pensioners, if someone has exceeded the amount of 2000 kuna due to now 2047 kuna due to the coordination of pensions or for receiving assistance from the city budget, municipality or county, it happens that the pensioner who receives 2050 kuna is receiving some 60 kuna per year, while at the same time having to pay 840 kuna of supplementary health insurance. It is unfortunate that pensioners with such low incomes when they pay HRTs subscription or connection to the world of 960 kuna, because there is 80 kuna monthly and additional health insurance 840 kuna per year for the availability of healthcare practically live with 11 pensions per year. Case three. A retirement couple lives on a pension of 3000 kuna and is paid by the state additional health insurance because they have 1500 kuna monthly income per person. In the event of the death of the insurance provider, the spouse is entitled to 70% of the deceased’s pension, which means that in the future he will receive 2100 kuna pensions, which means that he will have to pay additional health insurance and have an additional cost of 840 kuna per year while all his life expenses remain the same. It is also proposed that our Bill No. 34 increase the income price from January 1st and from July 1st each calendar year in the same way as the current value of the pension under the Pension Insurance Act, not as so far as it is put in relation to the rate of change in the average consumer price index in the previous year compared to the year preceding the change in the average gross salary rate of all employees in the Republic of Croatia in the previous year compared to the year that precedes it, it makes a very complicated statement somewhere in the current year. For example, in November 2020. The Governing Council of the HZZO adopted a decision on the harmonisation of censorships of revenues for 2021, putting in place a ratio of the rate of change in the cost of life or wages from 2019 to 2018. This means comparing the sizes from a long time ago that have nothing to do with the actual increase in wages and the cost of living in real and current time. This kind of coordination is completely different and not in line with pension coordination, so border pensions will constantly drop out and fall out. Therefore, the current is not in line with pension harmonisation, so the border pensions are constantly falling into the price of income, which represents a large and unnecessary job and additional costs to the professional services of the Croatian Institute of Health and Croatian Pensions, which for the Croatian Health Insurance Office performs the work of the mouth on pensions. The assessment of the resources to implement this law is here we wrote 180 million kunas in 2021 and 185 million kunas in 2022, respectively, in order to make healthcare available for 220 thousand of the poorest citizens of the Republic of Croatia. That's not the money that needs to be booked in the budget. That's the money that's already been booked in this budget. When is it booked? It was reserved in April last year when the government's Law passed with an increase in censorship 47 and 61 kuna, respectively. That money is reserved in the 2021 budget and is not spent. Why isn't it being spent? Because from 2018 to today, the number of insurance companies in supplementary health insurance fell from 680 to 580 thousand insurance companies. So the Croatian Health Insurance Office is on the receiving end. Therefore, additional health insurance has fewer costs for 84 million kunas and the trend may only start with this second increase to stop the trend of decline, not an increase in costs of 160 million kuna as foreseen in the budget last year. So, not necessarily, it takes the political will itself to pass this law despite the government's view that the government did not say about this law that the proposal is bad, but that the alignment is bad, the way to align it is bad that I would very much like to say that there is an agreement. It will be easy for us to agree on coordination if you raise your censorships to what we are looking for, which is 2,000 for a family member and 2500 kuna if the person lives on his own. And our motivation to count on the indexation of pensions and to compare it because the biggest losers and the biggest ones who fall out because of the increase in censorship are pensioners, in receiving a Christmas certificate, a resurrection or social aid from cities, municipalities, counties. We don't know how the covid supplement will apply to them, because we haven't seen the decision but it's obviously income. And this censorship that's here is a very serious censorship. He's a very serious income censor. This censorship is related to HZO, HZMO, IRS, all proceeds are coming in. It must mean that something would not enter the income censorship must be a decision or it has to be the law not to go into the income censorship. That's why there's so much trouble, and that's why it should be raised to this level that I'm talking about. One more moment to say what's not to be explained every time. What do our citizens get in addition? Because I don't pay for drugs. Additional health insurance covers specific health services and cannot be used for another purpose. At this point, almost a million and 700,000 citizens of the Republic of Croatia are paying additional health insurance of 70 kn per month, and this is income in the special account of the supplementary health insurance of about 125 million kuna per year. It's a serious asset. This is one eighth of the health budget and it should be kept and used useful in any case. I think the secretary of state would agree. Maybe not with everything I've said, but the need to use these funds should be known and should be very, very useful to use for the purpose that is defined. If you have additional health insurance, you won't have to, I repeat this for our sakes and for the sake of the citizens, pay the cost of health care from mandatory health insurance. This involves hospital treatment costs, means hospital days, specialist examinations and diagnostics, orthopaedic and other aids, dental health care and prosthetics and physical rehabilitation. When using this health care you use the basis of the manual of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance and in institutions that have concluded a contract with the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance. In short, the additional health insurance provided by the public insurance company, because we have 6 or 7 private insurance companies dealing with the same activity, the public insurance company, which is the largest, strongest, which rests on solidarity among generations and which is so strongly listed in the overall health budget. Therefore, it covers the difference, so the supplementary health insurance carried out by the Croatian Health Insurance Institute covers the difference to the full price of health care from the compulsory health insurance provided for in Article 19(3) and (4) of the Mandatory Health Insurance Act. So, additional health insurance saves us where we should pay certain services in terms of the law of a particular participation. I'll stop there. There will be an opportunity to repeat or in particular highlight and in some ways I ask that everything that is not clear to try to discuss here today in the manner of constructive dialogue, the culture of dissension of speech, arguments and that something, if not today, if not when we vote for this law to help our citizens in due course.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41162	Thank you very much. Thank you. You were two seconds shorter than allowed time. You have several replicas. The first replica is the respected representative Andreja Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41163	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Hrelja, you have said that these legal changes of yours will cover 220,000 citizens. I watched last year's amendments to the law, where the government cited a projection that it would be like 200,000 citizens happy with those minimum adjustments. Were those projections accurate? And secondly, in the amendment last year, you were looking for 1830 kuna per member of the family, i.e. on a single 2340 kuna. However, the line of poverty is actually with us not to boast, so here I support what you're saying right now. Here's your comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41164	Thank you. The reply to the replica, the esteemed Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41165	Thank you for the replica. The projections have not proved correct, neither have the government, nor, unfortunately, the associations. There has been no increase in the number of insurance companies, but it has been falling for the second year in a row. At this point, maybe with the last indexation, it's kind of going down. And second question, yeah, and forgive me, I'm focused on giving you the right answers. So, we're scratching the poverty line all the time. Now, according to EUROSTAT, the poverty line is 2710 kuna, but I think this is a constructive proposal, that without a general social consensus, we can't run into some border we haven't even studied enough. What's that? At the end of the same time, other countries are working on a strategy to reach the poverty line so that citizens can be protected.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41166	Thank you. Time. Next replica honoured representative Marija Selak-Raspadić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41167	When you last proposed this law he did not pass because the Government stated that the applicant did not specify from which sources these funds would be provided, nor were these funds secured in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2019 and the projections for 2020 and 2021. Of course, I will agree with you, additional insurance is necessary, supplementary insurance especially for elderly people at the greatest risk of poverty and who are struggling with too little pensions is a particular problem. But the government has already stated here that there is no way that this proposal will go either in the future. So I'm curious, do you think there's any chance that this debate here would really encourage the government to change its mind despite what she said a few years ago that there's no money?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41168	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41169	I thank you for the replica. So the government's first opinion was like that last year. However, in April 23rd, a law was sent and discussed here and a law was adopted in May where censorship was increased by 47 and 61 kuna, respectively. It means that the government planned a 2020 cost at the level of the new 200 thousand and in 2021. What do you say? I mean, that money doesn't go away today. If it's really reserved, I want to believe it's reserved in the state budget and that it can be used for these purposes. I have no reason not to believe that by encouraging a debate in this high house we can't change anything. If that were true, then I don't know what I've wasted all these years in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41170	Thank you. The next replica is Honorable Representative Davor Ivo Stier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41171	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You just said that you believe the money is secured. Now that I'm reading the proposal that's on the official pages of the Parliament, it says they need to be further secured in the state budget for 180 million kuna a year for the first year. After 185 second year, etc. I'd like an explanation. So, should this document that is on the official pages of your proposal be changed, then, do not need any additional funding because there is already, or is there some discrepancy between this proposal and what you have mentioned.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41172	Look, this proposal came from September last year. We haven't had the best time to discuss this proposal, put it on an ad act, and if it takes within six months as a proposing I can give a new proposal in which it will write exactly what you say. But the fact is, we didn't know relationships in September last year. She didn't know the government, they didn't know how many new associations they were going to jump in. We suspected that with such a small increase in censorship, there would be such a huge increase in the number of insurance companies and I think we were with our doubts right. This is a situation for the Government to correct its opinion, to make or to propose, on the same basis and at the same level, a bill or that we, in six months when we get the right to propose a new bill where we say, are the means secured.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41173	Thank you very much. I'm just asking you to wait until I give you my word in accordance with Article 231. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament Please wait until I give you my word, here's nothing else. [[/Intruder Hrelja: What?]] Thank you. [[Intruder Hrelja: Thank you.]] It's all right. The next replica is the respected representative Mladen Karlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41174	Thank you, Vice President. My esteemed colleague, Hrelja, is curious to me why you're asking from 1563 to 2,000, which is almost 28% or from 2000 to 2500, which is 25%? I think it's a little too much to be easily accepted, given that it requires a very large amount of financial resources. I understand that this is not a large amount for someone who has a pension of 2,000 kuna, but yet the increase from 1500 to 2000 is a little too large in percentage and of course it immediately causes a reaction. I think it's, at least... that every year there will be an indexation so that it will come slowly to an increase in this census. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41175	Thank you very much. Replication response. Here you go, Mr. Crescent.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41176	Thank you, Vice President. So I think the reaction to the proposal is more fear and perhaps a lack of data in the assessment. I must admit that following the adoption of the Law in April last year, monitoring was intensified at the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance, i.e. in the supplementary health insurance of insurance movements. So at this point, we're all smarter than we were. At that moment, we were in conflict, so the prime minister made a deal with pensioners who sought the same 2480 at the level of last year's poverty line, and then agreed to 47 kuna. I don't know why. I led the action in front of the Croatian retired party to collect signatures to support the law. So we were in some kind of conflict. We're smarter today, so I expect some solutions to be much better.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41177	Thank you very much. The next replica is Honored Representative Daniel Spajic. Here you go, Mr. Spijic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41178	Thank you, Chairman. When I listened to your presentation, you didn't mention it anywhere, or I might not have heard the digitalization of the system. I think it's very important. And as for these 180 million kunas, I don't think that should be a problem, because we spend 15 billion dollars a year through various and diverse support and we don't know where they are. So this 180 billion shouldn't be a problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41179	Thank you very much. Replication response. Here you go. We'll make a deal... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41180	Thank you. I'm a little temperamental. Excuse me. So as far as the digitalisation of the system is concerned, the system is highly digitised and highly informatively perfected, so there is a data exchange between the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance, the Croatian Pension Insurance and Tax Administration, and I told you that, I told you just because of those income censors. [[I see, I see. I'm like that myself.]] If anything this system boasts can be commended for, and as far as the funds are concerned, the funds are indeed secured, because it went into the adoption of the Law, at least the intentions, I want to believe in fair intentions, whether it will indeed be ensured, that this number of people will be included. But it didn't happen, and we have to look for ways, react, correct that mistake.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41181	Okay, thank you very much. Does the Government's representative want to further explain his opinion before the debate on behalf of the Representatives' Club? Yeah. Then I give my word to the Honorable State Secretary of the Ministry of Health, Dr. Zeljko Plazonic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41182	Respected MPs and MPs. Therefore, the proposed draft law of 24 September 2020 proposes that the income price of the insured persons should be increased from 1563.22 kuna to 2 thousand kuna per month, which is an increase of 97.94%, while the increase of the income census from 2 thousand kuna, which is also established by the Voluntary Health Insurance Act to 2 500 kuna, which represents a monthly increase of 25% for the single insurance company. It is also proposed that the established income census be coordinated on 1 January and 1 July of each year, in the same way that the current value of the pension is aligned under the Pension Insurance Act. In point 3 of the evaluation of the resources necessary for the implementation of the proposed Law, the applicant estimates that additional provision is necessary in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia of 180 million kuna during the 21st year, i.e. € 185 million in 22nd year, in order to ensure the availability of healthcare for 220 thousand citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Since the necessary funds for the implementation of this Act are not secured in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for the 20th year and projections for the 21st and 22nd years, the adoption of the proposed Law is not supported. Furthermore, an existing solution to the establishment and harmonisation of censorships for the payment of the premium of supplementary health insurance from the funding of the Drave budget, the Voluntary Health Insurance Act is considered appropriate and tailored to current economic opportunities. In doing so, we stress that those rights are not only exercised by pensioners, but also by other insured persons, and therefore we find the reason for the planned harmonisation to be done in the same way as prescribed by the Pension Insurance Act. It is also proposed that the income census be harmonised twice a year without having any effect on any change, for the reason that income data from the Tax Administration are taken over for a period of one year, i.e. the insured persons are entitled to pay an additional health insurance premium from the State budget if their total income is shown per family member in the previous calendar year, it is monthly not greater than the prescribed amount. Therefore, in the event of an increase in the income of the insured person during the year, they will continue to exercise that right even though their income may have increased or decreased in the course of the year in which they already exercise the right to an additional health insurance policy does not burden the State budget. We point out that there is currently an ongoing analysis of the impact of the Law on Amendments and the addition of the Law on Voluntary Health Insurance on the movement of the number of insurance companies, and a positive impact is visible on the trend of halting the number of additional health insurance policies and this on the burden of the State budget in the Croatian Health Insurance Institute system. The opinion only that the legislative changes implemented, in particular with a new way of determining the censorship that will be indexed each year, or harmonising the income censorship with changes in the average consumer price index and changes in the average gross salary, have a positive impact on a sensitive group of citizens who exercise the right to pay the premium of supplementary health insurance from the State budget. In accordance with the provisions of the Voluntary Health Insurance Act, the decision to coordinate the income censorship shall be made by the Administrative Board of the Institute, based on the data provided by the State Statistics Office, and no later than 30 November of the current year for the following year. In view of the above, and given the current epidemiological situation and the significantly unplanned burden on the health system and the State budget of the opinion, only that the amendments to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Voluntary Health Insurance of April 2020 are a realistic and acceptable solution in the current circumstances in which the Republic of Croatia is located, and it is proposed not to accept the proposed law in question. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41183	Thank you, Secretary of State, you have several replicas. The first is a respected representative, Andreja Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41184	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, the number of insured persons eligible for payment of this supplementary health insurance by those 12 categories listed in the previous amendments to the Law for 2019 was 666 thousand 777 was 666 thousand 777. What are your projections for 2020? So what are your numbers? And is the state good or bad paying? So does it satisfy all these obligations for all these 12 categories, what payment dynamics are, how much you actually owe because we know you're a bad payer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41185	Thank you. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41186	These are pretty much I'd say the financial exact questions to which I can't quite answer financially precisely because it wasn't the subject of this law either. What are the estimates? The estimates can be either bigger or smaller, and I really can't talk about those data because we're only going to see that when we do an analysis.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41187	Thank you very much. Next replica honoured representative Marija Selak-Raspadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41188	As you said yourself, the last changes were in April 2020. From April 2020 to today, the world has literally turned over. So, apart from growing the poverty line, the risk of poverty is also growing, and the most likely to increase in due time is the health risk due to all the unsustainable checks and everything else that has happened to us as a consequence of this pandemic. In that sense, you are now rejecting this legislative proposal, where we overlook the fact that especially when we talk about elderly people, more than a third of the elderly are really at risk of poverty. But we must be aware of the fact that, in the future, in view of everything that will happen to us, you will still have to make new legal changes, because citizens will not be able to bear this burden.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41189	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41190	Whether citizens can, citizens won't be able to do much about the situation in which we live, or they'll be very difficult to endure, and at that moment I think of this current pandemic that has affected us and which practically has such negative consequences that it's much more important to survive at this point in time for this population that is very risky than anything else to think about. On the other hand, the pandemic itself has its entire series of negative consequences, and it is certain that after one day it will cease to be a significant manifestation of all other diseases that are present in our population by then. How it's going to be from a financial base it's very difficult to predict, but there's likely to be a significant increase in the cost of maintaining this health system and this level that we have at this point.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41191	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41192	Dear Mr. Secretary of State, this is a proposal of the 934th Act last April where the government claimed that it would spend 160 million kuna to increase the censorship of 47 kuna. This is a report from February 5th, 2021. The Croatian Institute of Health Insurance, where there was an increase in the cost and increase of insurance, did not come from 687 000 insurance companies paid by the state in 2018 to 582,000 insurance companies, i.e. decreased the cost of the state from 577 million kuna to 490 million kuna per year. So the numbers say everything. Trends and analyses already exist. So you could say we don't accept indexation, we accept numbers. Thank you very much. The funds exist.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41193	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41194	I would be the happiest if no one should have to pay for additional health insurance and that should be basic, I would say the strongest effort of all of us here and us working in state institutions to get there as soon as possible. It's first and foremost. On the other hand, regardless of what you say the number has fallen, and the funds have increased significantly at the same time, the expenditures of the health system have also increased, and you know who are the most frequent and demanding users of our health services. And what I told you last time on the board, and now I will publicly repeat myself very often is forgotten and even doctors and doctors working in the health system of the Republic of Croatia that Croatia has a solid health system that guarantees every citizen all medical services that can be provided and provided to him at some point in this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41195	The next replica of the esteemed representative Grozdana Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41196	Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Well, yeah, right now you're saying that any increase in rights would really all wish our citizens had. But it was not mentioned here that at the end of 2020 that the censorship was increased to 1600,12 or 2047 kuna, respectively. So, there's been an increase in rights from that extra insurance. The fact is that you mentioned that the costs and health care and especially during this pandemic period are significantly increased and that at this point this requirement is indeed too great and must be aligned with the state budget, i.e. with changes in the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41197	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41198	I couldn't agree more with you. We have spent about two and a half billion kunas in these times of this universal pandemic more than those planned in our budgets in view of the needs of this pandemic and in view of everything that we have had to give our patients additionally in care, given both the number and the sick and those patients who required intensive treatment methods in our institutions. You know, there were even problems about not being able to care for all patients at times how many patients were on hold or on the need for hospital treatment. Therefore, it is the financial resources we have that I would say significantly more than anyone else in this world would do because we know that besides solidarity of the system as such and health workers, in their solidarity activities, in their work and in their pawnage, they are very concerned about our patients.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41199	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Now I want to ask the representatives of the Committee's rapporteurs, will they take the floor? If I do not open the debate, the first one will speak on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club, the respected representative Daniel Spajic. Here you go, sir.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41200	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, dear Secretary of State. According to the Law on Voluntary Health Insurance, the Socially vulnerable groups of residents of the Republic of Croatia are paid the premium of supplementary health insurance from the Republic of Croatia's budget. Since income censorship has not been changed for several years due to wage growth and the increase in minimum wage, a large number of socially endangered residents have crossed the censorship and lost the right to a subsidized premium, and the loss of that subsidy would far exceed the salary increase. Many of them would have found themselves in an absurd situation if their total income had been higher before the raise, so this amendment to the law, which we support, increased income censorship to 2 thousand kuna per month, i.e. to 2,500 kuna per single person, and future income censorship will be adjusted twice in the same way as harmonising the value of pensions under the Pension Insurance Act. This solves this problem in the long run, without the need for frequent additions to the law. The additional budget cost that will ensure the availability of health insurance services for 220 thousand people with an endangered standard will be around 180 million kuna per year. For a country that annually without clear standards and controls shares more than 15 billion kunas of various subsidies should not be a problem to find an additional 180 million kuna for our socially sensitive citizens. We agree on this, but there's no consensus on the general state of our health system. The domestic movement has repeatedly pointed to the increasingly difficult situation in our health system, whose problems do not see an end, but they accumulate, and the ruling do not necessarily have a vision for turning. They revolve around in a vicious circle from which due to lack of competence and too much corruption and nepotism cannot come out. Even in the context of cooperation on the development of the National Development Strategy, the World Bank highlighted most of these problems, but it was all in vain. Our health system is in an absurd situation, those who pay the premium, which are employers, pay it too much, while those who work in our health care get too little and leave our country. For each thousand kuna, the employer must pay an additional 165 kuna premium for compulsory health insurance workers without restriction. This is how 80% of our health income is collected, which will be as much as 23.5 billion kuna this year. This is just one of the commitments that makes Croatia not competitive in the environment, which is why we do not have enough jobs and therefore not enough of those who pay the premium. Only a third of the insurance insurance companies in the Republic of Croatia pay the insurance premium, this is the vicious circle from which we can only get out of strong economic growth, and it is not even in sight because our trade coalition of brotherhood and unity deals with some other priorities. We can see that the coalition partners are gone today, because the debate is not in their personal interest. To this amount, the government adds as much as 2.9 billion kuna from the budget this year and next year as much as 2.9 billion, which will reach nearly 29 billion kuna in total with other types of income. In total, the public cost of the health system should be added to permanent interventions from the hospital debt budget, to large-scale drugs currently amounting to between 5 and 6 billion kunas. All these releases of tens of billions of kunas are not enough for the system to secure decent salaries and working conditions for our healthcare staff, nor adequate health care for insurance companies who face long, often several months of waiting lists. Just an example, why the debt in hospitals? Like a viritative hospital, washing laundry in St. John's Green, 120 kilometers away from Virovitica, an 8.5 million kuna contract for three years, which the geniuses signed, what do you think? A total of 3% of income is spent on administrative jobs, health insurance checks amounting to nearly a billion kuna per year, the main reason is the catastrophic state of system digitisation, although EU funds have been available for several years. The country movement has already pointed out several times that former Sanader ministers and people who do not have the necessary competence in this area are preparing and controlling the implementation of the digitalisation of the health system. Unfortunately, we still do not see a reaction from the government or the DORH to protect the national interest in taking advantage of the historic opportunity and with over 300 million kunas of available funds successfully complete optimization and digitisation of the process. Croatia has over 30% more hospital beds per capita than the old members of the European Union, which have significantly better quality health care than we do. We could continue to list for hours all the problems facing our health system, which without reforms only increase due to poor democratic trends in overall reduction and the average ageing of the population. In short, the Homeland Movement supports these amendments to the law in question as they ensure the availability of health care to the most vulnerable people. The 180 million kuna circus has to be found because it is only a small part of the savings that can be achieved through the rational management of the health system. What worries us is that there are no indications of reforms and structural changes in the view that would stop negative trends in the two critical, public systems of the Republic of Croatia, which are health and pension. Heads are pushed into the sand or, more specifically, into deep strange forests, where nepotism and negative selection are grinded away, away from the public for whose interests are not taken responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41201	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41202	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, I must respond to the State Secretary's presentation. I don't argue at all what he said about health problems, but I'm telling you again what covers supplementary insurance. I'm stressing security. It is a contract between citizens and a public insurance provider of supplementary health insurance living in a house called the Croatian Health Insurance Institute, but has nothing to do with contributions. This is the contractual relationship of a public insurance company with more than a million 675 000 citizens. Cover if you have additional health insurance you won't have to pay health care costs from compulsory health insurance. This includes the costs of hospital treatment, i.e. hospital stay, specialist examinations and diagnostics, orthopaedics and other aids, dental health care and prosthetics and physical rehabilitation when you use this medical care based on a payment card from the Croatian Health Insurance Institute with institutions that have contracted with the Croatian Health Insurance Institute. It's a hundred percent thing. You can't use this money for anything else. At this moment, there are 800 million kunas of surplus revenue over expenditures with all paid liabilities on the special giro account of the supplementary health insurance at the Croatian National Bank. To be clear, it is due to this number of millions and 675 000 citizens who either suspend their salary or retire every month pay 70 kuna. They don't ask you why it's like that. Of course there were fewer specialist reviews, fewer hospital stays, and that money is ready when all this goes to cover the cost of participation starting with the instructions and then on. And that money can't be used for anything else. Then I don't understand that Minister Beros is already third in a row that silently announces an increase in the price of a policy to cover the costs of health care. With this you can't cover general health costs, hospital debts to the pharmaceutical industry. It's not the subject of this insurance. When he does, he'll be covered, but now he's not. And watch as the Croatian Health Insurance Office advertises itself. It says the basic task of the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance of Supplemental Health Insurance is to provide maximum access to a favourable and quality public-health service without the need for surcharges when you need help from a doctor for any reason. The Croatian Health Insurance Institute policy is the only additional health insurance policy in Croatia with a single price of 70 kuna per month for all citizens. Older citizens whose health care is most needed pay the same price policy as younger and healthier insurance companies, and we care for such access only on the market. So this is a system of solidarity among generations, the strongest possible system that can withstand anything. There's no profit here. The public insurance company is non-profit and needs to be kept safe. This is to show that the concept of public health is based on intergenerational solidarity not only sustainable but also most favourable for all citizens. At a favourable price, the Croatian Health Insurance Institute's policy card is also used by simple use of additional health insurance. Our only card provides you with security payments, participations in all public health institutions and offices throughout Croatia, and support for insurance companies is provided by our many offices throughout Croatia. The family of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance, additional health insurance today accounts for more than 2.3 million satisfied and faithful citizens. That's almost a million and 700,000 who pay for it themselves and these 580,000 more for which the state has to pay for it. And most importantly, the public insurance company of the Croatian Health Insurance Office has never broken up a single insurance policy because of the excessive cost of treatment. Private houses are Thank you. [[Intruder Škoro: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41203	You have one replica. Honorable representative Andreja Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41204	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. It's a good thing you brought all these numbers out to clear up a little with all your colleagues, those who are not clear and in fact to the general public. Public insurance actually practically monopoly with us. We also spoke on the board. You've also had some experience from the surrounding countries on the basis of which you based, I suppose, these additions to the law, so just remind us a little bit of what some surrounding countries are doing, how they're dealing with health insurance issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41205	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41206	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your word. So, we have experience, we follow the experience of colleagues from Slovenia. Therefore, citizens of Slovenia pay 35 euros a month for about the same thing that is covered by supplementary health insurance, not by public insurance but by the four private insurance houses that have divided the market. The only condition they have among themselves is that they can't make more than 10% of the profits a year if they have, show more than 10% of the profits, then they have to pay the money back to the citizens. They are very sad about this solution because their price is too high and they are not too satisfied with this relationship because the prices and costs of private insurance companies are given to blow up, and you know it well how it works, because you can assume.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41207	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Green-Left bloc Club, a respected representative, Damir Bakic, will speak. Here you go, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41208	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Therefore, according to the provisions of the supplementary health insurance premium, carried out by the HZZO, the State budget pays for all persons whose total income in the last year per member of the family is not more than $1,563,23, while for singles, the censorship is 2.000 kuna. These censuses were only changed last year, but slightly, as a result, or since they had not been changed for a full period of 15 years. The proposed law raises these censorships, in this sense it is beneficial and necessary. A half-year dynamic of harmonisation of the census is also proposed at rates that correspond to the amount of all pensions, i.e. the parameter called the current value of the pension. The truth is, according to the government's testimony, that the users of this instrument are not just pensioners, so there is no reason why the indexation of this census should follow the coordination of pensions with both rhythms and amounts, or rates. Speaking of governmental evidence, it is also true that the pandemic has significantly increased, increased and increased our health costs, but this instrument and its adjustment, or the release from paying a larger number or wider circle of citizens, does not burden the health system, not burdens but prioritizes the health system. It's about the payment of one premium of insurance that now, instead of one round of citizens, someone else pays the State budget. The second question is whether this insurance premium is adequate for all the risks that that insurance covers, that's a whole other question, but I'm going to say it again, it's not about some prior loss of health system, i.e. about the new cost. It is possibly about the new cost of some other position in the State budget, which is what it is. Or it could be said that this is about reduced revenue from the State budget. But there's nothing to do with the healthcare system. That is why I think that this Law should be supported in basic intensity, and possibly the amendment foresees a different modality or dynamics of coordination, i.e. indexation or both. If you need to think about it, we can also agree to it on censorships, on the level of censorship in the light of budgetary possibilities, but we advocate that this Law be adopted in its intensity. But beyond that, and much more than that, we think it is necessary to reform the system, strengthen it and streamline it at the same time. Ensure quality, timely and all available protection and medical care and thus extend the scope and level of rights that each insurance company already has in the basic package. It's in the basic package. It will then be easier and easier to talk about additional health insurance and the availability of that insurance for citizens of the lowest socio-economic status. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41209	Thank you. The next one will speak on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the respected representative Mladen Karlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41210	Dear Vice President, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor, Here is a proposal where Mr. Hrelja suggests that the income censorship based on which the insured persons exercise the right to pay the premium of supplementary health insurance from the State budget would increase from 1.563.23 to 2,000 kuna, or 27, almost 28%, while, for the single person, it proposes an increase in income censorship from 2 thousand not 2,500, which is 25%, and that they coordinate every 1 January and 1 July of each calendar year and, of course, the task of all representatives in the Croatian Parliament is to contribute, with their ideas, suggestions, amendments, to a single better life of all categories of Croatian citizens from those born to those of the oldest or most experienced. We are, of course, all sensitive to the poorest most vulnerabilities, to those most sensitive groups of the population, and of course we all want to help our fellow citizens live as best as possible and make it our contribution. However, our citizens have given us the confidence to be responsible here in this House, to be rational, to have a government that will lead one policy of even development that prices Croatia, but also all categories of population within the Republic of Croatia, means all categories. The law obliges the Croatian Government to professionally plan the State budget and, of course, to spend the funds as adopted by the Croatian Parliament and therefore, of course, that it is not easy and easy to make such a proposal that comes in the course of the year when the State budget has already been adopted to provide funds that are around 180 million kunas additionally because it is clear from this whole cost of the State budget. It is not the cost of the health system, it is the income to the health system, additionally, it is the cost of the State budget, and now we have to look at it means that we must be responsible, or the Croatian Government must be responsible for such proposals, it must stick to the budget first. And secondly, it means evenly helping all categories, in this year we are especially in the specific year and past and this, precisely because of this pandemic of the Coronal virus which, of course, significantly increased the costs of the health system, means that, not only health, but indirectly and economies, and it is drastically where from the State budget and various other European funds must be provided with means to preserve jobs and of course that at that point it is difficult for anyone to run the government to hardly accept this kind of proposal now, which, in my opinion, is excellent for those citizens who need additional, who would like to have additional health insurance, and I would like to have it, because it is one expense, fortunately not to say, 70 kuna a month unlike Slovenia who, what, three times larger. However, for those who have small pensions, of course that is one additional, additional burden. However, it is still complementary health insurance, our fellow citizens all have basic health insurance, so they have basic health care, they are not left, I don't know, street or as in other countries their financial opportunities, but this is something extra where they would actually have some health options that otherwise have to be added to participated, or paid. And that's why I think it's hard to accept in this form this, especially because the amount is quite large, means that an increase of 28 or 25% is certain to cause a burden in the State budget, as 180 is stated, it might be, if a good estimate is so much, perhaps more than 185 in the following year. So what is important in my view is that what needs to be highlighted means that, with the legislative changes implemented, in particular with the new way of determining the censorship that will be indexed each year, that is to say, harmonising the income census with changes in the average consumer price index and changes in average gross wages have a positive impact on this sensitive group of citizens who exercise the right to pay a premium of supplementary health insurance from the State budget. So I think it's already one step, it may not be a big step, but it is a small step that now every year, thanks to this decision of the Croatian government will be such that it will grow and thus ensure that in the next period it will certainly increase that censorship or indexation every year, unlike the previous times when there was no harmonisation. I say, given the current epidemiological situation and the unplanned burdens of the health system and, of course, of the State budget, we find it difficult to adopt such a proposal at the moment, so here on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community we simply cannot accept such a proposal as it was made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41211	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41212	Mr. Vice President, I know it's too late, but it's correct to answer all the questions that are being asked here. I just need to reaffirm that the basis of the adoption of the Law in April, i.e. in May 2020, with an increase in the price of 47, 61 kuna and the indexation in November last year, so by that act is guaranteed in the State budget 160 million kuna, but not a single kuna has been spent because compared to last year more than 20,000 insurance companies, which should be paid for by the State budget than it was at the moment of budget adoption. As far as this Law is concerned, it was sent in September of last year, so before the adoption of the budget. Secondly, health costs have been increased, and I agree with that, but this is not the Covida pandemic, this is insurance contracted between public insurance insurance and citizens, paid by citizens every month and where the law provides for what they can use. I've already quoted it twice, I'm not going to do it three times, which is to be used for, and on the other hand, you have 110 thousand health services in the last year less, so they couldn't pay for either participation or hospital stay or specialization for other services as well. So, supplemental health insurance is in the plus. Why? Because every million 675 thousand citizens pay neatly, every month 70 kuna. So it's not the same story. And to remind you, the government's obligation to increase the censorship not to, for 47 kuna, but to what is necessary, what we should agree is in the Anti-Poverty Strategy 2017-2020, where the importance of access to healthcare is particularly highlighted. And we have one number that health care is not available because of the lack of income, because of the low income, and here we are called as a society to increase censorship, and the easiest thing to talk about indexation is that we can do what we want, the problem, raise the censorship when we have the funds reserved, but, if not Minister Maric, the health care won't get that money. Minister Maric in rebalancing can say we will use for something quite different, not to increase the censorship, and were foreseen in 2020 and in the 2021 projections to increase the censorship. And just so we know Minister Maric, when we're putting him in our mouths many times, is only the first minister to pay more money in 2018 than was the obligation to the supplemental one. When we look 12 years back, the debt to this public insurance company is more than a billion kuna. So, citizens pay all their money regularly, the state didn't pay. I'm not amnesting any government, I'm not amnesting any government because they've all been involved in this, and you don't know who's more guilty, depending on who it is, that they've neglected this public security guy. If you'd asked me what I would do, I would have left this public insurance company alone on the market, given another way of managing him and to be competitive with private insurance because I know that in this number of insurance companies that he has, he would have been very competitive and he would have mixed everything from the market precisely because of what he's doing in the strength of solidarity among the generations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41213	Thank you. You have one replica, Mr. Hrelja. Stay, please. Replica, respected representative Daniel Spajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41214	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Hrelja, when you mentioned Mr. Maric that he had given something. I would just like to remind you that even the debt of the state was never greater in terms of the debt of the state was never greater than it is now with regard to Mr. Maric. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41215	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41216	Look, we're discussing a special aspect today. Therefore, these are neither contributions nor debts to pharmacyes, nor total debts. It is certain that there is an excuse whether to fully increase debts, I don't know, but we live in a time of pandemic with very limited economic activity, and I don't want to cover it. I want this discussed openly. But all countries are going in that direction, unfortunately, because no one has found the right strategy against this pandemic. I just don't want it to get abused. That is why I insist on respecting what has been reserved for these purposes to be spent on these purposes, because otherwise Minister Maric will be able to say justifiably, watch it not, we will put it somewhere else, and I think the fight against poverty in the Republic of Croatia is a great priority.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41217	Thank you. The next on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club is a respected representative, Andreja Maric. Here you go, Mrs. Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41218	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Parliament, dear Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. An important law on voluntary health insurance already mentioned today, which was voted last year in April, regulates the types and methods of carrying out voluntary health insurance. Additional health insurance as a type of voluntary health insurance to insured persons shall cover health care costs from compulsory health insurance. However, the censorships established in April last year increased by a minimum and insufficient 47 kuna to a family member, i.e. 61 kuna single after they had not been changed since 2004. The number of insurance workers who had additional health insurance on the budget has varied from 2004 to today and ranged from 350,000 to almost 800,000 insurance during 2012, and 460,000 insurance on the burden of the state budget at the end of 2018, and in 2019 there were 12 categories of 666 700 insurance companies. However, as we have heard today, the number of users has been further reduced by 100,000 insurance companies. From the highest number of insurance companies mentioned in 2012 to today, the right to an additional health insurance policy on the burden of the budget has lost more than 260 000 people due to a minimal increase in income. And there are just a number of examples that because of such a minimal increase in income just enough to cross the so far property censorship, then such a citizen must pay 840 kuna of supplementary health insurance that they spend almost entirely on him or she eats on an annual minimum increase in income. In the year 2020, the Governing Council of the HZOO decided to coordinate the price of income for 2021 by putting it in proportion to the change in the cost of life, i.e. the 2019 salary, as compared to 2018. And now this new censorship is 1600.12 kuna for a family member, or 2047.20 kuna for a single man. These are again minimal corrections that may only include a few thousand citizens, which remains insufficient. We have heard that the promoter explained that he is seeking to pass an emergency procedure to determine the faster and more appropriate income price for those insured persons for whom, according to the principles of social solidarity, there is a need for the premium of supplementary health insurance to be paid from State budget funds and suggests that, as we have heard from 1563.23 kuna, it is increased to 2000 kuna per month and for single insurance companies from 2000 to 2500 kuna per month. This is 25% compared to the current census, which represents half the level of harmonisation of the current pension value between 2004 and 2020, and half the increase in the average gross salary in the Republic of Croatia for the period 2004. This Regulation shall It is also proposed to increase the income census from 1 January and from 1 July each calendar year in the same way as the current value of the pension under the Pension Insurance Act. And just by accepting this legislative proposal, we agree that it would be far more fair and appropriate for the average amount of gross wages, i.e. pensions in the Republic of Croatia to define that circle of persons for whom the premium of supplementary health insurance is paid out of the state budget, and in addition, there would be no longer any future situation in which the censorships in full proportionality with the current level of wages and pensions have long been established. We've heard about the barats. The proposal was in September 2020. When the full budget has not yet been known, but it is important that this would make healthcare available for the 220 000 poorest citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not support the adoption of the proposed law. It has been said that the applicant did not propose a way to settle the increased expenditures, and as far as we have heard from the applicant, the money is planned. Furthermore, the government considers that the existing solution on the determination of census harmonisation is appropriate, adapted to current economic opportunities cited this epidemiological situation and considers their changes from April last year to be in order, and the indexation considers a good tool that will positively affect a sensitive group of citizens, which does not seem good and acceptable to us. We believe that an excuse for not accepting such good solutions that we have heard from the current proposings should not be as a reason for not accepting because of the epidemiological situation, and certainly not what the government said that no funds were provided in the budget. So, the SDP club will support this proposal to amend the laws that our colleague Hrelja made and we certainly underline once again that the line of poverty in the Republic of Croatia is 2710 kuna, that many of our pensioners barely survive on a monthly basis with much smaller amounts and therefore any assistance from society, i.e. the state is required without waiting, without indexing, without delay. So we think that censorship really needs to rise to this level, at least to this level as well as to the colleagues of Hrelja. So here we once again support this proposal, and of course it would be nice to agree to rule it or at least to bring even better solutions than this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41219	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and Vosa, a respected representative, Dalia Oreskovic, will speak. Here you go, Mrs. Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41220	Thank you, Chairman. According to the Constitution, Croatia is a social state, and the measure and level in which social rights exist is also an indicator of how well it is well-organised, how successful it is in the end and how successful it is, in the end, its inhabitants can trust in that country and its security system, and then social security. We are like the club and as representatives from the Centre and the Voice with our signatures and have given support to this law entering its reading and we believe that it is a reflection of one good intention. The overall improvement in the position and rights of pensioners also shows not only how human we are, shows how honest we are, how much we appreciate the pensioners and their past work and contribution to the construction of this same country whose blessings we are working and active in enjoying now. But in order to make progress, we must also take care of the other side of the medal. We really need to show how many states there are with the data, how it uses them, and how some rights when it assigns them, and when it practicalizes them create or create no new injustice. Very often, the consequences of a poorly-organised country where individual systems do not communicate with each other, in which databases are not harmonised, in which databases do not serve to process data and to benefit from some kind of chaos and the fact that the application of a right in practice is perceived to be inequitable or that between the two citizens in a seemingly identical situation lead to injustice. I think even this kind of proposal might be better if we don't tie the income censorship to the receipts rather than the property. Very often or perhaps not so often because unfortunately we don't have enough rich and situationed pensioners, I'd like it to be so. But there are examples where some pensioners may have small incomes, but they have large and valuable assets. Well then maybe a little correction in this part would be useful to show the state that this one too dares to say the social element primarily gives where it is most needed. I'll leave it to be something to consider, and as far as I can tell, the law is good. And I'm glad that on examples like this, we're showing what social groups all of us should be more concerned about looking for the best, and putting our interparty wars aside. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41221	Thank you. We have one individual debate for now, and this is the respected representative Maja Grba-Bujevic. Here you go, Mrs. Grba-Bujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41222	Vice-President Škoro, distinguished Secretary of State Plazonic, colleagues and colleagues. The legislative proposal ahead of us states that income censors have increased by 47 kuna this year as a censor of the family and 61 kuna for singles, and that they have not changed since 2004. The 2006 Voluntary Health Insurance Act is two years after the assumption that censorships have not increased since 2004 and is incorrect. The law was amended in 2008 and introduced the grounds for exemption from payment of the supplementary health insurance premium. Payments are all secured from the state budget. The latest amendments to the Law on Voluntary Health Insurance of April last year increase annual premiums, and they will continue to continue to increase continuously. An increase in censorship according to the proposing's projections would require an insurance of €185 million at year-on-year level. The proposer himself did not propose from which sources he would provide at least part of that money and therefore need to be completed. The economic situation resulting from Covid 19 in Croatia is not great and it is difficult to expect that the necessary money in this substantial amount could be provided in a short time. According to existing amendments to the law, there has been an increase in censorship that will be corrected at annual level depending on the economic situation and state of the state budget. The measures taken by the government clearly show positive shifts in the fight against poverty. This is confirmed by data from the State Statistics Institute which record visible indicators of poverty reduction in the Republic of Croatia for the time being insufficient, but in the coming years should continue on this path, the path that results. Much of the measures implemented, which are part of the development strategy, relate to health services and their equal availability throughout the country. They want to ensure the development of the poorest and more difficult areas available. Such measures in health care are the basis for improving the availability and quality of services that we should all work on. The key areas in the fight against poverty towards the strategy are health care, pension system and social care. This proposal and the financial impact on the budget without developing a proposal to secure the funds for their achievement could potentially endanger systems such as the pension, health care system that would affect our citizens the most. Health care is largely free of charge for our citizens, and it is socially sensitive to the most vulnerable groups. The exceptions we are talking about today will be corrected through other elements of the help that are constantly being implemented and improved. The arrangement of the supplementary health insurance system is an optimal solution at the moment. Although the very idea of this proposal is not bad, and perhaps it would solve some illogicalness in changing property censorship and thus facilitate the situation, the life situation of part of our citizens does not specify solutions where to find the money needed to implement this law and within a short period of time. The legislative proposal that lies before us represents an insufficiently reasoned whole. It does not receive an analysis of the impact on the state, the systems to which it relates, as well as cost analysis and benefits for its inhabitants. I therefore believe that such a law cannot be supported in the proposed form and content, but knowing a colleague of the Temple in 6 months we expect that all what has been heard today in the debate should be included in the new bill, amendments and additions to the Voluntary Health Insurance Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41223	Thank you. This is what we used up all the speakers in the individual debate. And now, on behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja will be. Here's a colleague of the Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41224	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Plazonic, so I will only talk about facts and a few things I will answer to the allegations that were in the debate on behalf of clubs and individual debates. The fact is that since 2009 when there was a burden on the state budget of a million and 397 000 insurance companies that today fell to 580,000 more than double the burden of the state budget and that is the fact that no one can escape from, the fact that since 2009 all governments have been actively paying their obligation to cover supplementary health insurance policies for the poorest, for students, for disabled people, for voluntary blood donors. Everyone used that. The funds came most from the citizens and the stuff was covered. No one's in charge. If there's a claim, they're off-balance and they're not accusing anyone of anything. At this point, it is required that this bill increases the census from 1600,12 kuna as the indexation occurred at 2000 per person, i.e. from 2047.20 kuna to 2500 kuna. A compromising solution below the poverty line. I remind the representatives, the self-called representatives of the associations without having given them any authority, have agreed to an increase of 47 kuna with Prime Minister Plenkovic. Then the poverty line was 2484 kuna at the beginning of last year. That was the poverty line for last year. So we're not chasing that poverty line that's the new 2710 kuna per EUROSTAT, and we're asking that we gradually get to it, but no longer to have these periods of non-compliance and that this is at such a low level. Look, I was here in 2004 and the fact is that the census were brought the first time in 2004. In 2006, basics for the release of certain structures were installed in the Voluntary Health Insurance Act. The changes took place in 2013. If you remember from 2004 to 2013, pensioners paid 50 kuna, their unemployed wives paid 80 kuna, and workers paid 130 kuna for the same service above a certain level of pay, for the same coverage. In 2013, when we joined the EU, it was a condition for additional health insurance to receive a special giro account, that the funds were controlled and controlled by the State Audit, that the Croatian Health Insurance Office could do so. And it was a condition that for an equal service all citizens must pay the same. Then came private insurance companies who took part of the insurance company, and today we have 300,000 citizens in 6 private insurance houses. And this is the competition between a public insurance company that gives for the same price and those for which private insurance companies want 150, 180 to 350 kuna for this coverage and we have competition in private insurance companies whose aim is to gain profits from our public non-profit insurance company. We have a fortune that the Slovenians don't have. I claim that he can do more, that we can agree that he embraces this censorship. Why can it cover this censorship? Because the funds are planned in the budget. See bill 934. I'm going to give you a report from the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance, Supplemental Health Insurance, and the truth is that 580,000 users are at this point, to continue to decrease. Maybe now with this last indexation, they'll stagnate the number of fuses. So the funds are neutral for that purpose if we respect the items of the budget. I hope and believe that budget items are respected if they are not spent will be re-routed. So, if they were hypothetically placed in 2004 then the average pension, I'm always talking about pensioners, but not just pensioners being damaged. There's a secretary of state right, it's about unemployed workers and poor citizens, but they're retired in the highest number. They are about 370,000 users per these two censors of insurance three quarters make up pensioners. And that's why I'm paying attention to them, and that's why I'm dealing with an average pension. In 2004, the average pension when we exempt from international contracts was 1800 kuna, and watch out the censorship was 1516 kuna per person, i.e. 1939 kuna if the person is single. What does that mean? That the census was 16% smaller per person if the single was 139 kuna and 8% higher, respectively. If these parameters were put on today's pension of 2800 kuna and looked at the latest censorships per person is 43% lower than the average pension, and if we have a single pension, then 27% less censorship than the average pension because we measure the same parameters. Look, we have a census now of 1600 kuna. We're looking for 200 per member of the family, and if there's an increase, the ratio between 1800 and 2800 should be 2352 for the single. At this point we have 2045, we're looking for this law of 2500, and by the rule established in 2004, it should be 3024 kuna at this point. The failure is that we didn't agree in 2004 on how to index, but on several occasions we saved additional health insurance and public insurance, on several occasions there were several occasions, and I can be objected to why I didn't take care of it but we solved some burning pension problems and repaying debt and pension allowances and the issue of insurance training, the issue of retirement for a long-term internship. We weren't standing there, there were burning problems, and we neglected this. It's time to make one bigger step than we've made so far. I'm ready, I'm ready again after six months to let go of this law as Mrs. Bujevic said. However, when I take the opportunity to tell her once again that the funds are provided in the budget by the adoption of the 934 bill, which was referred to the parliamentary procedure in April last year. Dearly beloved, I will slowly end this by asking the Secretary of State to welcome me to the minister, because this is already the third minister in line to talk about increasing the supplementary health insurance policy. The first mini9star did so in 2016 and asked to increase, Minister Nakic, to increase the health insurance policy from 70 to 89 kuna. We collected 102000 signatures and he gave up that collection. And imagine for these million and 675000 insurance companies that pay neatly every month it's a total cumulative 2 billion kuna for them savings. In addition, it has not failed, it additionally operates with a positive result and fulfils all its obligations. Supplemental health insurance is the healthiest part of sick health that I agree with to treat and find solutions, but it is not the addition of an additional health insurance policy. We stay here at the profit censorship, which I answer to Mrs. Dalia Oreshkovic because he is the best censor and most controlled censor. I say he's very correct, which means he's got someone he can't sell right now, and he needs to be treated and there's no income. So, income censorship is how it's arranged and how it's controlled okay. I just ask all state authorities, and when laws are passed, and decisions are made, to say that some social-species don't go into income censorship. This should be specifically indicated. So the concern for citizens is our obligation, and especially to care for vulnerable groups and pensioners primarily and unemployed with their children are vulnerable groups of this society. I am not saying that additional health insurance is the solution to all problems and the solution to poverty in Croatia. It is only one small contribution to poverty reduction and I appeal to the government that when I refer again, because I know that this will be rejected, we could give amendments three would not have passed, because the government's position is that and that is how politics works, to take a good look at that proposal again, given that the funds are in the budget. And I appeal to them to look at it from the aspect of the strategy against poverty in the Republic of Croatia because this is just one little pebble, one part mosaic of red. Not red because of my commitment, the red color of danger. The red color of the danger in this case says not to be taken by those who don't, to those who lack it. 840 kuna for people who are poor in Croatia, missing what I said at first about quality shoes, clothes, food, drink, medicines and all that is needed. We must be aware of this, so do not take the poorest and insist on increasing these censors when there are already reserved funds in the budget. You check if you don't believe me, and I'll meet you for coffee. You will make sure that there are reserved funds that bear this increase. Good-bye to the next proposal. Thank you for the debate. Thank you both to the committees and to the President of the Parliament for putting this in place, because it gives us the opportunity to continue, so with this, not to say fight, but with the initiative to help the poorest citizens of the Republic of Croatia in this way. It's just one of those that's possible and that we owe the steps we're supposed to take. Thank you very much and warmly thank you all for the constructive debate and I think that the debate was in one fine tone, that everyone said everything they needed to know and that no one would leave here to remain offended. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-23-0.u41225	Thank you. For us eight parliamentary deputies, which, in my knowledge, is 5.3% of the total number of MPs, I conclude the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We will continue tomorrow, on Wednesday 24 March at 9.30 minutes with the first point - Proposal for a seed law, fruit material and recognition of agricultural plant varieties, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 99. Thank you very much and goodbye. Have a nice vacation. See you tomorrow morning! Session adjourned at 1920 hours.
