ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u71541	[[CONTINUES AFTER MEETING IN 13,00 HOURS]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u71542	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues, the end of the year in the assembly is always marked by budgets, projections, amendments and ideas as to what should or might happen. That's right this year. We'll finish tomorrow by voting. This year, however, there is one little new thing. The amendments to the draft budget have tried to show how much work there is in Croatia on equality between women and men. And unfortunately, things haven't changed much. Although the government allegedly boasts of good economic results, the revenues of the race, the budget is growing, we have not taken advantage of that opportunity for some serious step. PVD revenues should increase more than 7 billion kuna and 14% compared to this year, but there was no place to reduce VAT to female hygiene needs of the cartridge and tampons. This is a topic that has already been discussed in the assembly, but will be spoken until the government decides to reduce VAT to cartridges and tampons. We'll see what's gonna happen. I am an irreparable optimist, and I hope that the conclusion sent to the government to examine the problem will indeed have some results. I am moderately optimistic also because of the prime minister's reaction to this topic during the current morning. But so far, nothing has happened, so I'm gonna keep this topic on the agenda and I'm not gonna let it fall into oblivion. In addition, I have given amendments to this budget to secure money for free cartridges and tampons in schools. Although some schools in Croatia have already started as some cities have, the government and the state have not heard about it, nor have they been amended, no wonder, also rejected. Menstrual poverty is a serious problem. We have research that has shown that many girls and women in Croatia have problems obtaining basic hygiene supplies and therefore suffers their quality of life. It's not just a Croatian problem to be honest. There are more and more countries where this problem was also seen, but which are more determined to deal with this problem and calculate through reduction of tax and free cartridges we have examples, schools. Croatia is unfortunately not one of those countries. But what I may be most saddened by is that the government had no ear for the procurement of intra-operative radiotherapy devices for the 4 clinical hospital centres Osijek, Rijeka, Split and Zagreb. Croatia has only recently had one such device at the Clinical Hospital Centre of the Mercy Sister in Zagreb, but that is not enough. This device gives high doses of radiation to the area directly affected by the tumor, thus targeting tumor cells without damage to the surrounding tissue. It is mostly used in breast cancer operations, but is used in other gynaecological operations in the head and neck tumors, as well as in some pancreas and colon tumours. Patients do not have to wait for the wound to heal or come to the hospital for long-term radiotherapy as soon as it has accelerated and shortened treatment. In some developed countries that care more about their inhabitants, the device has been routinely used for 2 decades. We are all painfully aware of this country with many patients and many deaths of cancer, and breast cancer but also colon are among the most common. The intraoperative radiotherapy device costs about 5 million kuna. This means that for all clinical centres in Croatia, about 20 million would be sufficient. Now I'm not going to go into that debate as much as millions are given to, and even hundreds of millions, but nearly 174 billion kuna budgets compared to that 20 million is a little over 0.01%. But unfortunately, that 0.01% is obviously too much. The budget is a financial document, but it is primarily a political document. He shows who we are, what country we are, and what we would like to be. Where is this place where the government wants to take us all together? And in that sense, the HDZ government failed the exam again. It was possible to think more about women and general equality in society, and this budget showed that women to Croatian rulers continued to play the last hole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u71568	On behalf of the Social Democrats Club, a respected representative, Domagoj Hajdukovic, will now speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u71569	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, I would like to look back on an international day that we have marked this weekend, which is December 5th when the International Volunteer Day is marked. In 1985, the UN General Assembly declared it a team, thus recognising the contribution of volunteers to a large community, and the values they are driven by are those as universal desires to contribute to the general good and spirit of solidarity without the expectation of material compensation. I think we could all testify I would dare tell the heroic acts of volunteerism right in the moments when it's in our recent history, and I'm talking about some last year and a half of it's been the hardest of our lives. Remember the earthquakes in Zagreb, remember the cheerleading groups that evacuate Petrova, so the birthplace in Petrovo, remember Banija, remember all those people and some members of this home who immediately rushed to Banija, carried help, cramped ruins, etc., remember the statisticians who have been checking buildings tirelessly for days so that people can return to them, remember the alpinists who have torn down chimneys and examined chimneys, whether they can be used, remember the chef volunteers who fed people in Bania, remember the construction workers who sent the machines to try, pardon to help clean up. And where's the state? Over 500 million kunas were spent in Banja, and what did we get? Are the families under the roof? Are they provided with a decent accommodation meeting in winter? No, but we spent a lot of money. All renovated houses or roofs are a product of volunteer work, regardless of what volunteers they were, alpinists, statisticians, builders, fan groups, Red Cross, etc., all of them were done by volunteers. And how does the state treat these volunteers and volunteerism? Well, first of all, the money we spend on promoting volunteerism is more than symbolic. I've been making amendments for years to get that position up right now, the hearing wasn't there, I don't think it would be this year either. The National Qualifications Framework, which should evaluate some of the knowledge and skills acquired outside formal education, and one of the ways in which it is acquired is and volunteering has not revived and does not live the way it should. And every time I propose and every year when I propose more resources in the implementation of the National Qualification Framework, that amendment shall be rejected. Extraordinary activities in primary and secondary schools are highly underrated colleagues and colleagues. The state singles out a hundred kuna per grade school a year for extracurricular activities. It is these extracurricular activities that our students should be brought up to appreciate volunteering, volunteering, and understanding of all the benefits of volunteering not only for themselves as individuals but also for the society and community in which they live as a whole. The most this country has done is the Voluntary Law whose amendments and additions have been voted and accepted in April this year in the Croatian Parliament, and the aim of at least the declaration of this law is to promote and develop volunteering in which the government has established the National Committee for Volunteering Development. However, as I have told my colleagues and colleagues, I do not see where the government goes with the development of volunteering, the spirit of volunteering, as well as promoting the fact that volunteering does not only donate your time and work but you enrich yourself as a person, you acquire some skills and also contribute to your community. If we will best see the example of volunteerism, I will repeat it again and I will finish it then look at Zagreb, look at Banija. Everything that's been done is 90% done exclusively by the act of volunteering. So whether it's athletes, firefighters, citizens who self-organized and came to help, remember the scenes of people coming in, bringing help, crumbling ruins, helping, building. And when the state was supposed to jump in, when the state was supposed to take over here are the results we see today. That is why we felt at the Social Democrats Club that it was important to mark with at least one speech and December 5th, or International Volunteer Day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u71603	The next club of MPs will be the HDZ, and the respected representative Marko Pavic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u71604	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, I would like to use this free speech on behalf of the HDZ Club right now to point to yesterday's Regulation on the termination of the Regulation establishing the highest retail prices of oil derivatives by the government. Namely, conscious disturbances in the oil products market have recently been reacted by the government, and thanks to this reaction to the regulation, the impact on the standard of citizens has been prevented, the impact has also been prevented from spilling the prices of oil products to other products and thus encouraging, further stimulating inflation. Now that the price has stabilised on the market, the government has abolished the regulation and today they are also the average container of 50 liters of Eurosuper 95 is cheaped for 14 kuna or gasoline is cheaped for 28 liters per litre. We have thus shown clear message to both citizens and entrepreneurs that the government has a significant tool and does not libily use it to protect our citizens and entrepreneurs and also send a message that if it needs a similar tool, the same mechanism will be used in the future. If the price of oil derivatives on the market continued to be rampant, the government was willing to enter into other tools, reassess excise duties, fortunately it was not necessary in particular because of the cost of the roads and many other projects. This shows the government’s clear attitude to citizens and entrepreneurs as it intervenes when and how oil derivatives are provided, the gas does not accumulate and also limits their prices to spill them. We see that the prices of construction materials are on the decline, now the prices of oil derivatives, prices of other products according to which our projected me that we reached the maximum inflation stand absolutely, and also on Friday and Saturday was the Parliamentary Assembly of the Union for the Mediterranean where one of the main topics was also energy security and climate change. I personally participated as the representative of President Jandrokovic at the meeting of the presidents of the parliaments of the member states of the Parliamentary Assembly and in the work of several working groups on climate change, given that the EU took over the chairmanship of the Union Parliamentary Assembly for the Mediterranean and that the EU is the leader in the fight against climate change. Here, on security of supply of EU energy, we have highlighted the importance of connecting value chains within the Union, and we have only shown that even though the EU is responsible for 8 to 9% of global CO2 emissions, we must, and China, India, the United States, for 50% that we must continue to be the leaders in the process. And it was a pleasure to report that Prime Minister Plenkovic at the COP in Glasgow made clear our commitment to these European policies, a reduction of 45% of greenhouse gases by 2030, the abandonment of coal technology until the use of coal from 2033, but also the protection of 30% of Adriatics under Croatian jurisdiction. One of the main problems of climate change will be the rise in sea level and there is one of the most sensitive seas within the Mediterranean so that the protection of 30% of our Adriatic territory under our jurisdiction is a very good contribution to the protection of the Mediterranean. The former HTZ wing would be the Mediterranean as it used to be and in order to preserve this Mediterranean and the Adriatic as it used to be, we need to ensure the supply of energy and energy, we need to ensure the fight with climate change and Croatia is ready together with EU members to be the leader in this process by protecting the economy, protecting economic growth and opening new jobs of high added value. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u71637	The next club of representatives will be the Mosta, and the respected representative of Nikola Grmoi will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u71638	Thank you. Here I will start with one thought of the government of Gotovina, "Croatia is without freedom meaningless and impossible." So, today is the anniversary of death and I'm going to touch myself a little bit, here's sorry that fellow Pavić left, he's one of those people who doesn't understand freedom, one of the people who's said these last days that the covid of the confirmations have been introduced to train people, as if people are animals, as if our citizens, citizens of animals that need to be trained, because it's quite clear that the covid of the certificates are not an epidemiological measure, because the vaccines can spread the virus and most likely this breakthrough in the hospital we have because they're vaccinated, and that's also a large number of healthcare professionals who, like here, our colleagues who have been vaccinated in the first box, this vaccine has long gone, so they're in that category. And that's where the breakthrough happened in hospitals and the possible responsibility of the government, the very headquarters for such a large number of deaths that is associated with the unfortunately not-so-good health system that we believe that our health system is because if you look at the number of splits in Slovakia which is almost the same as in Croatia and compare the number of deaths, you will see that we have another systemic problem, which is the question of the quality of our health system and what happens to our people who end up in hospitals, what they pick up there and how they get hurt. What I want here from this place we'll have a debate on the amendments to the Law on the Protection of Publicities against Infectious Diseases, some called it lex Bulj because they introduce penalties for officials who do not want to share their citizens, their fellow citizens on vaccinated and unvaccinated, but if you look closely at the law, you'll see that the government in that law has set up a wider use of covid certificates, which means that we may be behind Christmas, behind New Year's, waiting for a covid certificate in cafes, restaurants, gyms, wherever people go and go. And I want to send a message, dear people, sign for this referendum it's the last line of defense to stop these crazy measures that don't make any sense, to stop these mandatory vaccination announcements that are direct to human freedoms and rights, and it's actually so ugly to listen to HDZ representatives, here's former Minister Pavic talking about commitment to eu policies, as if on some party line of that European policy that should then be respected. Well, tomorrow, European policy may be this European Commission's guideline not to mention Christmas, so Vice President Reiner and Marko Pavić won't even mention Christmas because it's this kind of commitment to European policies or maybe Ursula will say that Croatia is introducing mandatory vaccination, and then we will forcely vaccinate our citizens. Dear people go to the referendum, we're thrown out by many obstructions, we see what they're all prepared for, what all the meetings are held, what all the joint statements are made just to stop this referendum. We are also exposed to many spins, they say this referendum will legalise the situation, so they have already legalized everything for you, we do not have the Constitutional Court as in Slovenia and constitutional judges who will say that access to the workplace is in the state service, that it is unconstitutional to condition Covid with confirmation. Not that it's unconstitutional, it's scandalous, and I'm surprised that the left-wing opposition about it is silent. So it's scandalous that our citizens are divided, that unfortunately a little bit goes to the library you can't do without Covid's confirmation, without testing, and that in the cafe, in the casino, in the tram, there are trams, so you're going to go in without a problem and you're going to tell me about the epidemiological measures and that Covid is an epidemiological measure. Pavic said well, they train Croatian citizens, and we will say a lot about this training of Croatian citizens in this referendum. Dear people come out and support us.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u71660	The next club of MPs will be that of the Homeland Movement, and a respected representative of Stephen Nikola Bartulic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u71661	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, we have recently witnessed that individuals like to quote Pope Francis on various occasions when it serves them well. I think there's a lot of dishonesty, even hypocrisy, but by even the left we hear as an argument for vaccination what Pope Franjo said so Mr. Plenkovic recently used it in a replica of me in the assembly. So I think it's important to remind today what Pope Francis was saying on his way back from Greece yesterday. So it is his comment on this European Commission document on politically correct speech on Christmas and other occasions. So, the Pope said in history that many dictatorships have tried to do it to remember Napoleon since then, remember the Nazi communist dictatorship that is a uniquely diversified secularism and has been condemned to failure. So, this interesting notion that Pope Francis is using, divorced secularism, I think colleagues and colleagues on the left could learn something. Therefore, it warns the Pope that this is not the first attempt to build Christian foundations and what has been planted deep in our European culture to try to undermine in some way, even in time, if enough political powers are acquired, can be erased or even condemned by people who continue to use those terms that are consistent with the truth but would say common sense. So, what's the Advent Time and getting ready for a concrete Christmas event, Christmas. Even the President of the Republic of Milanovic had the need to comment on this as someone who declared himself a left-wing liberal politician, he had reason to say that Christmas is Christmas. And to him, it's undeniable. So he is also aware that this political correctness is destroying our culture, destroying Europe. Why is this important? So we see again in the last few days that, for example, the name could be returned to one of Zagreb's squares in the communist dictator. It's not a team from We can announce in the campaign but now it's a current topic again even though they've been telling us the opposite all along. So it's still important to them. It seems to me that, unfortunately, Croatia did not face its own past in the right way, the political elites certainly failed there, and those who lead our education and education. For example, it would mention experience in Russia where the novels of the great Solzhenitsyn are mandatory literature in Russian high schools, in Croatia there is no sign of it in our schools, there are no writers of dissidents known to our high school students. I would take the opportunity to mention one maybe possibility, that's Ante Ciliga a great intellectual who had very early met the horrors of communism in the Soviet Union, lost all his illusions about it, I was like a young revolutionary who had seen and met this cruel reality. He wrote a lot about it even before Solzhenitsyn, but he'd bet our high school students knew nothing about him and his creation. So this may be an incentive to look at the problem in a new way because some say trapped minds are still in chains of ideological and we'll have to face it unfortunately. It's still being imposed. The Croatian people and the Homeland movement won't shut up once. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u71742	On behalf of the Green-Left bloc's club, the respected representative Urša Raukar Gamulin will now speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u71743	Thank you. Today, December 7th marks the 30th anniversary of the Zec family's brutal murder. Father Michaelo Zec was killed outside his house on Trešnjevci, and Mother Mary and the little girl Alexander were killed in a garbage dump in Sljemen. They were only killed because they were different because they were Serbs, because they weren't ours. In the Homeland War 402 children were killed and their deaths were irreparable loss and a terrible loss for their families, a terrible number of innocent, powerless victims. The community must not forget the civilian victims of war in the Homeland War in Croatia among the victims is the share of civilians 43.3% and we believe that the Civil Victims Act of the Homeland War will finally allow real rights to civilian victims in the first place to families of the missing and killed as well as to all those injured in camps in Croatia, who also in BiH, Serbia, Montenegro, the possibility of exercising rights and obtaining civil victims' status and wounded. But while we are in harmony and agreeing on the condemnation of crime on Croatian citizens, are we ready to condemn those committed against others who are not our own? Are we going to convict the murder of an innocent girl and her parents? Mihajlo Zec and his family, wife Mary and 12-year-old daughter were Zagrebers, father Mihajlo was a favorite butcher, worked in a butcher shop at the beginning of Petrina Street, were like the rest of Zagreb and Zagreb families with Trešnjevka with three children. But they had one big mistake at the time, they were Serbs, they weren't ours, and it's enough that it was '91. was allowed to break into their house, rob valuable things, and when Father Michael asked them to return stolen values ferociously kill him in the center of the city of Zagreb where there were no acts of war. And when the unfortunate wife Mary and the 12-year-old daughter of Alexander took off in front of the house and saw a dead father and wife, it was enough for the murderers to put them in a police van and drive them to Sljeme and to the Adolfovac resort in a garbage dump in cold blood. The girl Alexandra asked them not to kill her mother after they had killed her father. She had no dream of killing her, too. And why would he? What did a 12-year-old girl from Cherriesque do? Alexandra Zac experienced the fate of Lee Deutsch and little Madonna, the fate of innocent children who were killed and killed only because they were different because they weren't ours. The murderers, members of the infamous Tomislav Mercep unit who illegally arrested 52 people from the Zagreb and Pagan areas and killed 43 confessed to murder, but because of the procedural verdict of a judicial error none of them were directly responsible for the cruel murder of the Zec family, however, one of them was Sinisha Rimac in '95. Decorated by a high state medal for a heroic act in the war and was the bodyguard of then Defence Minister Gojko Suška. In 2004, Jadranka Kosor expressed deep regret with surviving members of the Zec family and in the name of the Government of the Republic of Croatia granted them a million-and-a-half kuna as a one-off aid because, as minors, they lost their parents, no foster parents, no worries and no means of life. However, no representative of the city of Zagreb or the government of the Republic of Croatia has come to a ceremony organised by the anti-fascists league of documents and the Serbian National Council over the past 30 years. Today, the mayor of Zagreb Tomislav Tomašević will come to the ceremony in Sljemen and we want to believe that this is the beginning of a new time in which we will commemorate all innocent civilian victims, a time in which we will fight that no more children, no innocent person will be killed or marked just because it is different, just because it is not ours.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u71744	Thank you. This would end with today's work, and we will continue the session tomorrow at 10.00 votes. Thank you very much and pleasantly for the rest of the afternoon. The session was interrupted at 13:32 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80585	Good morning, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. We continue to work, we still have time to resolve all the amendments yesterday, so today we can continue with the point we announced: - The final proposal of the Law on Renewable Energy Sources and highly efficient cogeneration, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 159. The proposer shall be the Government under Article. 85. The Constitution and the Art. in relation to Art. 172. 190. The Rules of Procedure of HS. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs. And now I would like to ask a representative of the motion of the State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy and the sustainable development of the respected Ivo Milatić to give an opening explanation of the final bill, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80586	... MPs and MPs. [[Last-on speaker]] Let me present to you the final proposal of the Law on Renewable Energy Sources and a highly efficient cogeneration which is a fundamental law that promotes and encourages the use of renewable sources in the Republic of Croatia. By applying the Law on Renewable Energy Sources and Highly Effective Cogeneration, it entered into force on 1 January 2016 and replaced the part of the acts in force until then to regulate the area of renewable energy sources, and in particular to encourage them. In 2018, the law in question experienced amendments and additions fully transposed the 2009 Directive. who was editing this area. However, the EU's efforts to increase the use of renewable energy resulted in the adoption of a new Directive on the promotion of the use of renewable energy at the end of 2018, and that Directive sets new targets that are set and that Member States together ensure that the share of renewable energy in total final consumption is at least 32% of renewable energy sources in 2030. The directive covers all energy sectors, as well as end-use sectors in which renewable sources should be used. Thus, in the integrated national and climate plan, Member States should consider potential and create a path towards the 2030 targets. for the electricity, heating and cooling sector, and transport, and all to generate the objective of using renewable sources in the final consumption by 2030. Based on these projections, as well as in accordance with the Energy Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia, this final proposal sets a national goal for at least 36.6% of renewable energy to be in final energy consumption in 2030, and so we have not limited ourselves in case we and Europe and ourselves set ourselves greater goals than the one we have minimally set. This law creates a framework to encourage the use of renewable energy in a sustainable way. This means that the production of renewable energy must be efficient, economical and not adversely affecting environmental aspects, which is particularly important when it comes to the use of bio-mass for energy purposes. Therefore, transparent rules are laid down for the calculation of the share of energy from renewable sources and the definition of these sources and the reporting obligation is introduced to the European Commission in accordance with Regulation (EC) 2018/1999. This law also provides for the possibility of cooperation on joint projects with other EU members and the statistical transfer of the share of renewable energy. The same law builds on clear rules, scope and dynamics of providing support in line with the possibility of planning the development, construction and modernisation of energy systems, and the support programmes for electricity from renewable sources are encouraged to integrate electricity from renewable sources into the market-based electricity market in a market-based way to monitor market developments while avoiding unnecessary market distortions. Manufacturers in the market premium incentive system will get the difference if prices are lower on the market and the surplus funds return when prices on the stock market are higher than needed for the sustainable financing of a particular project over the years in which their work is encouraged. Furthermore, the law lays down the Ministry of Energy as a contact point to provide guidance throughout the process of issuing authorisations related to the use of renewable energy sources and provides for the creation of a Manual on administrative procedures and the establishment of permits for the construction of a renewable energy plant, the question of the guarantee of origin of renewable energy, issues related to the reception of renewable energy into gas systems and heat systems, as well as the question of increasing renewable energy in the heating and cooling sector. In order to implement this law, strong sectoral coordination is needed, thus stressing the need to develop new educational programmes, retraining programmes, and employment in order to ensure that the necessary jobs are filled with professional and qualified staff. The importance of information on support measures available to all relevant actors including consumers and those vulnerable low-income consumers and consumers of their own renewable energy, renewable energy communities, builders, installers, architects, equipment suppliers and systems for heating and cooling and use of electricity, and suppliers of renewable energy and intelligent transport systems. It is extremely important for consumers to be informed of the potential for the use of renewable sources whether it is electrical, heat or renewable fuel, as well as related equipment. The compensation for renewable energy and cogeneration sources is as intended so far, a fee charged by electricity suppliers to final customers as a fixed fee for each sold kilowatt of electricity. However, the law also provides for new funding in renewable production through CROTE, which is provided for in the plan for the use of financial resources obtained from the sale of mission units through auctioning in the Republic of Croatia and the funds collected from the energy authorisation fee and potentially from the fees for imported energy produced in third countries from coal-used production plants. The amendments and additions to the 2018 law have led to the assumption that certain groups of entrepreneurs belonging to the electricity intensive sectors and whose specific position is at risk due to high electricity costs are partially exempt from paying full compensation for renewable sources. On the basis of this, the European Commission has approved the support programme, and the same specifics continue to be maintained in this draft law. This law allows the takeover of electricity from final customers with their own production or self-supply users, which differs from the current law in a way that this will be possible in the future for the renewable energy community and what is important for the institutions will also be able to be users of the self-supply facility. The final customers have the right to participate in the renewable energy community by retaining the right or obligations that end customers have and are not subject to unjustified or discriminatory conditions or procedures to prevent their participation in the renewable energy community. This primarily applies to household buyers. Private companies may also participate on condition that their participation is not their primary commercial or professional activity. The renewable energy communities will have the right to produce, consume, store and sell renewable energy, including through the renewable energy purchase contract, and will also have the right within the renewable energy community to share renewable energy produced in the production units owned by that community. They will be given access to all relevant energy markets directly or through aggregated in a non-discriminatory manner. This law stipulates that the Republic of Croatia will promote the use of renewable energy in the heating and cooling sector and will accordingly seek to increase the share of renewable energy in the sector by 1,1 % as an annual average calculated for the period from 2021-2025. Specific efforts will need to be made in renewable energy for heat and it is extremely important that they now launch activities at local level in order to increase the amount of renewable energy in heating. Heat energy suppliers are obliged to provide final customers with information on energy efficiency and share of renewable energy in their centralised heating and cooling systems, at least once a year with an account or always at the request of the final buyer. User of a system for heating and cooling which is ineffective or which has no approved plan to make by 31 December 2025. becomes effective has the right to exclude from such a system, and in order to obtain the right to exclude from the system, the user must prove that the planned alternative solution to the supply of heating or cooling results in significantly better energy efficiency. The law also contains provisions that promote the use of renewable fuels, particularly biogas and hydrogen. It is thus prescribed that the gas transport system operator and gas distribution system operator are obliged to assess, where relevant, whether the existing gas network infrastructure should be expanded to facilitate the inclusion of renewable gas. This law also provides for a transitional and final provision that energy approvals issued in accordance with the Regulation on the use of renewable energy sources and cogeneration, the Regulation on criteria for the granting of energy approval for production plants, which do not constitute a contract for the establishment of a right of construction or the right of service in accordance with Article. 16 and the applicable laws will be concluded in accordance with the provisions of Article 16 of the Treaty establishing the right of construction and the right of service with the competent ministry. The 17th century is the 25th century. The law on the energy market recently adopted in this esteemed home in the section relating to the establishment of the right of service or of building on real estate owned by the Republic of Croatia or the property owned by units of local and regional (regional) self-government. In order for the Republic of Croatia to achieve an ambitious renewable energy target in final energy consumption by 2030 and that none of the projects which, in accordance with previous laws, had any problems in the sense that the regulation had not been adopted would not have ended the same path and exposed themselves to any possible arbitration. Dear MPs, aware of the roles played by this Law on Effective Energy Transition and Economic Development of the Republic of Croatia, we propose that this esteemed home be adopted after today's debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80587	Thank you, Secretary of State. Let's go with the replicas, there are six of them, first up is counterpart Ahmetovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80588	Thank you very much. The Honorable President of HS, the Honorable Secretary of State. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. The 18th ministry has committed that the revision of the support will not be at the heart of the rights already allocated or at the heart of the project's economic sustainability. I would, of course, be happier if you had made a commitment that support would not be at the heart of those who provide these funds for these support, which are, of course, citizens. A compromise solution, which I noted in my first reading, I see in the reduction of the time limit in which the programme is revised, instead of five years, it is necessary to revise this support programme every year. In view of the high profitability of generous support, the acceptability of such projects for external sources of financing itself must take at least some risk, so let this be the time period for the revision of the support programme. In your reply to my remarks, you pointed out that this is too short a period of time since these support programmes are approved by the European Commission. To me, this reason, it's too short a period sounds a little funny because I could say that it's actually five years too long. I'd like to ask for a little more detail. an explanation for why you do not accept my objection. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80589	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80590	Thank you for your question. As regards audits, support and everything else, we have clearly defined here in the law that during the duration of the aid, during the duration of the contract we cannot afford any revision other than the one which we have brought with the contract and the support programme. There were some ideas in some governments before the introduction of various audits during contractual relations. It is inadmissible also by the European Commission, but by ourselves, we simply have to stick to what it is. As for the revision of the support we, or the support programme, have put in place deadlines that are normal and that are normal for our support programmes to be audited every so long and that they are possibly going to a new competition. So we can't revise the existing contracts if we've done it by one program, but we've been acting on it, and clearly every so long we'll be doing new support programmes and in as much as we've predicted together in this... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80591	Thank you. Comrade Daus, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80592	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, I only have one question left here. So I'd like you to explain how in practice the silent connection authorisation mechanism will work. We know how HEP functions unfortunately on the ground in some situations. It's quite realistic that HEP doesn't come out in those months, it's formally believed that the license exists, and then what the investor does, how to merge exactly, and what for HEP means to power plants that they don't actually know exist and how it affects the network, if you can say it briefly, because practice, I believe, is a good intention, I don't doubt it at all, but the theory is one, the practice is repeatedly different and how to make it all work properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80593	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80594	Thank you. We have written this article because it is the same and envisaged by the directive and we agree with this article and we think that by our continuous communication with HEP ODS, which in this case is the one that is most often done by continuous communication and showing HERA about possible situations that are not respected by this literally forcing the distributor to stick to those deadlines. Is the whole intensity and this law is that all deadlines that are possible and depend on the state or someone who has to do with the state, and it is specifically owned by the state in a direct or indirect way that the deadlines are respected and that is what we will strive for and pursue.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80595	Comrade Totgergeli, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80596	Thank you, Your Honor, President HS, Your Honor, Secretary of State. In this home we often discussed facilities for the production of electricity and sun, and part of our colleagues even called it the Colloquial Mini Solars, we often discussed even when there were no laws related to energy. In 2018, however, we have adopted provisions that make it important to help the household in order to make it easier for it to install solar plants or to teach its production to HEP, and when they need it from HEP and to take electricity. And now what I'm interested in is, what are the trends from 2018 until now, how are they doing in the Republic of Croatia? mini tanning around houses and apartments?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80597	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80598	Thank you. As far as the 2018 trends are concerned, they are excellent because by 2018 we had 55 megawatts of installed solar plants, and today we are already approaching Croatia near 200 megawatts which are installed by those who are in the installation process, and when you know that only one solar power plant that is the largest, it is the one on the 2.5 megawatt Visa, it is the only largest, it means that it is all either by house or halls of industry and others. So we've done everything in this law to continue this process, but we've extended it to the energy communities of citizens, we've extended it to institutions, which so far has not been the case, so these are hospitals, schools and everything else, the rest of them, other institutions that are of interest to the wider community. So we expect, and clearly with the rise in energy prices, it's practically cost-effectiveness of this and more and more modern.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80599	Thank you. Comrade Pavić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80600	Dear Secretary, six, seven, eight years ago. There was a lot of writing and talking about floating hydrocentrals, floating hydrocentrals. Now in the world we have floating wind power plants, we have floating solar power plants. In this law, none of it is covered. Whether it is meant to be with something covered and contained in something or whether it should be defined specifically by a rule or otherwise that it can be implemented at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80601	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80602	Thank you. As far as floating solar power plants are concerned, this law has no obstacle to floating solar power plants. The only law that could prevent floating solar power plants is the Nature and Environment Protection Act. So when we talk about floating power plants we mean primarily calm waters, no, no, not the sea and these big ones, big, big seas and lakes, ponds and everything. We have the knowledge that there are different initiatives, but clearly this initiative will depend most on how the Nature Protection Administration reacts and I think that when it comes to intensive farming in fisheries, there will be no obstacles to floating solars, as we talk about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80603	Comrade Oreshkovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80604	Thank you, Chairman. The esteemed representative of the promoter, digital and green transition, and the promotion of the production and use of renewable energy as it is addressed in this law seems to me only as a list of beautiful desires. In fact, we would all support this, but in order for this to be feasible, a good system-level organisation is needed, and this is not possible without trust in the competent institutions and state bodies of HERA, HROTE, as well as the Ministry of the Environment and Energy Efficiency, and I see further 3 basic problems, which is that many incentives are given through the fastest finger. We have not removed the interference or the conditions that this is no longer happening. Second, they said suppliers would have to make sure that consumers get the information they need, which is what will happen if it is not done. And the third thing is this conclusion of a contract with the Ministry of Service and the right to build. We have no control over the content of these contracts again. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80605	Thank you very much, dear colleague Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80606	As far as transition is concerned, it's not a list of good wishes, it's concrete, this is in this part of the last law that we've passed in front of this house. The law on the electricity market has quite worked things out, and this one just continued them. We are not the ones in the situation now to wait for what will happen but to actively participate in what and how and how. So we follow everyone and everything they do, all possible shortcomings we've removed from these laws, and we'll make sure that all the energy approvals that are approved to follow are at what stage so that every time and your question in this esteemed home can be answered when and how much will be done. As far as the fastest finger is concerned, he's only present at the Environmental Protection Fund in the part where the interest is so high, and the funds don't have enough to make it possible. As for the premium He's going to go to a public tender, there's no quickest finger [[Intruder: Thank you.]] than who's more favourable. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80607	Comrade District, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80608	Thank you, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, that just when you were talking about the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, we know that yesterday the first phase of the application ended for, to the competition for the energy reconstruction of houses and for the installation of a system for the use of renewable electricity sources. So here is the data that over 8,850 applications have arrived and that 390 million kunas are available as well as increased allocated funds. I wonder if you think there will be enough money, funds and whether these competitions will continue for a little more frequent periods, because the last competition was as much as I know in 2015.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80609	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80610	This is a lot of funding, and I hope that these funds will be sufficient. If they do not make it clear that they will continue from the new financial perspective and funds of the fund, which, which are not unsatisfactory, since the price of emission units has already crossed EUR 60, means that the fund has, has enough resources for such projects, for such projects. It is clear that it is important to monitor and implement these projects, that they happen and that this and parallel to these funds that you mentioned here, 400 million kuna from the National Recovery Plan, will be allocated to companies that were also in competition before, and have failed to obtain funds because there was not enough funding. So besides this, we're going with a new one, with new ones, so we're expected to have a serious amount of solar panels by the end of 2022. that they will be installed by means of these funds. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80611	Comrade Brumnic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80612	I am sorry that there is no minister here, but I am sure you remember how your ministry defended the third degree of purification in Zagreb and stood on the side of a concessionary who made enormous profits at the time. All that I see in this law appeared between the two readings suggests that investors here too will make enormous profits on behalf of Croatian citizens. Now your opinion of why some of these things appeared in the law between the two readings, without practically being mentioned anywhere in the debates.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80613	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80614	I don't see where you found it that this law will make enormous profit, it absolutely doesn't stand. I categorically refuse those, I understand you well that you have said, that the work is done, that the privates will now make enormous profits. No, that's out of the question. We're going to encourage only at the reference price. The reference price will mean in the competition to determine which one is the top reference price. On, according to the latest projections, EUR 58 was in a support programme approved by the EU. And we won't change it too much. It will be here somewhere, EUR 58, EUR 60 will be the reference price. Yeah, what enormous profits for, for privates? If the reference price is EUR 58, we do not give lip to it. That's it for you. We won't give much more money, almost nothing. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80615	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. You're done with your replicas, please return to your seat. Are the committee's reporters now going to take the floor? No, then I'm opening a debate. The first is counterpart Zekanovic, but he is not there, so he loses his right to speak. The second is a colleague of Totgergeli on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80616	Thank you, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear state secretaries with co-workers, colleagues and fellow MPs, in order to increase the share of renewable energy in final consumption in line with the energy transition targets for the low carbon economy as early as 2015, we passed the Law on renewable energy sources and highly efficient co-generation. We are currently at 28% of renewable sources in total final energy consumption while our target has been set to 20%. More than a thousand megawatts of new production plants on renewable energy sources and highly efficient cogeneration have been built in the incentive system. However, still a large share of renewable energy sources for heating and cooling are based on the use of heating wood in the household, and that is why it is necessary to make a step in the greater use of new technologies that use renewable energy sources, and can meet the needs when it comes to heating space or hot water as well as cooling. The latest amendments and additions to the law have made significant progress particularly when it comes to the production of electricity for their own needs in distributed production facilities. I will remind you in 2018, we have also introduced users of self-supply facilities where we have enabled such a user to build our own self-supply facility and transfer extra energy into the network, and when there is a shortage it takes from the network electrical energy. We have practically ensured that there is a way to store energy from such customers and this is a calculation within the accounting period where the user pays only the difference of more energy from the network. This was primarily made for solar power plants. In this bill, of course, we are in line with the directives that were adopted after the last amendment, but also with the electricity market law adopted, so we are introducing new participants in the active buyer and energy community into this law. Special attention shall be paid to information on administrative procedures and to the understanding of the procedures for project holders and constructions wishing to invest in renewable energy. Furthermore, guarantees of origin currently introduced for renewable electricity are extended to cover and gas produced from renewable sources. The paper in relation to the existing law is also the introduction of opportunities to join with other member states voluntarily i.e. join our national support programme or partially coordinate it. A simple notification procedure for connection to the network, power generation plants shall be established up to 10.8 kW and physical connection to the electrical network within a month. The ministry can raise that maximum power from 10.8 kW to 50 kW. A contact point shall be introduced to see an energy market operator providing guidance at the request of the applicant during the whole administrative procedure of submission of applications and the authorisation procedure for the construction of a renewable power plant. In order to calculate the share of energy from renewable sources, reports shall be introduced in a transparent manner in accordance with the Regulations, but shall also define energy sources. So now we have a division into the energy source of solar radiation, wind energy, hydroenergy, geothermal energy, biomass energy, sea energy and unspecified and other renewable energy sources. The law also regulates clear rules, scope and dynamics of providing support in line with the possibilities of planning development, construction and modernisation of energy systems, all for the purpose of meeting the new national target for the use of renewable energy from at least 36.6% of renewable energy sources in final gross energy consumption by 2030. In relation to the text in the first reading, the proposer was listed in the final proposal of the Law to renewable energy sources and highly efficient cogeneration by respecting certain proposals, remarks and opinions between the first and second readings. The HDZ Club will support this final bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80617	The second club to speak will be the IDS Representatives Club and the esteemed colleague Emil Daus. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80618	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I won't be very long. There three years ago when I first came to the Parliament, I didn't think I'd do this, but I want to commend the HDZ Ministry who accepted a good part of our proposals and I was even surprised. So the proof is that through a constructive debate one law can be reached, of course we are not satisfied and not all is accepted, and only here at one three points will I manifest myself, so I won't be a debt. On the question of my first reading, whether the same owner will be able to produce electricity on one cadastrian particle where it has a connection point, and it is used on the second catastrian particle where there is another connection point and whether, under such conditions, that 80 % of the connection power can be used on the basis of the sum of more electricity consent, the answer is that consumption must be at the site of production. It's not widely described, it's not very argumentative, but it looks like a pretty solid attitude, and I guess here it was trying to protect itself from possible speculation, which is fine, and of course we're up to it. In practice, however, there may be a need as stated. on one property can be a connection place in several particles or more connected places, more went into this context from good intentions to practice, not guilty, so perhaps still remains, the scratch will actually show and eventually all laws are subject to some amendments, additions and sublaws. The other was about that I had before in the replica and my colleague Totgergeli also mentioned that part, that's what in Art. 31. where the power of 10.8 kW is defined and it is stated that the operator has a period of one month in which it must approve or reject a request for the connection of the manufacturer based on a simple notification, there may in practice be it ineligible or almost impermeable because the connection to the power grid without approval is in some way illegal, even when it becomes legal through this quiet mechanism, the safety risks of connection to the network under the voltage shall not be excluded, the distributor shall switch off the voltage on the connection cabinet with which the investor does not have access, because only the distributor has the key, etc., and the applicant points out that this remark is working on Article. 17. EU Directive 2018/21 provides for a simple network connection notification procedure, and all Member States shall establish a simple network connection notification procedure, whereby the installation or united production units of consumers of their own renewable energy and demonstration projects with an electrical capacity equal to or less than 10,8 kW or equally valuable for non-trof-phase connections are connected to the network after notification to the distribution system operator. Furthermore, in the event that such capacity is exceeded, there is still the possibility of joining the network but at that time it does not take place through the simple notification procedure for network connection, but in a regular process, taking due account of system security. In this part, the Proposer calls for a directive, I don't know what this directive is based on, but in practice this can be very difficult in Croatia, we have talked about this before. It is simply technically impossible for the HEP power plant to be connected to the network, it would be good to explain, he explained before in part, almost entirely the silent approval mechanism I realized, if I understood correctly that it would actually be pressured against HEP, HEEP ODS to respect that deadline for a month. I appeal once again, I understand, but once again I appeal to be persistent in this because in practice investors have big problems, performers or already those who are there with HEP or representatives on the ground of this deal. And lastly, on the question of my first reading, whether the funds will be raised from CO2 trading, which have so far been the income of the Environment Fund, and under the proposal of the law are being poured into CROTE, the promoter points out that the practice within the EU is that the energy market operator is partly financed from CO2 emissions, and energy transition is further financed by the funds. In this case, unlike the previous one, it does not refer to a directive but to practice. What's only questionable is how many fid-in tariffs are even practice in European countries. The fund has, the fund has a much more efficient bar so far deployed funds to a wider range of measures and users, CROTE would reroute funds exclusively to entities that have priority electricity generation, okay, but systems that are self-sustainable and don't really need co-financing. Here's my chance to commend again. The truth is that we've been constructive, but we've seen more than once, but this time we've seen one positive reaction on the other, and maybe this is an example of how new laws that are not ideologies or worlds actually work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80619	The 3rd club to speak is SDP's club and respected colleague Mirela Ahmetovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80620	Thank you very much, esteemed President HS, the esteemed Secretary of State with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. First of all, the differences between the first and second readings of the law. In the document published in addition to this final proposal, the law states that the applicant has made certain amendments in the final draft of the law, including, for example, amendments to the article. No. 51st century 1st. 4. which in your first reading, you wanted to limit the takeover of surplus electricity produced from renewable sources to those final customers with their own production and self-supply users whose connection power towards the supply of electricity to the network does not exceed 80% of the connection power in the direction of the takeover of electricity from the network. Well, that's not what the Proposer has changed on his initiative. I'm personally on behalf of the SDP Club, that's exactly what I'm looking for. A colleague, Daus, was close to a similar clue to the change. As far as your change is concerned, not only have you not self-initiatedly changed but you have actually given up the change because such a provision has already been defined by the law of 2018, and you wanted this law to take a step backwards and ask for a small fee of 100% and to accept the benefit of 80%. Not to mention negative repercussions that would have led to the achievement of the 36.6% renewable energy target by 2030. So, it's no shame to say the SDP Club has proposed and there's something we've accepted, but it doesn't matter who suggested, if you're self-initiative, I'm truly truly pleased that you're back to that original version of the law. As for the objections that you state as those you did not accept and explain the reasons why you did not accept them, I regret to conclude that the rest of my comments I made or put on the Committee on Environmental Protection, as well as those in the debate on behalf of the SDP Club, except for the one I spoke about earlier. This law, unfortunately, will not meet its objectives, and will remain the opposite of the EU directive at least in the area where the EU is committed to civil energy because it will continue to favour large and small ones. She's still in art. The 51st provision of monthly electricity billing instead of annual, and as I was saying during the first reading, it is known that higher production is in sunny months when at the same time lower consumption is compared to those of non-sun if we talk about solar energy. Moreover, small producers continue to be charged an incentive fee even though they are already producing electricity from renewable sources and, of course, it is illogical that they have already contributed to this production itself, and are now also contributing to the payment of this incentive fee. In this context, the proposer thought of protecting or pardoning only companies that are entering a business crisis, and as regards citizens of renewable electricity producers, the applicant does not have such sensitivity. In the whole of the law, what is most interesting is, of course, what is part of the law relating to the State aid programme, and it has been made interesting by the results of previous support that did not go in favour of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who finance these support, but in the favour of individuals who have been allowed to do so from the pockets of those same citizens, and this remains a problem in the law. That is why I remain at the point of view that I have expressed on the Committee on Environment and Nature Protection as regards the formulation of art. 16th century 3. which says that the support programmes for electricity from renewable sources are designed to ensure, among other things, that renewable energy producers increase their market revenues may be an unfortunate formulation, but I'm really afraid simply not clear enough formulations may not really be a bad intention and we don't have to be afraid of anything, but here I love that everything is clean, black on white and there are no doubts in which to swim and in which direction citizens actually pay for it all. Therefore, the objective of the aid should be to encourage as much production of electricity as possible from renewable sources, but, with as little incentive as possible, impose on citizens. And the share of premium support by authorised producers in their total revenue from first electricity should, of course, be as small as possible. Let us not forget that these same producers, and we are talking about large producers, and in particular, these energy producers, through wind power plants and geothermal sources, of course for already known reasons, huge affairs, corruption affairs, also have stimulating contracts with HBOR which, through commercial banks, provide a very low interest rate for such projects. So let them take the right entrepreneurship rick if they are already referred to entrepreneurs as producers, for example, in Germany. So the price in Croatia can't be the last 5-6 years between EUR 90 and 110 and market 50. You know what it's like in Germany? EUR 49. There are EUR 55 in Serbia, here is the latest information. The Secretary of State said 58, I hope that's really how it's going to be, we'll see about that. It will be enough, more than enough for large ones, since we know that investment in large power plants is about EUR 700,000 per megawatt, and let's say that in small solar plants is about EUR 1 million per megawatt, so 30% more expensive investment for those small in the beginning. In any case, these laws also pay a small fee for renewable sources and pay for the development of a network for large ones. Small nets don't need them, they need big ones, at least not in that range. So you understand what I'm saying, the kid doesn't need a boost, they need a big one. Little people just need a fair system so they don't take it to give it big. That's what I'm afraid of. In Article 18, as I said in my replica to the Secretary of State, the ministry has committed that the audit of the support will not be at the expense of the rights already granted or at the expense of the economic sustainability of the project. And it's okay with that legal formal basis, but I'll repeat once again I'd be happier if the ministry commits that support will not be at the expense of those who provide the funds from which they are generated, which are citizens and of course I still represent the position that the revision of the support programme, not the contracts, should be more frequent than it is 5 years. And no, I won't accept such a simple explanation for five years is too long. The SDP Club continues to argue that it is necessary to install in the law a provision which will ensure that large production facilities or large power plants covered by the quota regulation are exempt from the market premium or guaranteed by a ransom price. This will prevent non-transparentity and corrupt activities in this area will also increase the production of electricity at the site of consumption. We're talking about buildings, OPGs, micro-enterprises, small or medium-sized enterprises and commercial facilities. And it is those who pay compensation for renewable energy sources and the full budget of the Croatian energy market operator. In fact, these large power plants cannot be an incentive to the expense of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia but must be on the market as well as in other EU countries. I will list just a few data from 744 megawatts of wind power plants, for example our HEP built one single in Corlat 58 megawatts, and now another not hep of course opens, but China of 156 megawatts, and only this wind power plant takes over 50 km2 of Croatian surface area and Croatian territory. Even though HEP as a public company has used the funds of citizens who have collected and built their own or their wind power plant of all citizens because HEP is still a public enterprise if it does not change in the meantime, we do not give it to individuals and to domestic and foreign individuals who are rich across the back of our citizens, we also give Croatian territory, while HEP achieves between a billion and a half billion kuna profits. So HEP has extra money, but electricity prices don't cut, but it does increase. So I'm just going to point out the fact that here I am in the local power supply unit this year, and I got HEP's offer, of course, in a public tender that was almost twice as high as the previous offer. Therefore, the prices of electricity will grow, growth and household prices, or for citizens, let us not deceive the public, but HEP needs such a large profit not to invest in reducing electricity imports but to sponsor its PR, of course not to be investigated or questioned. And in this law, we acknowledge that the most important source of funds to pay off these incentives is just a means of compensation for renewable energy sources and cogeneration. Paradoxically, it is paid by all citizens of the Republic of Croatia who pay electricity bills, pay those who have nothing to pay for the same electricity. Plasticly, the state spends these same fees in a strange way granted privileged conditions for large producers, i.e. to return to those same citizens what they paid and overpaid. The SDP club is not going to support such a law that suits large ones at the expense of small ones. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80621	As the fifth, a respected colleague, Zeljko Pavić, will speak on behalf of the Social Democrats Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80622	Dear President of the Assembly, dear secretary with associate, colleague and colleague, I will look back at a few new things that we have in the law, and what we will welcome is something similar that a colleague from the IDS has welcomed, and I will not repeat what you have already said, but I will say what we have noticed and what we welcome. There is, among other things, an article that says that a new production plant is considered to be a reconstruction of an existing plant if it includes significant parts of the production plant and if it extends the expected duration of the production plant and that it meets several conditions when we are actually talking about the construction of new plants. Since we're talking about the reconstruction of an existing facility here, we're going to look back on what was written in the previous version of the law, which is that one of these conditions is also the age of the existing power plant. For, specifically for hydropower plants, for 30 years, for biomass power plants 20 years, biogas 20 years of bioaccumulation 20 years, solar power plants 20 years ago, and it was written earlier that it was for wind power plants for 15 years, and now in this version the law says 20 years, and we welcome it since last time we were at the last reading we talked about it and they were critical of it as an unacceptable fact since we saw practice from Europe, for example. from Spain to have wind power plants last about 20 to 25 years. So that's one of the things we definitely welcome. We do not know that in the law, of course we do not need to write it in the law, but we had discussions here about the production of biogas or biodiesel in Sisak, I do not know if there are any other plans related to the possible production of electricity in Sisak, given that there are already some plants there, whether there is a plan for Croatia to make such a refinery and a power plant, since we already have energy there that would allow us to actually have renewable energy sources. What bothered me a little bit is the mention of the register of renewable energy sources to cogeneration and privileged producers. That's what I was talking about on the board yesterday, I didn't get the right answer, and it's that this register is according to what the law says, namely no mention of the term or the word that it is mandatory, but given what it is used for and that it will be used among other things for reporting on the National Energy and Climate Plan adopted in 2019. That's what it says in the article of the law, I believe that the register should be binding. And with the simple insight into that register that's being monitored now, we can say that the register is not complete at first, so there's not all the... that you should have, and the second is that no data on all the power plants that exist on a particular territory. I've specifically tried it on the data from our county from which I come, so data from Krapina-Zagorian County and I can tell you that actually there aren't all the data in that register about all the power plants, which is not good. Which is not good because, first and foremost, the power plants are financed partly from European funds and partly from the budget. There were also partly grants, and now there are no such power plants recorded anywhere, and they should be recorded that's the first thing, and secondly, those power plants are actually selling electricity to HEP, so that even from that position there should be something written in that register about these power plants. In addition, new education programmes or retraining and employment programmes related to green energy are mentioned, of course we welcome this, but the competitions will soon be required to work on these power plants, we will need installers for these power plants. Whether we will succeed in making new educational programmes in the meantime, whether we will succeed in making programmes to requalify our people for these jobs and whether we will succeed in hiring them in such a short time, I doubt it. Again, it happened to us that we actually have one discretion over our needs. In fact, if we were to pass such a law we should have gone to such educational programs sooner, we should have had them before in our high schools and we should have had them in adult education programmes among other things and programmes for retraining individual professions. I don't know if you're familiar with the fact, but in certain counties there really are no installers of any kind. And now what's going on? If you don't have an installer that's as close as you can get to retraining these people? You're going to have a hard time retraining the accountant to be an installer on the roof or some other facility, so I don't think that's good, and I think we should have done something about it sooner. Of course, it says in the law that other ministries will be working on that part, I suppose it should be the Ministry of Education, but the Ministry of Education has done nothing about it so far, and we are actually left to the enthusiasm of high school principals and those who know the problem that will happen in the future and who are actually looking for new programs and pushing these programs in their schools, if they push them and if they are able to do them, given that there are no curriculas for such education. In addition, the law mentions a part about information, and I am interested in the phase in which we are informing our citizens, which I asked in the last debate, are we going to have some services informing our citizens whether our citizens will be able to ask questions other than in the ministry about their power plants that they will put on their roofs and what about local self-government units? Whether local self-government units will have any other transport besides private entrepreneurs who know the problem and who, as consultants, can provide consulting services related to the construction of power plants, especially if they go to the community of electricity consumers. When asked about the wandering power plants you answered me and I think it's okay, except for what I just asked you if it's possible at sea, given that some countries have wind power plants at sea, in the north of some countries have wind power plants at sea in the north, some countries like Brazil have solar power plants at sea, so I believe that we will be interested in doing it on our sea, especially in that part that is not interesting for tourism and is not interesting for customers. This reference price I suppose my colleague Brumnic will say more, but what I was interested in if you could answer me later in your later debate, who will define this reference price? Whether we define ourselves as a State or we are dependent on one part and on Europe. So, is there something in Europe that dictates to us, or can we define the reference price ourselves? And what I'm still interested in is about certificates. Namely, the Law states that the Ministry of Construction Affairs recognises the certificates to be assigned by another Member State in accordance with the criteria prescribed by us. What interests me is whether our certificates will also be recognised in other Member States, i.e. whether our employees or workers who have made requalifications that have acquired certificates or through schooling in secondary schools or through the retraining of the power of these jobs will have no problem in the Member States or will have to do a recertification or I am interested in whether Croatia is in some negotiations with members of the European Union so that our workers can work in Europe without recertification. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80623	Thank you, too. We're done discussing clubs. We're going to individual debates now. We've got two reported. The first is the colleague Brumnic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80624	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Ah, where are you going? Let's get out of the environment, HEP, why do I mention HEP? Because it's the company that has the biggest profit in the Republic of Croatia. Are we aware of that? The largest profit in the Republic of Croatia, no company in the Republic of Croatia has more profits than HEP. Why? Because it was made possible by the government. And then ask yourself how a good law how one commendable idea that the European Union has for green energy, energy self-sufficiency, which Europe began to implement the truth for a will 4.5 years ago because this directive that we are building on there today in 2018 turns into something called HDZ. Why am I saying that? Because they did what they were supposed to do when a law was passed, which is to analyze the effects of the laws so far, which is what every time I go out for this pay phone I talk about when we talk about making either a new or an amended law. No, why not? Because the previous law has taken several HDZs to prison. The DORH examined a bunch of documentation signed there, and when you read what is written in these amendments to the Law, then you realize that all changes between the first and second reading go de facto and favorite investors. Each change as a cover of investment protection actually removes the risk from the investor and transfers the risk to Croatian citizens. Here, colleagues before me talked about large and small, in Croatia there should be no large and small, it should be those who pay taxes, which contribute to this society and those who do not contribute to this society, or benefit from this society. Those who contribute most to this society are Croatian citizens. Conclusion: Chapter 1 of this Law should read: “How this Law will contribute to the better and better life of Croatian citizens, how we will help, not help,” but allow the young to get involved. In this law, they scream exactly the opposite, how to disable them. A colleague mentioned something that was said in the first reading, the second reading does not explain why it was changed. The first reading said 15 years, now says 20. A colleague who then writes that, now says 20, that a colleague who talked about it called it a crime and now writes 20. I have to admit from that I only conclude that when it was called crime it was true if it changed. When you look at it, the Ministry is being arranged as a contact point, that contact point is something that let's tell us Europe suggested we do, it turns out to be one good place to do the whole job, but the job of the manual is how things should be done, by the operator. Then it turns out that the Ministry that actually determines and receives investors would actually be the point of lobbying, literally, to be the point of lobbying. A colleague mentioned an article. 21 I interpret it completely differently when it comes to the reconstruction or the construction of new ones. Try to put yourself in a 100% income model for 7 years, you have to pay it in 20 years, the difference will probably encourage the State if you want there to be an investment. If you divide 20 by 7 somehow, or 7 by 20 then it turns out that your profit at the annual level is 35%. And so I pulled the parallel with the third degree of purification in Zagreb with which this ministry was more than familiar in the past period and where it was practically a person would say defend. Article 23 is also disputed since the debate comes to an end and Article 24 and Article 30(2) which de facto defines. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80625	It's been a while. Here's a replica. That's right. [[So maybe I can make some of this work in her.]] Comrade Oreshkovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80626	Thank you, Chairman. Here's a colleague of mine you've kind of pointed out that the problem is that this law goes in favor of large ones, and at the heart of small ones, and somehow you said that it shouldn't be in the Croatian system. Personally, I don't think that's the biggest problem. They can always be large and small, provided that there are clear and transparent criteria, a system of supervision and control and transparency, and absolutely none of this is in our system. This law lacks fuses, no anti-corruption mechanisms. And you've made a good point of putting the ministry as a focus point, as a lobbying point, and we've seen an example of a minister we refer to as T.C. I don't know if he has a name or a last name, because he doesn't appear in the House on important issues. What it looks like when we don't have effective, fast, effective law enforcement bodies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80627	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80628	Well, I can only actually agree with most of what you said. When I was talking about big and small, I was talking about things that contribute to society and those that make money out of society. I believe that society should encourage those who contribute to society, and you and I are aware that they contribute most to the fact of Croatian citizens. So I say we should have encouraged them first. As for the transparency you're talking about, transparency always comes from your head. If it is the prime minister who is transparent then all his ministers and ministries and all state officials will be transparent. When the Law on the City of Zagreb was passed, I invited the prime minister to read again what he had sent, or what his services had sent to the Croatian Parliament, and so I invite him this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80629	Now reported on behalf of the proponent, State Secretary Ivo Milatić, five minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80630	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished parliamentary representatives and MPs. I am obliged to react and use these five minutes after Mr Brumnic's presentation, because I categorically refuse to discuss HEP in this way, the ministry, of us who propose this law, to twist the thesis. Telling me to come back from those 15-year wind power plants. To say that we're here because someone mentioned some crime, put it now on 20 is deplaced. So these wind power plants with 15 years of duration were in the law that entered 1.1.2016. see this brought by the Government of Zoran Milanovic and the Minister of the then Vrdoljak proposed this respected home and it was adopted. See, in 2018, we do change and supplement laws, leaving that lifetime the same as it was. No one here on the left or on the right slows that part, but that's fine, for 15 years there has been. The last time Mr Bernardic here said he didn't like it, that it might be corrupt meaning he recognized corruption in his ranks in a way that he concluded that the then proposer might have wrongly put it. I don't see it that way that it might have been so scary, but that it hurt your eyes, which would have been said in the Dalmatian dictionary of those five years is the difference. I said here at this table then that if some experts don't tell me why it's 15, it can't be 20, it's going to be 20. And clearly none of the experts told me it couldn't be 20. We put 20 on it, and I'm standing absolutely on it. And we don't have any dilemma at all. To say that HEP has a big profit, so free God that HEP doesn't have a big profit. It is best that in this country it is the only company that remains 100% in Croatian hands that does not have that kind of profit. When we talk about someone having a big profit, then he's got a big investment rating, then he can invest a lot, then he can be in debt to invest. He can do something that someone who's private won't do. He can make energy facilities, he can go to that part of the country where maybe someone as a private would never go and that's the role of the responsible state. So HEP doesn't spend his money on PR. HEP spends its money on investment and investment and take a good look at HEP's investment plan and how much investment it is and it will be more and more. HEP plans to invest by 2030 and a half megawatts in renewable sources, i.e. invest and create renewable sources, and it will certainly do so. That's not at all controversial. But you can't hep with a hundred, two million do it. Where did you get that idea? And when it is mentioned here that HEP is paid for the price of electricity, so don't fool Croatian citizens. The current now paid by Croatian citizens is 53 euros, with 240 on the video these days. Do not speak from this esteemed House of such untruth to the Croatian public. It pisses me off, it pisses me off like a citizen and a taxpayer. Don't do that. HEP doesn't pay expensive electricity to citizens. It is logical that you are in a public competition in your municipality and some entrepreneurs are now getting bigger offers because you are a category of entrepreneurship, because you are predicting this in a year ahead or two. There's supposed to be a correction of some electricity prices, but clearly, we're talking about citizens here right now. And the price you Croatian citizens are constantly calling for is the least bullying them, the price Croatian citizens will pay, and we will see which one they will be. So let's not say it like that and that was why I was reacting here now because simply HEP has invested in Corlat, will now invest in 120 megawatts of solar in Corlat and very quickly still in Stankovci, even in several places on Cres Hep will have 200 MW of renewable sources by 2024. It can Hep and it's okay. Could he have done more? Maybe he could've done more. But as far as this ministry is concerned, both these governments and these laws that we pass, none of these laws will stop HEP in any negative sense from being even more efficient and better, and not even a private investor because they are also interested in Croatia to create an energy transition.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80631	Thank you. We have four replicas. As far as I can see, first up is a colleague of Oreshkovic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80632	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mr. Milatić, you said you refused and you categorically refused to talk about some issues when the opposition called for corruption in such a way. So I warn you that, first of all, there should be a minister who is now supposed to be in charge of the Croatian Parliament because the Croatian Parliament is choosing him and the Croatian Parliament is controlling him. And you're in no position to speak to us with a tone of categorical rejection. And as for your way of interpreting HEP and the price HEP charges to Croatian citizens, it is your duty to explain to all of us why this price is forming. We will check whether she is adequate or not, and the citizens themselves will have their own position. Instead of your reporting that this price is appropriate and that it is not expensive, and you have actually said nothing concrete about the price itself, you should have explained why such a price was formed.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80633	Thank you very much. So just one thing. The secretary of state here is completely legitimate and legal because it's defined by our acts. He could be a minister, he could be a secretary of state, so everything was done okay. And what you objected to him was a rhetorical figure to me. So here's the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80634	Thank you, Mr. President. As far as I'm concerned, that's my ministry's position. I'm convinced it's my position and my government, and so is my personal position. I don't think I said anything if I categorically said that I was excluding any insinuation of corruption on what we're proposing here today both to the government's work and everything else. However, these laws, which I have been here for a year, have been regularly walking along with you, are being discussed in order to say and as much as possible better regulation would not have happened without God’s help, which might have been similar to what you mentioned, and which may have been the basis of some decisions and laws that some previous administrations have made, rather than this administration. That's what I wanted to say and nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80635	My colleague Jelkovac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80636	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Secretary of State, this law is actually very important for our future because it creates a framework for us to use renewable energy sources and I think it's a good thing that this proposal actually created a framework for those citizens in society who want to deal with renewable energy sources to do so. It is certain that the thesis here is that this proposal does not benefit all citizens, but only individuals think it is not true, and I would like you to explain it again because of our citizens. Because it is certain that in society everyone will not be involved as investors in renewable energy sources, but I think that is why it is important that we have those in society who will use it in the best possible way, and that citizens will be allowed in the part in which it is in their interest to also use renewable energy sources as it has already seemed. So please explain it one more time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80637	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80638	Thank you. It's clear what you said and thank you for your replica. So in this law it is clearly prescribed that a manual will be created which will be made publicly available on the Ministry's website. This manual means that every citizen and entrepreneur will mean what he is interested in the entrepreneur for some major projects, citizens for his project i.e. on your home and on your cottage, put on your property where exactly you see it and it will be written in one place which are all procedures, procedures for one citizen to become a producer of renewable electricity. That's what this law wrote and I don't understand how it can't be read from this law when it's detailed and who's going to be involved in making this manual because clearly it can't be the ministry itself. We have both HROTs and ODS and HOPS and everyone else and that's what you're talking about and here I agree with you that and the citizens... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80639	Thank you. A colleague of Ahmetovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80640	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State on your finding that HEP does not pay PR HEP has spent 300 million kuna in the last 4 years on various sponsorships and donations of which a very large portion of exactly the PR by press, media, for conferences etc. Secondly, HEP is not as a public enterprise aimed at achieving large profits, but at reducing the price for the highest quality services to its citizens. He did not invest in an investment cycle because by now he would have built a thermal power plant in Rijeka that had it been true and reduced in Rijeka that it was true and would have reduced imports to ensure cheaper electricity for citizens. And third, when will you finally realize that the power paid by the local self-government unit pays out of citizens' pockets? It's citizens' money, so the higher prices for my local unit are higher prices, higher costs to the Outcasts and the Nivics, not to anyone in the sky.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80641	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80642	It's your view of how much HEP pays. You have read the data, and I would ask you to read how much HEP has invested, how much investment is made based on this investment that will tomorrow result in the production and reduction of imports and cheaper electricity, how much employment is on this basis, how much GDP is raised on this basis, how much the rating of the Republic of Croatia, which has also reduced the cost of citizens when it goes to the bank and all of that. We can now make the thesis, thank God we've finished some economics we can now give a lecture about it. So don't say that so HEP can't have a profit. HEP must have profit and the greater the better, the only question it is where it spends and why it serves. For the PR, I'm sure he's serving and HEP is helping out the good stuff. You can see the sign of HEP on each of our teams. If that's bad, then tell HEP it doesn't work. So I don't know why... [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80643	Thank you very much, dear fellow Secretary of State. The secretary of state is over. Ten seconds. [[I'm sorry.]] Here's a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80644	Thank you very much. The violation of Rules of Procedure of 238th State Secretary demeans my statement. And don't impute the Secretary of State to me. So I did not say it was bad for HEP to sponsor any Croatian team, but I said clear data, verified data 300 million kuna in 4 years of donation, sponsorship and on the media, media not to question their criminal activity.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80645	Your colleagues Ahmetovic are being warned. This wasn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure. This was a replica. Comrade Brumnic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80646	Dear Secretary of State, HEP invests less than half of its profits annually in new projects. Isn't that weird to you? And speaking of knowing the economy, I'm sorry he's not the minister here, I wanted to ask him who gave him the passing grade for the things you're defending in this way, and I see you're an economist, too. I have to admit, I don't understand how you understand the state's functioning system in which citizens pay a high price, in order for a state-owned company to have a large profit in order to pay a profit tax and finance sports clubs. That's what you de facto said HEP should do. HEP should deliver a service to citizens at as low cost as possible with more quality investments, i.e. maintenance of the system as we have.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80647	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80648	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, HEP was chosen voluntarily by Croatian citizens. 85% of Croatian citizens took HEP as a supplier. Up to one of those 85% tomorrow he can take someone else. So you're imputing that Croatian citizens don't know that HEP's electricity is cheaper, better, more efficient than anything else. When you say that HEP doesn't invest half of what it invests, it doesn't invest in new projects and investment in old projects of a type of hydro-re revitalisation potential, it's a clean investment in old projects. Right? What's wrong with that one... 450 megawatts lift or 450 lift to 650? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Where the price of this megawatt is in the revitalised part of 18 euros. That's why we have 53 euros in electricity. And that HEP is doing it wrong? I think he's doing well.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80649	I thank the Secretary of State. No more replicas, so she will now speak individually to her respected colleague Oreskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80650	The chairman, my fellow MPs and MPs. As regards the very way in which this bill is discussed, of course, that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the Secretary of State may speak on behalf of the Proposer, but you will all agree with me that the Secretary of State is still lower than the Minister. And since this is the second time we have discussed the same topic with the secretary of state, it shows that either the minister of this topic and this law is not so important or simply afraid to come to the Croatian Parliament and answer the questions of opposition representatives. As for the very essence of the law. So increasing the production and use of renewable energy is the goal that we all support and really need to support each initiative or every step forward, and it is also necessary to look for ways to improve and strengthen the solution proposed by the promoter. And here, we can all agree that this law has certain technical solutions that we can evaluate in principle well, but it is really not some great wisdom to rewrite these technical solutions from some European regulations or from those countries that have already implemented these same technical solutions. The real impact of these solutions in the Republic of Croatia will only be seen through their implementation and in practice. So you need to see how it functions blended into our system as a whole. And that's where we get the problem. And that's where we come up with those basic objections that I've been talking about all along. So this system of ours is set up on an unsettled, unsettled climate. There is no good implementation of any law, especially the law with such ambitious objectives that we all seek, without regulatory bodies having sufficient degrees of independence. Our regulatory authorities in the energy supply system do not have such independence. These regulatory bodies submit certain annual reports to either the Croatian Parliament or the ministries. Who discusses them and how? How many contents of these reports are available to Croatian citizens? How many representatives in the Croatian Assembly of Details do we know from these reports? Look at how many of us are here today in the council benches? That's one thing. Then we come to a question, and how do the leaders of these bodies choose? How important in the criteria of choice and appointment is indeed the factor of expertise and previous professional results, and how important political similarities, political acquaintances and relationships are. We have also talked about this many times in the Croatian Parliament, but there is no movement for the better. When we talk about the basic problems closest to Croatian citizens, we still do not know how to solve the problem of the fastest finger. So don't tell me that this is in line with the achievements of digitisation and some modern age, no promotion that would go towards the equal opportunities being available to all Croatian citizens and then finally we get to the Ministry itself, the Ministry that has indeed, I don't know the Secretary of State, do you know that? But a minister who has been very wet in corruption affairs concerning recent cases has granted the right to produce energy from renewable sources. I don't know State Secretary you're saying that if there were any corruption affairs in some kind of administration, which administration does the Minister of your Ministry belong to? Lobbies will obviously continue to be one of the main focus points of the corrupt government and corrupt ministers, one of the main weaknesses of the Croatian system. Is it so difficult to make a register of activities and meetings at the level of one ministry and all other state bodies? Increase transparency, availability of information on who attends which meetings, with whom and with what purpose. This would help to change the perception of citizens and what some MPs were talking about that this Law does not favor large ones, but it goes towards making the whole system work and between large and small, so there is some synergy and co-operation between large and small investors. As for anti-corruption mechanisms, it would also be sufficient to make one public register of all donations and all sponsorships especially in state-owned companies whose administrations and supervisory boards are elected by political criteria.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80651	Thank you very much. You have one replica. Here you go, fellow Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80652	You spoke about regulatory authorities and their independence. I think there's, I guess that's what's meant primarily on HER. I haven't been able to read from your presentation whether it's in your opinion about policy dependence, whether it's lobbying, about some corporations, if you can explain it a little bit, please. [[And on Hera Hrote, we can... down.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80653	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80654	Well, they certainly don't depend on small citizens. They depend on the big players, they depend on the policy they choose in these bodies, they depend on the people their further career and existence depends on. And how independent policy is, because politics is subject to major interest lobbys, this is a question for some other competent state bodies, for example for USKOK and DORH bodies whose work is independence and the criteria they are also under great doubt. So what I'm talking about is that we can support this law in a technical sense, but we'll still have a problem with the system. We can only change this system in the next parliamentary elections. And then literally all of these institutions that are just being mentioned in such a slow way without being thoroughly analyzed by their work, we're going to have to separate them like they're made up of lego cubes, so we're going to rebuild them on better, healthier, fairer foundations.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80655	Let's move on now. We don't have individual applications anymore, so we have the Clubs over. The first is the Club of HDZ Representatives, respected colleague Dreven Buddinski, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80656	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. The final proposal for a law on renewable energy sources and highly efficient cogeneration of this law regulates the framework for promoting the use of renewable energy in a sustainable way, regulates the planning and promotion of production and consumption of electricity in production plants using renewable energy sources and high cogeneration. Incentive measures for electricity generation shall be established, the implementation of the system of boosting electricity generation from renewable energy sources and highly efficient cogeneration shall be regulated. The implementation of financial support for their own needs is regulated, rules on legal procedures, information and training are prescribed through new educational programmes. The requalification programmes shall be governed by the management of the register, project holders and privileged manufacturers. The issue of renewable energy origin is regulated, the issue of international cooperation in the field of renewable energy sources as well as sustainability criteria for reducing greenhouse gas emissions. This Act regulates the acquisition of the status of a privileged energy producer for production plants using any of the primary forms of renewable energy sources and or highly efficient cogeneration in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. The use of renewable energy sources and highly efficient cogeneration achieves the obligation of climate objectives for the Republic of Croatia to reduce greenhouse gas emissions according to the distribution of the reduction obligation and achieves the interest of the Republic of Croatia in the field of energy established by the Energy Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia by the year 2050. Integrated national, energy and climate plan for the Republic of Croatia for the period from 2021 to 2030 The regulations governing individual market energy as well as regulations governing the implementation of energy activities in terms of decarbonisation of the energy sector, the achievement of the national target for the use of energy from renewable energy sources with the share of use in total final energy consumption in 2030 of the wider sustainable use of its natural energy resources. Long-term reduction of dependence on energy imports, efficient use of energy and the reduction of the impact of fossil fuel use on the environment, the creation of new jobs and the development of entrepreneurship, the promotion of the development of new and innovative technologies, the contribution to the local community, diversification of energy production and increased security of supply, the involvement of citizens and entrepreneurs in active participation in energy transition. This Act adopts Directive 2018/2001 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2018 concerning the prophesy of the use of energy from renewable sources. EU Directive 2018/2001 also provides for rules on financial support for the production of electricity from renewable sources on the own consumption of such electricity use for the heating, cooling and transport sectors of regional cooperation between Member States and third countries. The Directive also sets out the sustainability criteria, the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions to biofuels, liquid biofuels and biomass fuels. The EU's binding renewable energy target by 2030 is at least 32% of the share of renewable energy. The implementation of energy policy incentivising renewable sources of the Republic of Croatia has achieved an even exceeded target set by 2020, which is stabilised to 28% of the source in total energy consumption. However, there is still a large share of renewable energy sources for heating and cooling is based on the use of heating wood in the household and it is precisely why it is necessary to take a step in the greater use of new technologies, and they can meet the needs when it comes to heating space or hot water and cooling. A new Article 58, which sets out those programmes, states that, for the purposes of and the achievement of the Transport Sector, the Minister of Transport, will propose to the Government of the Republic of Croatia the adoption of a programme that promotes activity in the Transport Sector. The Ministry provides support, support for electricity and the use of renewable energy sources and highly efficient cogeneration of interest for the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80657	We are now going to a second debate, the Green-Left Block Representatives Club, a respected colleague of Bencic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80658	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State. I have spoken here several times about our basic concerns about investing in renewable energy sources, and our concern is actually about ownership of renewable electricity generation facilities. I do not know if I can stress enough how wrong and potentially threatening the energy independence and sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia have been chosen in the long term. This whole law, but also the whole strategy that your government currently has towards renewable energy sources, is primarily aimed at market-oriented companies and investment by private entities. What should be the Republic of Croatia's renewables strategy is that ownership of infrastructure is public and citizens' property. That's what any normal country who cares about having energy independence should do. This specifically means that we are not primarily in order to pay off so far incentives, now premiums to large investors, but that we are firstly aimed at encouraging, to provide funds for, for example, local self-government units to be owners of renewable electricity generation facilities, to be HEP as a state-owned company. I'll tell you an example. The geothermal power plant is one of the first in Croatia to be the subject of a huge dispute between a Turkish investor and a minority partner from Croatia, Dragan Jurilj, which gets you 140 million kunas of incentives by 2021 until the contract is worth one and a half billion kunas. At the same time, what did citizens and local self-government get from this geothermal source? What did they get? Did they get cheaper electricity? Did they get the ability to control that energy? So I guess our goal is specifically for geothermal resources to give them the management of these communities where these geothermal sources are found to have free heating for schools and kindergartens, to have cheaper energy for citizens, to have secured heating for all those at risk of energy poverty, so that they can manage it and manage the price. No, it's our view of renewable energy sources, which is yours exclusively of market nature, and that's deeply wrong. Because this was a great opportunity to ensure long-term public ownership of electricity production and to become independent and independent in the long term. When you look at how you have defined the national target of using energy from renewable sources, everything is clear. You've defined it with yourself. The national goal of using electricity is to use electricity from renewable sources to 36.6% by 2030 in final gross consumption. The goal itself is that. Instead of being targeted at concrete social benefits, electricity availability, reducing energy poverty, encouraging communities in the first place, not promoting the market. So, renewable energy communities. Here's a few times I've said that this approach will continuously cause you what you have in almost every major investment of renewables, which is that you have a corruption scandal because you put it that way. Croatia is currently El Dorado for these investors, the El Dorado feature with the incentive system we've had so far, and I'd be an investor 314 million kunas you invest, you get 1.44 billion incentives. So where's that?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80659	Thank you very much. We're going to the SDP Representatives' Club debate now. Finally respected colleague Mirela Ahmetovic please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80660	Thank you very much, well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. Let's go to basics first. It is the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who provide the means to function their entire lives in the Republic of Croatia and I ask you here, when we will finally adopt it. So this Parliament, and the ministries, and the units of local self-government and the rest of their life in the Republic of Croatia function because citizens from their own pockets pay to work whether these citizens, citizens, are end-users of electricity consumers or they are entrepreneurs who produce electricity, but also pay, invest their resources in this production and, of course, enable life to work. It is incorrect to talk about funds through categories of households or entrepreneurship. All of this is ultimately paid by citizens and those who have to pay and those who do not have to pay. So I repeat that paradox, citizens who do not have to pay electricity bills pay a solidarity fee from which part of the cost of these electricity bills is paid to those who cannot pay those bills. So they pay themselves a solidarity fee. All citizens pay, but absolutely all citizens pay themselves. So don't be angry when we question HEP's work, when we question HEP's profits, when we question electricity prices, and it's not the job of HEP to make enormous profits. The job of HEP is to achieve and provide a quality, accessible service to all citizens of the Republic of Croatia either through that sector of entrepreneurship, whether through the household sector but at the lowest possible price. HEP has done nothing on self-sufficiency and today we import 34% of electricity and therefore we charge this same electricity to our citizens the same ones that make life in the Republic of Croatia work. HEP and the amount of electricity available to citizens today precisely because of the lack of investments by HEP depends on rain. Why the rain? Due to hydropower plants, and also in this report by HEP on HEP's work, boasting that it was a good rainy season, so there's a hydropower plant that produced enough production. So we're not gonna be a serious country dependent on rain, are we? Our tourism depends on the rain. Now our energy depends on the rain. Let's not say that HEP makes a big profit and that's very good because it refers to a terrible investment cycle, while HEP doesn't have an investment cycle. There is a minor investment cycle, without talking about how to implement public procurement through certain projects, which are under investigation and the management of HEP is under investigation by the same administration that is elected today or interviews are being conducted for the selection of administrations. I don't care who gets elected. About transparency and not talking. We learn more from the media and those unsponsored of course, rather than from those of whom we should know from HEP itself. The laws in Croatia are all very well known by consultants and lobbyists. The level of investment is not informed to the public. So the public finds out from these media when a non-sponsored, non-sponsored medium gets some information about an affair, so that's what's written. We're a little surprised, but there's always the Golden Croatia-Scipek to cover everything that can and should be covered. Someone is benefiting from that, and it's a notorious fact that they simply don't have citizens, so they don't, and they won't even have through this law that we're discussing today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80661	We still have some more clubs to report for the final hearing. Now it is up to counterpart Pavić on behalf of the Social Democrats' Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80662	Dear President, the esteemed secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here's encouraged by the discussion of a colleague before me, and because she was actually talking about similar things that I was talking about in the debate, I have a few more words to say. I was talking about informing citizens, I was talking about educating citizens, I was talking about informing units of local self-government or regional self-government. It's that what my colleague said earlier if the citizens aren't referred to what they can, when they can, with what means they can, what they can get will certainly do nothing. But if we educate those citizens in time, if we inform them in time, if we give them all the information in the palm of the hand, then these citizens will surely go into investment and make certain smart business moves and then we will be one step closer to energy independence. If we are really going to give everything into the hands of entrepreneurs who are going to take great incentives from the budget or from EU funds, we will not achieve much that is certain. If you remember our discussions that we had here about HEP and that article in the law that says HEP will become a shareholder society, the whole opposition has responded to that. We're all... in the direction of preparing, in fact, the privatisation of HEP. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Whether it is true or not we heard the answer from Mr. Secretary that it is not true, but that it is actually a practice in Europe and that we are going in the direction in which Europe is going. It is not in all EU member states, but in a large number of Member States it is the case that actually national power plants are actually stock companies. And so unless we start a system of education, information in time, if we don't have agencies, people who will give information to our citizens, our units of local self-government free of charge, unless they're at their disposal, unless they're educated, we're sure to have a problem with keeping them both citizens and units of local self-government. Let us not forget that there is one expression in the law of the renewable energy community that allows stakeholders in these communities to be citizens of small and medium-sized enterprises, units of local self-government, units of regional or regional administration. Therefore, the law provides for it. But who are you to educate people if the projects for mini power plants are expensive, if we're going to be dependent on private entrepreneurs, consultants. I'm afraid few citizens will go into those investments. Therefore, on this point, we must take as much information as possible on time as possible, with the will that our citizens understand what they can, as well as that those in the city councils, who are in municipal councils, can react and can stimulate the development of power plants in local self-government units. It doesn't have to be just the head of the local self-government unit, it doesn't have to be the mayor or the mayor. It may be any citizen, but he needs to know what he can, when he can, and how he can. Without that, we won't achieve anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80663	Good afternoon, everyone! Thank you, Your Honor, Representative Pavić. And now we proceed with the closing statement on behalf of the Center and GLAS Representative Club, the distinguished representative of Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80664	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, a respected secretary of state with an associate. Here are a few final words regarding the final draft law on renewable energy sources and the highly efficient cogeneration that we have, we have in the second reading. What when it comes to this law is that I kind of have to go and I want to start with that basic thing, which is that the use of energy from renewable energy sources is to make the interests of the Republic of Croatia come true in the field of energy. It's supposed to be a kind of starting line, and we need to get out of it. And we need to see if this law really makes it possible. I have to admit that there somewhere in the transition from one century to another I've had opportunities to meet in different ways and see how we treat renewable energy sources, which is, which means using water, which means using waste, which means using sea level, or boiling the sea, which means using the sun, which means using the wind. And when you look at some twenty years behind us from the moment we started talking about it we actually use water quite efficiently and well, but not for the reason it was some new story, but because it was an old story and where water became a renewable energy source. As far as the wind and the sun are concerned, we're actually limping here. As far as the wind is concerned, we started the first wind power plant on Pag, but behind that was what we were showing all the time, which is that which could be the benefit of the Croatian economy or Croatian industry, because all parts of the wind power plants are being purchased elsewhere, here they only came together and possibly just concreted the foundations. As far as the sun's concerned, there's a different story. Likewise, we have already been taught the experience of some other countries with relative caution. When we look at the way we use renewable energy, I look at it with three aspects. One aspect is environmental, the other aspect is economic and the third aspect is sociological. When we talk about the environment, we have a series of strategies and a series of definitions and members of the EU, and somehow we have environmental impact assessments, impact assessments which are both strategic assessments and everything else so that this environmental aspect is, I would say, at least formally on paper, taking care of it. When we talk about this sociological aspect, this sociological aspect is related to the population that is being displaced, which is not there, where we have certain parts of the country absolutely no longer have people and some kind of investment in renewable energy sources in a good way, in a better way it could encourage and then we come to this economic effect and we have to ask ourselves what is really, what is our goal? What's our wish? Is it our wish when we talk about renewable sources, and now I'm going to refer exclusively to wind and sun to actually develop industry or produce some other countries? At one point they were neither EU countries, it was China that went the farthest. That's where they get the cheap stuff. And there's just as much of the work force that is, and it's shown on the wind power plants very well, actually, everything's being installed. In the end, they were also installing foundations and about a series of wind power plants were employed to you if he was on some kind of maintenance. So we need to know what we want, what we want. So, on the one hand, we want to leave a message that we are a country that is aware of decarbonisation and other elements, but on the other hand we should also take care of the development of our economy as these renewable sources of energy and indeed can run an economy. These are some questions that we have to ask ourselves and, of course, the key questions and I always try not to open those topics that one other of the previous speakers opens, but I think we should look at it from all aspects and this relationship of using renewable energy sources and economic effects would be very good at one point to look at and see, underline the line and see where we are and what we should do to be better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80665	Thank you, dear colleague Dark Taritash. And now, finally, on behalf of the promoter, we will be approached by the guest secretary of state Ivo Milatić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80666	Thank you, Vice President. I will use this final word, given that I am also in line with this Law that we propose before this House and which I hope will soon be adopted and the duty to take care as Ministry of Information to the Croatian public, and since this is being passed on, I hope that we will also share some information with the Croatian public. So as for the presentation of the esteemed representative Bencic, it's a classic example of how the thesis is twisted, how it's all shown completely the other way around than it really is. It means that it is to say that the ownership of the plants is badly set in the long term and that it will be a major problem for energy independence in Croatia I simply cannot understand what it means. What is this property of energy plants? So property is who owns them. Is this a foreign citizen, is he a Croatian citizen in the European Union where we are irrelevant. Most importantly, if Croatia needs 18.5 TW of electricity per year, and we know that it imports around 40% when 13% of the TW imported from the power plant in Krško means somewhere our imports are 27%. This is our goal, this is our topic that this Croatian state must make up for, and this means that by 2030, we have to have energy plants from renewable energy sources in the Republic of Croatia that will, without any problem, replace what we are importing today and we will have to be so smart that there will be more of these plants because count that slow transport will start to switch to electricity in every 1/3 of the total energy consumed today is almost 2 TW of new electricity that will need to be created in order for that traffic to move to electricity. So our goal isn't just... Croatian public are constantly imputing topics and thesis about expensive fiding tariff which is like... [[You don't understand.]] Money is being thrown at shovels. [[You don't understand.]] She has the Dalmatian “our eyes have sinned, and we eat sour grapes. ” I'm not going to talk right now about who made the mistake, who signed it, who introduced it, but it's kind of more of a left-wing thing than a right. But what happens today is that there are some power plants that get a big fiding tariff and no one says that MW of these fiding tariffs when it's invested was 35 million kuna, that 10 MW for that power plant cost 350 million kuna and that there's no market logic that without incentives can't be returned when we talk about the geothermal power plant of the Bricks. What's being said here is that we need to give the citizens infrastructure, so I'm listening and I can't come to my senses. So whose infrastructure is energy in the Republic of Croatia, rather than Croatian citizens? Because the CAPS is owned by HEP, and HEP is owned by Croatian citizens, i.e. Croatian state, because the ODS is owned by HEP, and HEP is owned by the Croatian state and complete infrastructure means portable this transmission and distribution is according to the Electricity Market Act for 50 years said it must be from the two companies. Why do I have to apologize here now that we're not selling HEP? Well, of course we're not selling HEP. What kind of lunatic would sell HEP? So why do we keep saying that? Citizens have their own security because they have what is most important, which is infrastructure, it is Croatian, it is Croatian. The highways are Croatian countries. Luke is on the maritime good they are Croatian countries. Airports are under concession, they are Croatian countries. What's the theme that's not citizens? It is clear that it is all Croatian citizens, that it is the Croatian state. This is our country, our mother. And to say that we give incentives, so who figured out what a premium model means? Did you read this law right here? It says there that if the one who's going to bid on the premium model tomorrow, what does that mean, the premium model? That we're going to say that there's about what I said the reference price is 58 or something euros, that means that someone who's a future producer will say ok tomorrow my price is simply a producer, I'm talking to you, 50 euros and I'm asking you to make up for those 8 euros in case the market price is below 58. And in case the market price on the market is higher than 58, you don't have to give me anything, but if I got 60, then I'll pay you back 2 euros. I don't think that's more transparent and purer. Of course, there's always an option for someone to say it's not worth it to me. Here's what we've all said. Here's what we've all said. And that's our theme. We're convinced, here we are just in correspondence, I think it's finally our support program for this great so-called. Too low before authorisation in the European Commission. And you'll see when people report to these companies on these competitions, and we'll figure out how much of the potential money we're going to give for it, and if the price of electricity on the market is going to grow, like the trend that the price of electricity is going to grow, we're going to give more and more, and eventually, maybe nothing. Maybe some of them will give up and say they'll go to market. So, the time of generous financing through the filling tariff comes out slowly already in 2024 most of them come out and clearly remain these last mochicans who went in late, but this system will be without a problem and it would agree with you as citizens, meaning the energy or money that Hrhote will then receive in future times then it is logical to start and focus on both concrete and civil projects, but by the time it comes in time, we can't reevaluate it now. What's important is to say that the register here was mentioned, that the registry was not required to notice you. We've noticed that there are some problems with meeting that register that our ODS and HOPS are kind of a little off the books, and that's where I agree with you, Mr. Pavić, that it's not normal for you to hit the Internet and not see the Elektrana you know exists, which has all the permits that it's not in the Register. We are that if you noticed in the Law now said that 90 days after the entry into force of this Act are all those who are obliged to bring data for the Registry to enter the Register and that in the future they have us in the Ministry supplying data and we will type it in neatly, because it is clear and legitimately your request, that if there is a Registry to Registra then it has to make sense, that means that it has some kind of dilemma of month, month and a half, and not a dilemma of a year, because then it doesn't make sense. So that's how we solved that part. What we've solved further if you haven't noticed and that's the first purchase of electricity from these producers that's going to be in the filling tariff by Hrote, because by logic we're buying all that electricity through Hrote because we're giving a generous filling tariff. When it is marketable, it is not a rule that we take that electricity, but we have put ourselves as an option that the state-owned Croatian electricity operator can estimate that in the future it is useful for him to buy that electricity in order to possibly sell that electricity to Croatian suppliers and perhaps help keep some kind of electricity price on a different scale. That nobody noticed that we wrote it and that I might be one smart, yes, yes, 10.10. Yes, for the next year, clearly. And these are the situations. What I can say is that, therefore, after we have passed the Law on the electricity market and now this Law, which I hope will be adopted in this esteemed home, we have created the preconditions for Croatia to achieve its objectives and to create power plants throughout Croatia in a way that all investors and one of the biggest investors will be HEP. I mean, we're talking here now, you keep thinking it's gonna be all private, but eventually almost half of these investments will make HEP renewables, because it's the logic of things to make these investments happen as transparently as possible, faster as possible. So we're giving energy approval in a public tender. We're giving the Prime Minister a public competition, and there's no fastest finger anywhere. We've put energy approval to the local community's contribution as well. The mention that local communities can't have their energy plants, so it's deplaced. So any local community can start its own local company owned by its local community and can neatly build its own power plant... electrical power plants, report to the premium model, use the European Union's incentives. In the carbon law that we adopted at the beginning of this year, we created development societies for geothermia, so for who? Well, for local self-government. I'm talking about this town of Zagreb that Mr. Matula here asked me about at that debate when they were hydrocarbons. I am still waiting for the City of Zagreb to come to the Ministry to see what we will do in the geothermal sense in the City of Zagreb and can't wait for them. Osset, for example, is making great progress, and they're seriously working on these wells that are near the heat in Osijek to make tomorrow what? Achieved 1.1 annual renewable sources in heat. How are we gonna do that? We can't achieve anything but geotherms and geotherms aren't cheap. The geotherm needs to be done through development societies, local self-government with European funds and aid from the State, and I agree, but then let's say that we saw it coming, and not that we don't know what we're doing here and how we're going to achieve our goals in thermal space. Clearly, heat lifts, heating and cooling on solar energy that we will produce from the collector in the coastal part of our country. And that's the whole story. So, first of all, I thank the Assembly MPs for the debate, the one who has always been constructive and interesting, and I promise this year I won't be coming to Parliament again, but at the beginning of the year you'll see me this one with other Bill proposals, and I look forward to adopting this law and I promise on behalf of the Ministry and the Government that sublegal acts that are important for the life of all of this will be passed on time and I will report you neatly. And just to give you one piece of information that's very interesting, especially with regard to these coastal MPs that aren't here, this one, and the ones that are here, and I'm also criticizing the end and the area that I come from. Here's to having this information. So in the last competition in HROT where 93 offers were offered for solar power plants, 75 bids were declared profitable. And so the total power of these power plants that should be built at some point is 13.396 megawatts. So the least reference price I'm talking about is 469 kuna per megawatt, and the most expensive is 630. So it's far from that kind of overpaid and some wonders, but now it's one incredibly interesting piece of information. It means of 75 approved projects 40 projects of sunny days of Osijek-Baranja County space. Good for Osijek. 10 projects Varazdinska, 9 Međimurska, 6 Vukovarska, 4 city Zagreb and now we come to the tragedy of Split-Dalmatia, Sibenik-Kninska, Zadarska, Splitska two, Sibenik one and Zadar one, Virovitička one and Zagrebačka one project. There's so much about when some MPs here say put our citizens on the roof, on the roof. And where are our citizens? I invite you fellow citizens to read the Electricity Market Act, you have aggregates, you can put on vacations, you only have supplies. Let's move! We, as a ministry, will do everything we can to get everybody moving together, because without it, there is no energy transition and I think it is smart for the sake of home budgets and for the standards of citizens that we are finally seeing and all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80667	Thank you, Secretary of State. You've already said goodbye to the MPs for this year, but you've got more replicas and you'll be hanging out with them for a while. The first in line is the representative Željko Pavić. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80668	My dear secretary, I'll have the information again. Why citizens don't have solar power plants on their roofs, they're not informed. Here I call you, please, in HEP, urinate and let HEP spend some of the money on a commercial to build solar power plants on the roofs of citizens to get to know the citizens. They have no idea. The local self-government units know where their chiefs, the mayors are a little more advanced and who are monitoring the situation especially those who have a connection with you, who are in contact with you. But others don't. The community of electricity producers, how many do we currently have in Croatia? Very little. Why? They haven't been informed. Small and medium-sized enterprises, entrepreneurs take care of their businesses, little water on the other alternative unless they are in big losses, if they are in big trouble then they are looking for some new sources of funding, so they'll probably do something about it. And so please give us information that we can contact the Ministry and we as citizens and we as parliamentary representatives, Commissioners, mayors to make projects and to cooperate on these projects to turn ourselves in and get money for such projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80669	Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80670	Thanks for asking. I've already answered it practically. So, from the entry into force of this law, we're going to need some months but not too big a month to create a manual and contact point is a clear ministry. But there's no point in us being a contact point, if the manual isn't made in detail, announced that a citizen can take it down, look at it, and then call us as a contact point and ask us, be careful this may not be clear to me. You understand? And that's where I agree with you. So there's one place to make a hot spot where it's gonna be, it's gonna be the ministry. The manual will be made and then these as you speak who are not active on the ground will also have an opportunity to see it on the ministry, or on the websites.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80671	Thank you very much. Before we go to the next replica, we have one violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, fellow Pavić. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80672	I'm sorry, I couldn't replicate otherwise, so I have to do this 238. I'm referring to the article, I know it'll be a warning. But just to ask you, I need information on whether a tender will be opened before the handbook is made. That's all I care about.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80673	Comrade Pavić, I recommend you include the next time before raising the tablet autocorrection. Yes, you have a warning, that because you have abused the Rules of Procedure and you have used it as a replica, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Let's move on. Next replica of my colleague Miro Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80674	Thank you, Vice President. I'll continue on the replica of Mr. Pavic. It's true. It is very difficult to inform citizens, but in 2018, three years ago they passed a law in this Assembly on self-supply. I haven't heard from any of the MPs in the opposition that he invited the citizens that we've passed this law, that it goes in favor of them, that they build mini power plants on their roofs and that it allows them with these small mini power plants to practically cover the cost of electricity. How much they produce at a time when there's sun, hand it over to HEP, when there's no sun pulling out of HEP. No one called them. My colleague Pavić is only here for a year, but the law has been in force for three years, and I've mostly listened to the opposite. The opposition MPs mainly criticised the law and the provisions we had.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80675	Thank you. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80676	Yeah, I agree. Here I am, no matter how...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80677	Let's apologize. Just stop, please, Mr. Secretary of State. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Dear colleague called Brumnic. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80678	A colleague injured Article 238, saying that some parliamentary deputies did not say when a few of us were talking about this and the problems that exist in this regard, so if you did not attend the entire debate, you did not hear anything that was said in the debate. To the truth, I have not heard the answer from the secretary on this issue, and that was the question that citizens deliver electricity, but they are paying incentives for electricity that should practically be encouraged from renewable sources which has no logic so that several times it has been mentioned in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80679	Thank you. My colleague, please. Comrade Brumnic, I must give you a two-base warning. The first is that you've exceeded your time, and the second is that we no longer have the correction of the incorrect assumption that this was actually yours. It wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but you were actually correcting the wrong assumption. There's no such thing as a warning. ... No, you consciously said you were using the violation of the Rules of Procedure for the replica of your colleague Brumnic, it is not. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Let's move on. We have another breach of the Rules of Procedure. Comrade Totgergeli, what has the Rules of Procedure been injured in?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80680	Rules of Procedure 238. I have made it clear and loud that no parliamentary representative of the opposition has invited citizens to use the benefits of the law that we have passed since 2018 and are going to install mini solar power plants on their houses, because it is favourable for them. So, on the contrary, we've mostly been getting criticisms at the expense of this law instead of educating citizens from both these benches and telling them it's convenient for you, inform yourself about it, install mini power plants etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80681	Thank you. Time. You too have a warning first because you have exceeded time, the second you have not even called on the article of the Rules of Procedure. ... Good, and if it is, but you've abused the Rules of Procedure. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I recommend that you and your colleague Brumnić, after this at the coffee shop, continue to shake up your arguments. I see you're eager to discuss each other. ... Okay. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You have a warning. We continue with the replicas, i.e. the reply to the replica, the esteemed secretary of state to the replica of my colleague Totgergelia seems to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80682	Yeah, who's gonna remember? I absolutely agree with Mr. Totgergelio's self-supply and production for the very supply has obtained its results and continues to do so today. And now, with the aggregate, it gets an absolute new dimension that's justified here and in this home sought several times, but we didn't have that situation solved. And now that we've solved it, so that part we have, and that means that you have the very supply in your facilities where you don't live, and then later through the aggregates, the suppliers can have a serious financial benefit from that to cut their own account where you can't physically put yourself.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80683	Thank you very much. Next replica of my colleague, Dreven Buddinski, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80684	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I would just like to hope that parliamentarians not only work behind benches, but also have to work in the field and be with their voters because they have been chosen by their locals and citizens and are responsible every four years for all their own same locals again. But now I'd just ask you. You, I'm glad you brought out all those projects and since I'm coming from Varazdin County and you know that the Varazdin County in cooperation with the Mali Bukovec municipality founded... geothermal sources that I think are one of the futures of that. [[You don't understand.]] The ministry recognized it and really supported all of this and I think it's very important and that the Varazdin County will become in the foreseeable future one of the very first efficient energy districts, do you agree?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80685	Thank you, colleague. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80686	It is absolutely agreeable because it is regrettable that Croatia produces 10 or 15% of its total amount of flowers that it spends, and let's say in your area there is quite a tradition of flowering and all, and geothermal energy is there near natural that can be used to warm up plastics. So we absolutely support all the activities in that direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80687	The next replica of my colleague, Dark Taritash, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80688	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honor, Secretary of State, Article 42. The law defines the status of a privileged electricity producer for simple buildings. And here you refer through that provision and you say that simple structures are the ones that are defined in a special regulation. So you decided not to define yourself. Now, I'm afraid, otherwise I'm a supporter of not defining ourselves in different ways, different laws than any resistor to define what it is, then you bond to it. But the rule on simple structures that define what simple structures are, simple structures are temporary and temporary. It's your circus tents, it's your ads, it's your different garden shadows. Now, what I'm reading here as simple buildings would be auxiliary facilities up to 50 square meters, would be roofs, would be garden shadows. I'm afraid all of this other stuff wouldn't go into it, so I'm just wondering if maybe in the future you'd consider defining it by this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80689	Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80690	Thank you. We made this clear only in coordination with the Ministry of Construction, Spatial Planning and State Property who simply suggested it to us. Like you said, we're not jumping out with any new definitions and terms, and they're supposed not to, but they're asking that they put a solar panel on the tent. They're supposed to be looking for something more fixed, so they're going to have to ask the competent office for some kind of paper, so someone's doing a static, not this one, something to prevent or allow. So let's let there be bodies that deal with it. And if we see in practice that some problems will be clear that certain sublegal or late legal acts can also sanction it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80691	Thank you. The next replica of my colleague, Daus, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80692	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I didn't use the final, so I'm gonna use three messages in the replica of the secretary of state. First, do you agree in practice to raise the level of efficiency of HEP in the field? The honor of exceptions, but there are problems, it's too much of a system, they need to understand that they are here in the service of citizens and entrepreneurship and much faster, more operational, especially here I mean connections. In view of the current negative experiences that we have witnessed all in Croatia. In particular, suspicious corruption should be increased to control the process of introducing new alternative sources, not to slow down processes, but to restore citizens' confidence and create preconditions for investment. And thirdly, to end with this in addition to protecting the environment and energy efficiency, energy at the end of electricity independence must be the goal of cheaper electricity, the long-term goal of electricity to our citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80693	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80694	Well, here you are, actually, is more of a finding than a replica. I absolutely agree that, as far as HEP, ODS and HOPS are concerned, we will be maximumly involved in making those in sublegal and any other sense operational for the implementation of these laws that we are currently discussing here and which will be passed. And as for transparency in the adoption of new projects, I don't think it's more transparent than we predicted. So remember the situation when five of them stormed into one location, when double-location permits were done, when energy approvals were gratis, when there were a billion problems, when the HopS was issuing... for an area where there is no spatial plan. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have now systematically introduced order – spatial plan, public tender, EMP, everything that should be. It's our guarantee that it'll be okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80695	Thank you. The next replica of MP Ahmetovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80696	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State. Let's take it in a row. The first wind king returned investment in six, seven years and the incentives took 12 years. That's the illogicality we're warning you about, and you know very well who that wind king is. It has a very good connection with this socially sensitive and hep-oriented. The other one about the tanners. The territory, which is given for these solar plants, is given mainly to foreigners. The Spanish company has taken the sixth football field for 150 megawatts. One greeting for this year, you are calling for the signing of the law in some past governments. The interesting thing is that all governments are fleeting, only you stay in each of them as a very faithful associate, so here I am because I don't have enough replicas to ask you all and answer all the answers I can't wait for next year so we can continue to discuss these topics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80697	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80698	As far as I'm concerned, I guess I'm good at my job, so they appreciate me knowing something. And as for this return, regardless of the gentleman you mentioned figuratively, there were other gentlemen who returned as quickly as possible. Here we are at the same wavelength as the return of those investments in that time they gave, according to those rules that were made. That's what I mentioned about that sour grapes. So our return on investment in the support programme that will come from the EU at a maximum of 6% per year. That's what we were counting on when we calculated that 6% of a year's return on someone's investment was enough, and these were terrible returns, and I couldn't agree more. But that's not what I was involved in. Tomislav Coric certainly did not, Andrej Plenkovic freed God.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80699	Thank you. Next replica of colleague Maria Jelkovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80700	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State by individual opposition representatives today, we have had the opportunity to hear that the law does not go in favour of citizens, but for the benefit of individuals. I don't think we should run away from having strong investors, investors in society. On the contrary, we need to create space for the economy and for such individuals and that they do business, of course, in accordance with all the rules that come out of the law. I also think it is good that this law allows our citizens who want for their own personal needs to do so, means from a renewable energy source to cover as much production as it takes for their personal needs. As regards HEP and price, the price is formed we know how investments, supply costs etc. So are investors private, but also HEP. Surely it is important that most of the projects will still be implemented by HEP and that it is good for us.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80701	Thank you. Please be careful on time, you've exceeded 10 seconds. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80702	As far as this is concerned, it is absolutely true that the investor's title is something defined by law and it will be who it will be, and most importantly physically where the plants are located. All that lies within the borders of the Republic of Croatia is Croatian production, Croatian GDP, Croatian energy security, all that matters to us. And it is clear that it is necessary to strive that if there can be more HEP, if they can be some investors, whether they are Croatian or foreign, which is not problematic in any sense, it is clear that this is much better. And as for the fact that the more HEP projects, the cheaper the power of HEPs that 85% of the household holds, that's clear as day.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80703	Thank you very much. The next replica is a distinguished colleague called Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80704	Dear Secretary, the key problem I will once again repeat this law is the fact that this law takes the risk for us, and the investor is making a profit. I would be very interested in explaining these 6% of yours in accordance with Article 21. You mentioned Article 30, paragraph 2, when we have to, or when we have to say we're going to buy electricity. The question is, if that current is much more expensive than that reference value, whether we buy it or not, or if we let the investor sell it on the market. We only buy when it's below the reference level. So there's so much room for marifetteluk, and we're aware of marifetteluk. Here's your oil price now. Today, yesterday, you took off the price of gasoline, the limit on the price of gasoline. Gas is cheaper today in Slovenia more than 10% cheaper than in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80705	Time. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80706	As far as I'm concerned, I don't know very well. Read the article well. So if CROTE decides to buy electricity exclusively at the reference price, it says well in the law, read well. You may not have read quickly, bought at the reference price, and this one must sell it to him because the competition will be so designed and the support contract that he has to agree to. It's not his goodwill if he's gonna sell HROTE, no, no, he's gonna have to sell it if HROTE decides, because we're giving money... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80707	Please don't have a debate from the bench, just a little while, you took advantage of your time, even a little over it, I think the secretary of state understood your question, so please just don't throw it out of the bench. Please proceed to the Secretary of State if you know where you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80708	So it's about us buying it if it fits, if it doesn't answer. And the fact that you're saying that we only have a risk, and that safety there absolutely disagrees with you, that doesn't hold water at all. So we have precise contractual terms that will be defined by law, rules, public tender, everything will be transparent and we will function accordingly. There's going to be a guarantee, not a guarantee of a bank, but whatever it is, I don't see that risk. What is now the main criticism that these old fiding tariffs that are still going on somewhere are too far-fetched and that's the criticism that we all have absorbed as correct, but in this part of the sign CROTE can say if it fits I'll buy your electricity in the next year at the reference price and so be obliged to have a reference price. If CROTE estimates that price is good for him, why not buy, prodo and earn.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80709	Thank you. Let's move on, next replica, distinguished representative Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80710	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Milatić, one of your claims prompted me on the replica, and this is what I'm going to quote "Only a lunatic would sell HEP" so I don't know if you informed the Prime Minister who has been talking about the sale of HEP in good time and I'm going to quote "The Prime Minister and HDZ President Andrej Plenkovic on Saturday commented on the model of the purchase of MOL's shares of INA, saying that the IPO HEP model for the purchase of INA shares from the strategic partner MOL based on the sale of 25% of HEP shares through the initial public offering is the most effective, fastest, simplest and purest version of the least actors." Did you inform him that only a lunatic would sell HEP? I agree absolutely with you here, since as much memory as I am served by the Prime Minister, it has never clearly denied it, nor given up on the purchase of the INA, nor to give up on the purchase of HEP.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80711	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80712	Now you have denied yourself, so the prime minister did not say that he would sell HEP but would make IPO HEP, the capitalization of HEP. The prime minister never said he would sell HEP, and now you've read it well, the IPO HEP is the capitalization of HEP. means that Croatian citizens invest additional money in HEP to expand HEP's capital and then in that expansion that would be passed by Croatian citizens to 25% with these money was planned then or as the idea of buying INA. So it's never the prime minister that I'm going to sell HEP, but I'm going to strengthen HEP, and I'm going to buy the INA with a strong HEP.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80713	Thank you. And the last replica, the esteemed representative of Shimičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80714	I thank the vice president of HS. Your Honor, Secretary of State. The impression is that we are here in the thick red white world is whether, you are trying to answer people's questions, but you are not really how much I understood anyone or that your answer for them has made a certain shift. Well, I don't think that's for sure good, and we should try to understand this law, especially what other reading is and what you've been trying so hard to make it very clear to us. From what I understand, the goal is greener energy, the cheaper energy. And now you have so many projects and you can't force people to go and invest in it. They have on pages, they can look, they can applicate and they can provide themselves with cheaper energy and be happier with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80715	Thank you. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80716	It's all going to be written in the manual, and now it's all in the law that all these laws need to be read now, and I agree with all of you because that's why we suggested it, so eventually the directive requires that there be a manual, that we put it all in one place, that we've already been through our 15 years of childbirth while we've been learning, while we've been making mistakes. When we're talking about mistakes, then I refer to this that some governments have made mistakes, I haven't done it in the energy section, but I've been in the energy ministry, so I've witnessed some mistakes from some people, but here today we finely agree that it's what we would say about God's command and I'm telling you here that it will be and I'll do everything to make it so that every good-willful and malicious criticism of you will listen and we'll see what we'll do.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-12-07-0.u80717	Here's what we're done for this year you're done with the reviews, we'll probably move on next year. This concludes the debate, and we'll vote when the conditions are met. I'm declaring a recess until 1:00 p.m. when we'll continue the session with statements on behalf of the club. Thank you very much. It's only a matter of time before we get back to
