ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u57710	Dear ladies and gentlemen, good morning, I'm opening the 8th session of HS. I warmly welcome you all. I particularly welcome the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Andrej Plenkovic, vice presidents and other members present and members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This session begins with a regular meeting of HS which, according to the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the Rules of Procedure of the HS, begins on 15 September and ends on 15 December. I invite you to pay tribute at the beginning of the session to the homeland by performing anthem "Beautiful Our Homeland". I invite you now to pay tribute to all those who gave their lives for Croatia, especially Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, all our colleagues and colleagues to the representatives and all those who are responsible for Croatia. - A moment of silence - May their glory be eternal and thank them. Dear counterpart Miletic, on behalf of all MPs and MPs, has sincere condolences for the loss of his wife. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the minutes of the 7th session of HS have been received by electronic means. Any objections to the record? Since there are no objections, I find that we have adopted the minutes of the 7th session of HS in the proposed text. We're moving on to the session's agenda. With the invitation to the session, you also received a draft agenda. The final draft agenda was sent to you by electronic means. In the final draft agenda, I included 8 new points under regular numbers from 19 to 21, then from 25 to 28 and 35. I would like to stress that the new points proposed in the final draft agenda are printed in bolder letters. Those points did not contain the draft agenda that you received with the invitation. Art. 227. The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation The Rules of Procedure will now be decided on the draft laws for which the Proposer proposes the adoption of an emergency procedure. These are points 1 and 2. Final draft agenda. Does any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of these laws? If there are no objections, I shall determine that the proposal for the implementation of the emergency procedure is accepted in accordance with Article. 205. Rules of Procedure. There are no objections to new points submitted in the final draft agenda. The written objection to the agenda I proposed with a call for the session was filed by MP Karolina Vidović Kristo. The complaint concerns the proposal to supplement the agenda at the point of appointment of the Secretary of the HS, which is not currently referred to in the procedure. Since that act is not referred to in the procedure, I must reject the objection. I would also like to report that the item will be referred to the procedure during this session after consulting the parliamentary majority clubs. Here you go, pal Kristo.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u57711	Mr. Jandrokovic, you are the president of the assembly and it is unacceptable that the assembly violates the law. It is intolerable that we, as a council, have the situation that 11 months of the secretary of the assembly is being handled by a person who is not authorized to do so. You were obliged to handle it within the time limit laid down by law. We know that our citizens what ordinary mortals would say when they are late to pay taxes a day or two that sanctions await them, and you tell the Croatian public dead-cold, so it is not a problem that 11 months of the secretary of the Croatian Parliament is actually doing his job as an unauthorized person, in fact there is no. You were obliged, after the public warned you of it and after it came out in public, at least this week immediately, to put a vote on the appointment of a secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u57712	As I said, by respecting your objection, that point will come very quickly to the agenda, after the ruling coalition, or parliamentary majority, has held consultations. Since there are no other objections, in accordance with Article. 225. The Rules of Procedure of the Agenda shall be deemed to be as proposed in the final draft agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, before we begin to ask questions to the government or to an individual member of the government, just a notice. After completing the current morning, and before presenting the position of the Clubs of Representatives, we will discuss and vote on the MIP Report on the suspension of the term of office of Representative Andra Krstulovic Opara so that the MP may take the oath and start acting as representative, so please be present so that we can vote on it. And also, following a discussion of the planned points for today, we would also discuss the MIP report on the setting up of an MP's decision to abolish the immunity of a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u57743	The next club of representatives will be the MOST on behalf of which the respected representative Marin Miletic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u57744	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament Mr. Reiner, respected colleagues and colleagues, Croatian peoples, I would first like to commend the ruling, yes, yes, where I believe it is necessary to do so because they have not succumbed to the pressures of the scarecrows, the scarecrows of the internal groups, which have taken Croatia to a new lockdown. So, praise to the ruling that they have not taken Croatia to some rigorous measures that make no sense. Then commendation to the Croatian people that at the time of the pandemic behaves responsibly and behaves as the citizens should. I'd like to put an emphasis on a few things here, the spreaders of fear and panic, we have a lot of them in our society that we need to raise awareness of anxiety and fear is another comorbidity right after the thickness, and before the diabetes when we talk about covid, fear and panic. And who spreads fear and panic in Croatian society should talk about it publicly. What do these scarecrows advocates of strict measures, advocates of closing the basements in houses, putting the locks on the front door, putting down the blinds? Let's look back at prof. Ioannids of one of the world's greatest scientists, has over 6,000 quotes epidemiologists monthly says this, his team has come up with data, 305 million jobs have been lost for lockdown, 305 million dear fellow MPs and MPs, 500 million people have fallen below poverty levels, 500 million people. Who's going to answer for that? People who suffer the state of hunger, listen, from 135 million to 270 million people who are starving for lockdown, who will answer for it? 24 million students stopped studying. Who's going to answer for that? A huge number of mental illnesses, anxiety, fear, depression, unfortunately suicides, who will answer for it? In one UK, there are more suicides of adolescents and young people than of covid. Who's going to answer for that? That's a legitimate question. Masks, today you've come up with the latest Spanish survey, great research, that they don't make any sense in the education system, and they need to be abolished, today it came out to you. In the end, government advisors are writing publicly on Facebook from Lauce on. The University of Waterloo in Canada says that these masks that we wear from fellow representatives of all surgical masks and cloth masks protect us from covid to 10%, means 90% of us are not protecting us. Up to 10%. So what's this show about the public? So, masks interfere with communication mostly at school, normal teaching, psychophysical development of the child, and they need to be abolished. Let's cut out these masks, not only here in HS, but also in the education system. Kids hang out together, come to class together, eat together, play together, but then if they're in class, then they have to put on masks. Oh, come on. Cut the mask. Covid's passport, so it's clear to all of us, so the vaccinated carry the infection, the truth, to a lesser extent than the unvaccinated but transmitted. So we have Norway where with two vaccines, a huge number of populations have been split. We know that Iceland is over 94%, Israel, we know what's going on, so you have a covid down there growing and booming. Why isn't that what you're talking about? So, the covid passports give false safety to the vaccinated then the vaccinated go to nursing homes, vaccinated go to hospitals where the risk groups are and then spread the virus there. They give false security. Let's get rid of the covid passports, they don't make any sense. And one more thing, so the citizens who decided on their own conscience not to vaccinate, the state did everything they had provided a vaccine for all those who wanted to be vaccinated and that's it. And then it's the right of citizens to think differently and to decide not to vaccinate in their conscience and not to suffer for it, not to be discriminated against, not to be marginalised and not to visit the existence over their heads, not to be blackmailed, said they can't progress unless they're vaccinated and other nonsense. That's not good. Such behaviour only deepens in the Croatian people, and we are too few people to share. Maybe it suits some people. We are too small a people to fight, let us stick together and learn to live with the covid.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u57810	The next one will speak on behalf of Green-Left bloc MP Ivana Kekin. Here you go. ... My colleagues, please, let's calm down so that colleague Kekin can speak normally. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u57811	Thank you. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues. Until yesterday, I was in the hospital of the largest and most equipped, state-of-the-art and most advanced in Croatia to the Clinical Hospital Center Zagreb popularly called Rebro. This hospital is like most others in anticipation of the imminent inflow of patients suffering from severe Covid 19. She's looking for him in a way that she's re-expanded so-called. Covid's department. By establishing the Covid section and any further expansion it has its own price since neither the spatial nor the human capacities of our health system are unlimited. In practice, this means that the spatial capacities of other clinics are shrinking, so it is an example of a psychiatric clinic where I myself worked from 66 to 16 beds. This also means that clinics function with reduced staff, as part of the staff is moved to the Covid department and nurses and technicians, but also doctors and doctors of diverse professions who all enter into the role of the pulmologist interns overnight. The expensive price of setting up and any further expansion of the Covid department at the end of the day that there are no confusions paid precisely by patients who have been difficult to reach for almost 2 years before and before the pandemic hardly available diagnostics, treatments, treatments, doctors or doctors, and regular monitoring, and our numbers are growing again. Last week 70 dead, 30% more infected than a week ago. Today, almost 2,000 people are infected. A significant increase in hospitalisation, a significant increase in the number of patients in intensive care and respirators. The question is, what's the plan? The measures are what the prime minister called "minimum". As in some other fields and in the field of fission, we are again sharing the infamous last places with Bulgaria and Romania. Only 40% of the total population was vaccinated. Despite the harsh reality, however, the Government decides to pretend that we are in the company of Denmark, Portugal, France and Malta that have a split close to or above 80%. It seems that the money in the case of closure and support is no longer available, and as things now stand, there is no political will, knowledge and strategy that would significantly increase population fragmentation, so let's see what the experience of the last 18 months has taught us, who will pay the price of a deadly combination of low fissure and minimally to quote the prime minister of measures. Last fall and winter measures were implemented subject to various interpretations of the current needs of the ruling and led to an extremely high number of patients. It was followed by a high number of complications, hospitalization, overcrowded hospitals, deaths. At the same time, all other diseases were barely or often significantly delayed by other equally necessary health care services. Many who got over Covid developed postcovid interference by creating additional pressure on exhausted capacities. And, of course, many have fully expected to develop significant mental problems. This is, of course, due to life in suspense, fear and endangerment and loss, the loss of nearly 8000 500 people, the loss of more than Croatian military loss throughout the entire duration of the Homeland War, the loss that pushes us to the top of the European Union by the number of deceased per million inhabitants. The number is namely two thousand and 50 dead per million people. Finland, for example, has 180 deaths per million inhabitants. Compare those two numbers two thousand and fifty and 180. So here we are, the new fall is at the door, the numbers are worse than last year at this time, the owls are more contagious, the hospitals are no better capacitated than last year, measures minimal, and the vaccination at the bottom of the European Union. Of course, we can always pretend to be Danish. They'll pay for it by someone else in some crowded departments while they can hardly breathe looking at the scuffanders of wrapped psychiatrists for prescribing pulmonary therapy to them, so we rightly ask ourselves what the plan is. From this angle, it seems the government's plan can come down to a sentence that lives who dies.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u57861	Thank you very much. Before we go any further, I have to apologize, even though he's not here from a colleague of the Pupovac, they've mistakenly put his application for another point of view under this statement, so he hasn't even applied for it. But he applied on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, respected representative Marko Pavić, and he will now speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u57862	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. So today on the day that the President of the European Commission gave a speech on the state of the Union this morning, I want to say something and talk about the value of EU membership. We have seen the last few days that there have been a lot of incorrect information, lies especially about the value of Croatian membership in the EU, about how much we get from EU funds, that it is not so good, that the euro is not what we want. So I want to tell everyone here who spreads lies and lies about it, poisons public space that they won't get away with it, that we won't let them. And I call upon this gentleman who contemplates and referendums on the euro. We know that they are not targeted by the euro, that they aim to get out of the EU, so don't steal the European future for young people, the European future that we can provide for European funds here on the day that the President of the European Commission announces that in 2022 there will be a year of youth. Croatian citizens save in euros. 85% of deposits are in foreign currency, in euro. 61% of citizens support entry into the euro after the July poll this year, and Croatia as well as the other 7 members of the euro area held a referendum on EU accession, where it also took over the euro area. Unlike other countries, and this was pointed out two days ago and Vice-President Valdis Dombrovskis in Zagreb who I had the opportunity to meet with Croatia is also available to the National Resilience Recovery Programme, which is precisely aimed at investment and in achieving a positive business climate. When we look, and yesterday in the media space, I heard a lot of lies about the use of European funds, it is simply not true that we will not, or that we are paying more than we are using. With an 8 month 44 billion kuna, we have more net use of EU funds, so physically paid funds than paid membership fees in Brussels. True, membership fees will grow in the coming years but will grow significantly and multiplely inflows of funds by 2030. We have over 30 billion euros at our disposal. About 4 and a half, 5 billion euros to be paid out of this envelope, 24 and a half billion euros from the future envelope that is divided into the standard budget and the National Recovery and Resistance Programme. A great season that nobody really expected, and under the success of the government and the measures that we have seen that we have stood out in the EU, that we have attracted tourists and with our security. 16.8% increased GDP compared to 2020 when we had a drop of 8% and such high growth, which is estimated only for this year of 7% of GDP, will also define that we will meet the master criteria for the euro and that we will be ready to join the euro area 1.1.2023. All these funds are available to our young people to ensure the future here. We see that the trends of emigration are also falling, that young people remain in Croatia, and I am particularly pleased that this High House, the Croatian Parliament and the few of us who represent this High House in the conference on the future of Europe will be able to discuss the future of the Union, the way we can create them, especially for our young people. As much as the Union is worth, we've seen in this fight with covid. We were alone in the 2008 crisis. Here we are today, reading over 700 million doses of vaccines in the EU is divided. I call once again on all Croatian citizens to be vaccinated. Therefore, the EU's value is absolutely there. Do not tell lies to steal the future of our young, European future that is bright. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u57863	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives will be that of the Homeland Movement, and will be spoken by a respected representative of Ante Prkacin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u57949	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here's what I'm going to use is an opportunity to speak freely of what I'm particularly told for the reasons of our strict Rules of Procedure. I wanted to ask two parliamentary questions today to the two ministers, the finance minister and the minister of administration and the judiciary because of the privileged position of the Serbian Orthodox Church in Croatia despite what they are doing and what they will do tomorrow here if they could. But first, I will take the opportunity to look back at my colleague Miletic. I've expressed my deepest condolences to him, but I'm also taking off his hat. For the last month and a half, he's just brilliant. Whatever he's talking about, whatever he's talking about, that's great, that's brilliant. This is good for me because I have to mention my party, and when I talk about such serious topics as the Serbian Orthodox Church, as their behaviour in Montenegro is, I keep it national, I keep it on the subject of the state, and it is more sacred to mention any party or Homeland movement to which I belong, but at least 50 people from Dubrovnik-Neretva County are calling and asking me to talk about the situation in Montenegro and the Serbian Orthodox Church. So first, thank you to colleagues from the opposition who are not in the Homeland Movement who have touched that topic. Let's meet, let's join not only the Sovereigns, the Homeland Movement, the Bridge and you on the left. There are many among you and Croatian leftists, if God will be more, let's meet. Well, let's meet up with our HDZ colleagues anyway, shall we? Let's once have 10 free speeches about the situation in Montenegro. I'd like to speak 11th. And what I wanted here was two minutes left. So Minister Maric I wanted to ask the following. If he looked at the contract between the Serbian Orthodox Church and the Croatian State in Article 23 states that the Croatian state will pay out the money from the budget to support the clergy of the Serbian Orthodox Church, buildings and everything else at the expense of Episcopal, excuse me, you can see that when I mention that Satanism, at the expense of the Episcopal Council. It's a body that doesn't exist because it's not listed in religious communities. If we can put this Episcopic Council in politics, if we can put it in the judiciary, but we can't put it in finance and economy. I'm interested in what kind of account does the money lie on? And I am even more interested in the following, because you know very well I have mentioned it several times and other colleagues that in the most elite places in the City of Zagreb, Croatia is unwarranted without any justification of any quality of the facilities assigned to the Serbian Orthodox Church. She takes a large rent and is uncontrollably in Serbia and the money from Serbia returns to Croatia first to buy land around Jasenovac so that Jasenovac does not investigate. Secondly, to buy land in eastern Slavonia, these Serbian tycoons do not have money if there is no other kind of money. I simply believe that, excuse me and to buy the media in Croatia. So, therefore, the Serbian state seems to me to be working at this point the way it worked in 1914, no matter what you guys talk about Wolfie. I'm right here under the towel. I think it works in black because in 914, you were not led by Prince Pavle Karadjordjevic, nor by Prime Minister Nikola Pasic, but by Voja Tankosic and Dimitrijevic Apis. They eventually armed the conspirators, they caused World War I. They've made an incredible circus. Furthermore, it is very important to mention at least part of what I wanted to ask the Minister of Administration and Justice. Why is the Serbian Orthodox Church in Croatia so privileged by the census? When I saw the Law on the Census, when I saw the conditions under which it would be done, it was as if Elijah the Garashanin had been resurrected and that he had made these rules of the game. It is a desire and goal for Croatian Orthodoxs to be made for members of the Serbian Orthodox Church and made for Serbs. Until we open a debate on what nationality the first Orthodox people who came to these premises belonged to, we cannot resolve the Serbian or Orthodox issue in Croatia. I give you two, three seconds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58073	The next Club of Representatives will be that of the Centre and the Voice. A respected representative, Dalia Oreskovic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58074	My fellow MPs and MPs, I welcome you at the beginning of the autumn session in the 2nd year of the term of office of this call from which I sincerely expected much more. Much more than all of us and our common results are expected and the citizens who chose us. It is our common obligation that for the remaining 3 years, regardless of the different roles played by MPs and opposition representatives, we find an answer to the main problems and issues that plague our citizens, and it seems to me that we are not even aware of what it really means and what it means. These days, our citizens are responding to statistical questions raised to them in the census process. I'm not going to go into the content of those questions that have at the same time disgusted and entertained the public as questions about the type of plumber and the number of throats of cattle, because I believe the waist had reason to include these questions in the form. I'm not going to enter into any illogical and justifiable criticisms, the lack of thinking about what kind of data we need and what kind of data would be more useful to us. My attention was drawn to the slogan under which the census was conducted "Let's create a picture of Croatia together". If I were just an ordinary citizen whose authority conducts the census under this slogan and under this slogan my reaction would be about like this, creating a picture of Croatia is your job, your obligation, your task and you're doing it badly. Unfortunately, as a parliamentary representative, I have no right to do so, but that is why I have the duty to ask all of you colleagues in the order of the ruling, so on the lines of opposition. Are we politicians ready to act according to the password to create a picture of Croatia together? The concept of creation, and in particular the concept of joint creation, involves cooperation, dialogue, compromise, forward-lookingness, looking for the best ideas, the best solutions and the most capable people who can implement them. And unfortunately, there is no such approach in our political space anywhere, anywhere, in anything, not even in those issues in which any party or world-wide or any other division should dominate, for example, earthquake restoration, defence against the crown of the virus, the fight against corruption, etc. Namely, the picture of Croatia is not only the statistics that are being listed these days. The picture of Croatia is, among other things, a lack of cooperation and mutual control between the various branches of the state government, as we see these days, and an example of the choice of the Supreme Court president. The image of Croatia is the cancellation of knowledge, profession, profession, reputation, these generalizing insults and demeanings imposed by top state officials with their rhetoric. This is why those with the highest competence and quality do not respond to any public competitions and calls. This creates a negative selection, and this negative selection often leads to the stupidest and most corrupt one day will come to all of us. The image of Croatia is party personneling and entanglement in public authorities and the lack of any political and social will to deal with stronger anti-corruption measures once. The picture of Croatia is also groups of support for politicians who have confessed to corruption, I guess because they offer dumping prices, so from the point of view of citizens who have already lost confidence in the system and this dumping price is something they are looking forward to. The picture of Croatia is also a generalizing belief that the rest of us politicians are no better. And so that we could even blame the citizens for having this attitude towards all of us as long as it is in power and also the most popular according to polls, a political party convicted of corruption. So now I'm asking you fellow MPs and MPs. Are we as a legislative authority able to design and create a different better picture of Croatia than the one that will show the population list and the reality that surrounds us? As tensions arise on the one hand because of the incentive of minority members to show their identity in the census, there is little concern that we are all expensive from year to year, with the main reason for the demographic breakdown of social values and the dysfunctional state in which the needs and problems of citizens are in the last place. The results of the census should be used to create necessary reforms, which Croatia simply has to implement, although it is clear that they will not be implemented as long as HDZ is in power. These reforms are a new fairer line of electoral units, a new territorial structure with 5 to 6 regions instead of the current 20 counties, a more rational public administration and the establishment of strong and effective internal control of all public authorities, are fundamental preconditions for development that should be targeted according to the potential of each end. The image of Croatia as it should be is a picture of the new state structure and the new design of all institutions without the corrupt tissue of HDZ. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58137	[[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 14.29 HOURS]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58138	Thank you very much, Your Honor. My colleagues and colleagues, the Croatian public, here is how it has been since the last call, meetings of the assembly so far we Assembly representatives have continued to be active, we have traveled through Croatia, various occasions, officially, definitely visited different places on various occasions, celebrations, sad anniversarys from the Homeland War, the formation of the MUP brigades, etc. And in fact, here I have seen a huge gap which, in fact, is being criticised and the desire to make it right, I have to share with all of you and the Croatian public. Not in the interest of certain personal frustrations, but simply because of the dignity of the Croatian Parliament, because of the dignity of all of us. For example, when we find ourselves somewhere as Croatian, representatives of the Croatian Parliament at some ceremony, I have experienced it at least 5 times in these two months, being an envoy of the government, representative of the assembly, the delegation of the president of the state, etc. And certainly, somewhere along the way, they take the order and the weddings, and then there's the delegation of the assembly, our colleague or colleague from the HDZ being our solemn watch, the army follows him to the monuments, but if there's any parliamentary representatives from the opposition like me or some other SDP, I don't know the MOST, etc., so far, it's not registered that anyone would say gentlemen of Parliament's MPs, so join us together to express this piety to the victim or God forbid that if something is organized by the mayor who's from HDZ it's certain that he's in the audience, he'll welcome you all, but if you're a parliamentary representative or representative won't welcome you. It is now not a personal relationship with the MP, but it is one civilizational level, culture, democracy, one tolerance, so we are folk representatives and as Croatian parliamentarians we appear as a whole. Well it's actually incomprehensible that on occasion some sad anniversarys where people died from all parties from both non-party and different religions, nationalities etc. that only one party only extends the delegation of the assembly. It is unworthy, I have very ugly, I mean incomprehensible impressions by my comrades or friends who say so why do so, how is it possible that you, our warlord and parliamentary representative, or your colleague or colleague, that no one respects you, so how is that, so we see the assembly as the unique body of the Croatian people and everyone. And what's worst is my secretary called on two occasions already is the protocol here, the presidency of our assembly, the President's office, and he said if you have 5-6 days earlier, a person who will be an envoy, an emissary to you and that anniversary. Then mostly the answers and we don't know yet we're in a meeting, we answer nothing and then everything. Now, this is one appeal to change, and that and at the Bureau of Parliament, we must actually regulate the same thing that all representatives of the opposition and the entire assembly have the same right. Let the delegation lead someone whom the president has already appointed, but if he finds himself there by chance or by other MPs and MPs, let them actually join them in the field, not to turn their heads or be afraid. On the other hand, one culture needs to be introduced, so as we go to the memories and markings of the Storm and Flash ceremony, one circulatory e-mail should be sent to everyone, so whoever responds, responds. This is truly inappropriate, incomparable to a democratic state where it extends exclusively, so we don't need to go above the dead, over the monuments to stretch the congregation's majority. So, I appeal to expand your hearts, expand your minds. Be more patient. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58252	Thank you. The next club of MPs will be the national minority, and the respected representative Veljko Kajtazi will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58253	... I must say, for the good of the truth, that once again, political points are being collected through my back, with simple lies and misinformation that lead public and citizens astray. [[Specially enabled.]] He wrote, quoting "This police action in Međimurje could be called Operation Kajtazi" to which he added a smile that hints as corrupt as if he understood everything and is trying to be funny along the way. Well, you're not funny or telling the truth. It all started with an anti-Roma protest, and then with lies that me Međimurci, Hrvatje Matija Posavec I call Ustasha or a black shirt even though people in black T-shirts with the "Safety in Međimurje" banner really appeared on the protest. After last week's arrests on the Internet, disinformation began that I personally ordered the DORH or to God that Andrej Plenkovic, along with the police, was setting up a bribe to Matija Posavac which is also a difficult lie that has no contact with reality. It's no secret that I don't agree with Mattie Posavac's policies, according to the 10% population of his county, but I also don't like what happened. It is again at the expense of 10% of Roma in Međimurje and all Međimurians, some of whom banalise trade in influence and bribery. If they want such a mayor, which can be read from some surveys on the Internet or not, I do not object, but I oppose the absolute lack of good policies for Roma integration, campaigns, criminalising the entire Roma community and finally threatening me that I have started forwarding to the police. My personal opinion is that anyone, given the recognition and resignation that he committed a crime, should not perform a public function. I am sorry that my colleague Grumoja has no sense of what he is doing and how it affects the position of the entire Roma community, and finally my personal security. I regret that all the efforts we make and try systematically to approach the problem of Roma in Croatia, individuals like Grmoja, Posavec and similar mines and destroy for several political points, and as I pointed out earlier, this will not contribute to co-existence, and the real problem will increase. That's why I call on everyone to choose words and that if they don't have solutions and suggestions how we do improve to at least keep quiet. What I won't allow is to blame the Roma community, and I hope that after all, smart people, the quiet majority who keep silent will still recognize that it's not all so black or white. This way I ask that you no longer collect points through my back and the Roma community. If you can help, if you think you can do better, I'm giving you a hand. If you can't do your frustrations because you're in opposition, in custody, under investigation or whatever situation you're in with institutions and in elections. Such behaviour is wrong, dangerous and undemocratic, it leads to an increase in the intolerance and atmosphere of the lynch. It may not seem that way to you, but your statements undermine national intolerance and intolerance. Be responsible for the change, and do not do all the political campaigns in the crowding of people on each other. This isn't your first time. You've also had outbursts against sexual minorities from your colleagues. That's why I ask you one more time, don't say things that you know are false. You're not doing anybody any good. Unfortunately, I am convinced that this appeal of mine will have no effect on you. In your usual manner, you will first say that there is nothing against the Roma, again more or less directly attack me and then attack a group again in the next opportunity if it makes it convenient for you to collect some political points in your campaign against HDZ. I'd like you to talk me out of it and do something different. But I'm afraid that won't be the case. I can only say that I'm glad that you only have real influence on Facebook, and I'm sure that that part of the people who trust you over time will eventually understand what kind of politician you are and what kind of person you are. You don't need it in the future, and you can't even believe it when you're telling the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58254	Thank you. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure raised by a respected representative of the bush. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58255	So the Rules of Procedure got hurt because a colleague named Kajtazi hurt Article 238. He used the break for some personal bargaining with me, therefore, hiding behind the Roma community and accusing me of the situation in Međimurje. I have no reason to collect political points in Međimurje, nor do I run there in the elections. If someone is responsible for the problems of the Roma community for the lack of integration of the Roma community in society, then it is precisely Mr. Kajtazi which is part of the ruling majority [[- Intruder Rainer: Good. Thank you very much.]] Don't hide behind the Roma community. [[Thank you very much.]] It's you. And you are part of the ruling majority. [[Thank you very much. A fellow Thunderbolt enough.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58256	My friend Thunder, you've exceeded a considerable amount of time. Please, let's stick to the line. Now, here's the deal. You know that taking a stand has always been a sort of thing that once existed in London Hyde Park Coner, so you can talk about everything and everything, about topics that are completely different from those discussed in the Assembly. Sometimes inappropriate words were used, but it always came to the souls of those who said so. We've never done anything wrong with the Rules of Procedure, and no one's ever been warned at the time of our stand. I ask you to continue this practice. I have often testified here that truths were spoken and lies were told, that total nonsense was spoken, that I am not going in my court at all. But that's exactly why taking a stand is so that everyone can say about all the topics of anything. I would not like to change that practice with a first, injuries to Rules of Procedure that are not infringements of the Rules of Procedure, and second, by making warnings about it. So it wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. That's why I won't give you a warning anyway. But I pray that these practices that have been established over the years and we hold everyone, I ask you nicely. Comrade Katazi, I ask you to give up your breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58257	I thought about it, but I'm gonna give up for exactly what you said. I'll be the first one who won't pick up for a breach of the Rules of Procedure and I hope my colleagues will do the same in the future as I did. Otherwise, a colleague of the Grmoya what he said was not true, given the Facebook he noted etc. I already said I wasn't going to do any damage to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58258	Okay. Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of the SDSS, and a respected representative, Milorad Pupovac, will speak. I don't see a fellow Pod, so then he loses his right to speak. Then, on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, the respected representative Ivana Posavec Krivec will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58263	Thank you, dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. We often hear that the revitalisation of parts of the Republic of Croatia is one of the most important goals to work on, and you will agree to the construction of a new, upgrade and reconstruction of the existing railway is one of the key preconditions. At the beginning of the school and soon academic year on behalf of the SDP Club, I would like to point out the problem that our young students and students who regularly travel by train from their schools and colleges and not only are they affected, but also a good part of the working-active population who travel to work and work the train working on shifts, and because of the removal of certain trains and timetables there is no alternative and has to move several hours before work to arrive on time. In a developed world, the railroad does not just mean a quality and fast connection for daily migration. It also means better quality of life. In our case it means approaching Zagreb and encouraging young people to stay and start a family, for example Moslavina or Slavonia. Unfortunately, during this and last term of the HDZ government, too few railways have been restored and built that train can transport 140 km and more per hour. The problem of passenger transport HZ is the chronic non-organization of transport. In addition, HH's passenger transport under the exception of the crown crisis removes individual trains from the timetable, and then trains themselves. Zagreb as the capital of the Republic of Croatia and Rijeka as the largest port in the Republic of Croatia are connected only by one direct line in the day. These departures are very badly timed because they do not correspond at all to the numerous student population that migrates between these two cities. For students and young people most of all meant direct trains between Rijeka and Osijek, two university cities. They were then able to traffic without unnecessary and tiring precedents first in Zagreb, and unfortunately for every change in the timetable now and in Ogulin. It is evident that Bjelovarje-Bilogorska and Virovitičko-Podravska County have politically voted for a better status, but there is still no important train on the route Koprivnica – Zagreb that was moving from Koprivnica at 15.30. It was this train that was part of the fast line on the route Osijek – Rijeka. Furthermore, high school students and students of the Križevci and Bjelovar have almost nothing to do with a trip to school or a university. No county should be the county of the second row. All have the right to the proper public transport of their citizens. There is no link between the afternoon student train from Slavonski Brod between Vinkovac and Novska for students whose school ends at 14 hours, and they have to wait almost 2 hours until the next train. In Slavonski Brod, students who go to extracurricular activities for surrounding villages are connected with the railway line in the evening to wait until 23 hours and 15 minutes. They have to wait three hours for the train to leave. Night trains between Split and Zagreb have been lifted. Citizens whether they are students, whether they are going to Zagreb for medical examinations or some other work have been suspended for this more comfortable kind of transport and train coming to Zagreb or Split in the morning. The northwest of beautiful ours also has a similar problem. From Čakovec and Varazdin towards Zagreb via Zaboka train is not competitive at the speed. The full shot was a train so-called train. “Hri Varazdinac” on the route Čakovec – Varazdin – Koprivnica – Zagreb. Although it was filled and it was abolished on that route and is now driving only to Koprivnica. Some time ago, I asked Minister Butkovic about the reconstruction of the railway line Dugo Selo – Novska, which was planned more than 10 years ago, and the citizens who traffic on these lines only get free promises and abolishing existing lines from Vinkovac to Zagreb. For example, from my train station Novoselec, which is only 50 km away from Zagreb, lasts an incredible 75 minutes. That the reason for this is the poor state of rail transport was confirmed by Minister Butkovic himself. In his response to August this year, he told me that on the stock to Popovace there was a reduced speed from 60km to incredible 40km per hour and that such a situation would last until the date of December 31st, 2022. So the trains on that stock are regularly delayed, and our fellow citizens no longer have time to wait. A state-owned company should serve its country's citizens. We believe that Croatian railways should be in the service of citizens and listen to their needs and respond to them by changing the timetable, by introducing suitable new local trains and by ensuring adequate number of places on trains where they can now be crowded due to increased number of passengers. We appeal to this government to do more.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58376	Now we move to the current morning which is held at the beginning of each session before the first item of the agenda. First order of business, here you go, pal Pavlichek.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58377	Dear President of the Parliament, I would ask you today, on behalf of HS, to unanimously condemn the initiative coming from Serbia's Republic of Serbia, which is that today, all members of the Serb community are to say on behalf of the flag of the Serbian tricolour, wherever they live, in the so-called "Serb Community". Free Serbian countries. I don't think it has anything to do with patriotism, it's not any encouragement of its compatriots living in the surrounding countries, it's a kind of, unfortunately, pretentiousness towards neighbouring countries that Serbia is constantly doing. Therefore, I would ask you as the most legislative body in the Republic of Croatia to unanimously condemn these initiatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58378	That was said yesterday, in my opinion, what should have been said, by the ruling majority, so you can speak freely of it during the debate and free speech of the club MPs. We do not have a particular point, and I do not think that this topic deserves a special debate because the initiative itself has been missed and it is clear to all of us and I am glad that the representatives of the national minority, the Serb national minority, have made it clear. So I wouldn't open a special discussion about it. So, the first in line for asking questions is a representative of counterpart Dragana Jeckov, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58379	Thank you, Mr. Secretary Aladrovic. My question concerns potential demographic measures the state plans to take to increase the number of newborns, and consequently the number of enrolled pupils in primary school. According to e-Mennel, we only had an eye last year, on average about 12 students per grade, this year the situation is even worse. With that in mind, my question is, what is your ministry, the Central State Demography Office planning to do? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58380	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58381	The Honorable President of HS, honourable MPs, I thank you for this question. So as far as the demographic picture of Croatia and demographics are concerned, as a challenge facing the whole of the EU and all the Member States, we can say that there are very challenging times ahead, not as Croatian, therefore, but as all Member States that have about the same or similar problems. As for the Government of the Republic of Croatia and our policies as well as you have detected, so also through the Central State Office for Demography and Youth and through the Ministry of Labour and Pension System, Family and Social Policy, as well as a whole series of other ministries, we bring a whole series of horizontal policies to improve the demographic picture. What the Croatian Government will adopt, i.e. what will pass the public consultation process and later be adopted by the end of 4th quarter of 2021, is the Croatia's Demographic Revitalisation Strategy until 2031, which will contain a whole series of policies horizontal through a different series, i.e. a whole series of ministries. What we cannot bring into line with demographic structure is an economic situation, that is, economic policy. I have to single out a whole series of positive economic shifts, from GDP growth, from the average salary growth, the minimum wage growth, so just so far in the term of two governments, Andrej Plenkovic, had a growth of more than 900 kuna net wage, we have a growth of practically 1500 kuna average salary, a 23% pension growth for the lowest and 18% for the average pensions, so we can determine that we have this economic perspective that will certainly be a stock for demographic growth. Of course, a whole series of policies from the domains of the Ministry of Science and Education will also help, therefore, the National Recovery and Resistance Plan which recognises all these needs and I am sure that in the next period we will have much better demographic indicators, and they will of course affect all social security systems in a positive trend. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58382	Here are my colleagues, Jeckov, the obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58383	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Whether I'm satisfied with the answer or not, it's less important. More important is the fact that in as many as 405 district schools we have fewer than 10 students, but next year we can expect them to be closed and I refer to cross-sectoral cooperation that is necessary in view of the data provided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58384	Let's go to another question. Representative Stipe Mlinaric sets it up for Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58385	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Plenkovic, 30 years have passed since the aggressor war on Serbia against the Republic of Serbia, which you have been prime minister for the past five years, if those five years have not been enough for you to understand the historical importance of launching an interstate court dispute to demand war reparations from the aggressor. Do not miss this moment after the UN court's ruling to Serbian intelligence officers Stanisic and Sinatrovic, which states that the Republic of Croatia has the right to compensation. You account for more than 20,000 Croatian defenders and civilians who have passed through Serbian camps, you are accounted for by over half a million former exiles who have lost everything. We know that you appreciate cultural heritage, on your account every broken church, the numerous arts of spiritual and material heritage that should have witnessed Croatian history. You are counted on by robbed natural resources such as the Gjergaj forest, the Jelash forest, oil sites in Djeletovci that have been exploited for six years under the landscape. Goran Popic, Zoran Jankovic, Josip Lordan, here are only three names of people who have passed Serbian camps and bullied to unrecognizableness. I'll get you 19,900 other names if you need them. I believe that these fates are important to you, but prove it to the Croatian people, and send a message to the aggressor that the aggression will still be very late, but he still wants to come to justice. This isn't about money because the victims can't be charged anyway, this is about dignity. These victims, it's about the history of our defense home war. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] When will you press charges against Serbia, question? [[Intruder President: Thank you fellow Mlinaric.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58386	Here's your answer, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58387	Thank you very much, Mr. Mlinarich. As for the UN court's ruling, of course we followed them, that we analyzed them, that we knew about their content, that we welcomed them as you saw when they happened, the government immediately gave its position. As for the topic of war damage and possible lawsuits against Serbia, this is the topic we raised, we raised it at bilateral level, we raised it at meetings held in Zagreb. The Ministry of Justice, the experts involved in this work on the subject, have not been distracted in any way. The dialogue that Vice-President Medved, Minister Malenica, Minister Bozinovic, Minister Banozic, I personally lead with associations of Croatian campers, meetings with them, the support we give them in their demands are both honest and concrete and continuous. You're probably getting to know about it because you know very well all the people that it's about. We will persist in this process, we will strive for the justice that is very important to be realized. What is particularly important is that the truth about the Homeland War in Croatia, but also internationally is not questionable anywhere, is not questionable anywhere. There is no international document that would question anything compared to what we as a Croatian government, the Croatian government, the Croatian people see, watch and know. And we are aware of the suffering of all those who have passed the camps, all those who have been captured, and we personally understand that, we have not forgotten or forgotten our missing. We were in Glina a few days ago, talking to all the organizations of the missing, with children and wives, the mothers of all those who are gone, who gave the most for Croatia. Just as we will insist on finding information credible, relevant, accurate, reliable about their fates, so we will continue to work on this process that you have now mentioned. It is not simple at all, it is not easy at all, it is not fast, and it is not by chance that this topic has remained here all these years as a responsibility for all of us to continue for more than 25 years after the operation of Flash and Storm and the release of all Croatian territories. But the government is committed and the minister of justice and the minister of foreign-European affairs are working intensively on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58388	Here's a statement from my colleague, Mlinaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58389	Thank you very much, Mr. Plenkovic. I see you've been informed and I'm very pleased. I don't have anything personal against you, I don't have anything personal against defense groups and campers and missing persons, but this is too serious a question to let you associations lead. Here, the state must stand with a legal team that will lead the dispute against the Republic of Serbia before international courts, rather than leave it to the organizations they give, you give money to associations to sue the Republic of Serbia. I now tell you in front of the entire public, individuals lose those charges, lose lawsuits in front of Serbian courts and get that they have to pay the costs. It's unserious for a country. These people did not fight for themselves, for their street, for their house, they fought for the state, and then it would be expected for the state to stand behind these people with a lawyer team that you as a government form and charge war compensation that the Republic of Serbia should pay for as a government has no cost at all. You well know European history, international history, you know about Germany how old it is after II. World War II paid war damages. That's the only way we can mature a Serbian society to see that they've been guilty of war since '91-'95. in the entire area of the former Yugoslavia and to know that they too mature through the damages. It's not about money. I give up my money from the camp, I don't need money, I'll give it up for humanitarian purposes because I bloodied it to spend it, but to stay for history written that future generations have no problem with it. Thank you very much, and I hope you'll do something about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58390	3rd question, MP Nikola Mazar asks the Minister of Regional Development and EU funds Natashi Tramišak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58391	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable President of the Croatian Government, esteemed ministers and ministers, distinguished colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives, I would like to point out my question to the Minister of Regional Development and EU Funds on the announcement of the change of NUTS 2 region, which will take place on January 1, 2022, can you tell us what concrete benefits will come from the same for Slavonian and all other entrepreneurs. We can also notice these days decisions on co-financing of European projects that you have assigned to the counties and municipalities and cities. How much will the units of the local self-government of Vukovar-Srijem County achieve and what effect all these contracts will have on further implementation of projects throughout the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58392	Here's the minister's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58393	Dear Parliamentarian, I thank you for asking. So when we talk about the NUTS 2 map and the statistical division of the Republic of Croatia into the new 4 NUTS 2 regions, we know that it entered into force on 1 January 2021, and a new map of regional support for entrepreneurs was also notified. In particular, what it will mean for Pannonian Croatia, the Pannonian Croatian region, which now belongs to 5 Slavonian counties along with 3 additional counties of Bjelovar-Belogorski, Karlovac and Sisak-Moslavina County, is that the rate of grants for entrepreneurs has increased from 25 to 50% starting with large entrepreneurs, by mid-60% and by a small 70%. However, following this new fairer division into 4 NUTS 2 regions, the support map also increased for all entrepreneurs in the Republic of Croatia. So for the Adriatic Croatia we start with 40% support, for large entrepreneurs 50 and 60% further by categorization, for northern Croatia from 50% 60 and 70% but also for the City of Zagreb from 25% to 35%. Therefore, by decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia as of June this year, support for all entrepreneurs will be significantly greater than in the previous period. When you asked me about the amount from the Fund for Co-financing of European projects, so the aim and main purpose of this fund is actually to help local and regional self-government, their companies, communal societies in facilitating absorption and implementation of European projects. The government's decision proposed that the budget be rebalanced also in June this year to increase the amount to 450 million kuna in 2021, and in the coming years we will reach a total of billions and 100 million kuna of support. We started handing out contracts, about 650 applications were made on this call, 640 applications meet all the terms of the call so that all the contracts would be shared. I believe that this way will actually help local and regional self-government to speed up the absorption of European funds and make maximum use of the 2014-2020 period. In total, we are talking about 20 billion kuna investments that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will support in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58394	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58395	Thank you very much, President. I'm pleased with the minister's answer. All of us who come from these areas, assisted areas or former areas of special state concern and the war of the affected areas are aware that assistance is primarily necessary not only for staying but for returning and settling these parts. It is the entrepreneurs who are the engine of development, it is the small and medium entrepreneurs who create on the micro-level preconditions and employment, but also the remainder. I would therefore first of all like to thank you and as a resolute ministry, but also the Government of the Republic of Croatia and primarily the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia who gave a positive assessment of the co-financing contracts of European projects and certainly that with the project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem with the City of Vukovar's Reconstruction and Development Fund, along with the fiscal decentralisation made by Minister Maric and this will therefore continue to be an even development of the Republic of Croatia, and I believe that this is in our interest here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58396	The fourth issue, MP Zvonimir Troscott, will be asked by Minister of Economy and Sustainable Development Tomislav Ćoric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58397	Dear Mr. Coric, a few years ago, Hydrocentralised Lesce released a water wave that extinguished the life of a young 17-year-old dream. Life went out of one destructive wave. A month and a half ago, the same fate was almost welcomed by Mrs. Mirela Jakush Frebe, who bathed in the States where the devastating wave arrived within a few minutes unannounced when people were bathing and we almost put that body in a coffin and searched for it at Sisko. As far as the economic energy efficiency of this hydropower plant is concerned, we are talking about production that contributes to the electronic Croatian system less than 1%, and as far as production capacities are concerned, the only potential for justifying this hydrocentrale was once in 11 years. What if we split up by 11 we get 9%, at 9% of the efficiency is spent EUR 100 million. So what we're talking about is huge losses, dramatic losses of electricity, where it's 7.64% for 2020. One Slovenia records losses of 4.18%, so if we were to go to the Slovenian level, we could automatically shut down 3.5 Hydro-Hydro-Hydro-Hydro-Hydro-Hydro-Hydro-Hydro-Hydro-Hysce. Not only that, but also the biggest interruptions in the carlovac power plant where supply, supply news distribution networks say that in each, all 4 quarters of the year, electricity is being lost in the carlovakia county. My question is this, what do you think you do about the hydrothermia that sends our youth into crates, what do you think you do about hydrothermics that are financially, energy and environmentally inefficient, and what do you think you do about hydrothermics that produce 1% of the electricity that is lost by the long lines of the carlovia County? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58398	Minister, here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58399	Dear Representative Troscott, I thank you for your question. So Lesce Hydropower Plant has been operational since 2010. and in this context, as a top power plant, performs its function as well as all other power plants in the Republic of Croatia's electricity system. Connecting her work to the losses created in the electricity system is really pointless because you know that these losses rest on the fact that the network in the Republic of Croatia was built ten years ago. As a rule, and that is why we continuously insist through Croatia's electricity industry or through the CAPS on the replacement or reconstruction of that network. At the end of the NPOO, billions of kunas will be allocated just so that the Croatian electricity system will be renovated and can resist the challenges of increasing production from renewable energy sources. So that's about the observation on the subject. As regards the hydropower plant itself or its working regime, the meetings that followed this unsatisfactory event have also reached the conclusion and clear direction of HEP and Croatian waters and all stakeholders in the area that in coordination with the Karlovak County the system primarily informs all residents downstream of the Lesca Hydropower Plant for those situations in which the water is released. As regards the future or the medium and long-term future, because this solution cannot be made in a month or several months, an idea solution has been developed or an idea solution has been accessed that should point to an optimal solution downstream of the Lesca Hydropower Plant. The findings of this solution are already known at the level of the expert group consisting of representatives of Croatian Waters, HEP and Karlovac County. We expect that, in the next period, we will approach the finalisation of the idea solution or make a feasibility study and ultimately solve this problem permanently. This requires, above all, the patience of our citizens and citizens who have their facilities downriver from the Lesca Hydropower Plant. Of course the demands and attention in the context of her regime of work that we have insisted on and we will insist on in the future. As for the funds spent on this facility and you mentioned it at one point, it wasn't small. The hydropower plant is because of what I said to be high-functioning, and in this context, I believe that in the future, and until we create a final solution, we will avoid any unpleasant events. It would certainly contribute to their avoidance and calming tensions on your part, but I'm sure we won't be able to count on it in the coming period, given the fact that you use each situation primarily for pure pulsism and the tricks you use. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58400	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58401	Dear Mr. Coric, regarding power savings on power lines, it was a constructive proposal where you can save 3.5% of the electricity from savings, which means 3 and a half of Lesce Hydropower Plants. As far as the high level Hydrohazard Lesje itself is concerned, only a fool can build a peak power plant of such capacity on a hilly river such as the River Dobra. What is the sad fact, Mr. Coric, is that you are 2018. at a government meeting where Mr. Plenkovic was also in Karlovac, using the same words to help the people of Karlovac County and to solve the problem, you did not move an inch away. You two specifically flew in a helicopter over the Good River watching the blue area and perhaps sending selfies to your family, but on the other hand, people there are dying. And if it's not enough for you to know that we've already stored it in a box so Sanju and that it almost killed Mirel, the normal state would only stop that hydrocentral one percent of the current, one amper of the current is not worth the lives of our people. What did Mr. Bear for defending Croatia, that the Croat was killed by a Croat? That's a fact. So each, every normal state would stop such a hydrocentrale if such an affair didn't happen. So it's already piling up the black chronicle at that hydrocenter. The other thing is, you mentioned studies. Studies there promised to improve people's lives. Studies therefore talked about increasing electricity and studies talked about the tourist potential of the Karlovac County. You know what the fact is? The fact is that people are suffering, the fact is that there's a loss of electricity and the fact is that from the tourism potentials you promised through the studies people are moving out and that every tidal cold wave so it carries 3 to 4 cubic meters of the country. Now multiply that by 11. So you'll see how much soil erosion is and how much the nature and eco system of the carlovac County has been destroyed. Thank you very much. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58402	Let's go to Question 5, dear colleague Jankovics will be asked by Foreign and European Minister Gordan Grlic Radman, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58403	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister, it is clear to all of us, especially in the east, that the most unresolved issue we have with the Republic of Serbia is the question of the missing. However, I would like to warn today of another one of us especially in Baranja, a very important issue that has not been resolved with the Republic of Serbia, it is a matter of demarcation in the Danube. I'm asking that first because when we talk about a part that isn't solved in the Danube demarcation, many think first of the Charengrad Ada, the Vukovar Ada. In Baranja, however, the most important issue is the unresolved border issue, and one of the most valuable outstanding issues that we have at all is the issue of Kenya, or the issue of arable agricultural areas on the left bank of the Danube, exactly opposite of Baranja. In addition to the obvious and unequivocal economic value of the region that catastrally belongs to the municipality of Draž, it is unequivocally ours as well as Badinter's commission has identified an additional problem which is a catalyst. Why do I ask this question here and for the second time here in HS is the fact that in this area called Kenjia, so from the left bank of the Danube across the way from Baranja live our citizens, on the salashs, on the most fertile country that Croatia has, and I know that in 2018 or, as far as I know, the last time was the Committee for Borders that is responsible for agreeing with Serbia that we will actually, join, hopefully, our territory, I know that, if I am not mistaken, another meeting of the expert working group, however, when I visit these people, we realize how difficult and hopeless their lives are. My question is to you, Minister, how are we on this?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58404	Minister, here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58405	Thank you very much, Mr. Jankovics. Thank you, in fact, for pointing out again this question that we have been following from the very beginning, the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, whose resolution is actually in the interests of the entire country. I'd like to shed some light on the historical political genealogy, actually solving the final determination of the border line. Negotiations opening up meant to establish a border line between Croatia and Serbia through an interstate commission, a diplomatic committee to identify and identify and negotiate a state border contract, we had somewhere in June 2019 the last, I think not the final, 11th session in Belgrade, a bilateral issue, and then there was indeed a good, good finding that, in fact, certain catastrian deviations, that we could really agree with resolving the border issue. But the border is about 326 kilometers away, and you really said about this one village, but there's really more, I know that part, it's about 115 square kilometers, it's not just Kenji, there's Karapanjee, Vukovar and Charengrad Ada, and then of course the pandemic that actually prevented further communication, it was actually the only one, it seems to me, the reason, and we're trying, here now again, to open the actual question. If, of course, the issue could not be resolved, of course, by bilateral means, there are still international courts, meaning the International Court of Justice. Namely, the Croatian position is, from international law, from the established fact so-called "Arbitral commissions for the former Yugoslavia", i.e. Badinter's commission, means that they are, in that part, cadastral particles belonging to and belonging to the Republic of Croatia and where Croatia has jurisdiction, both civil, judicial, administrative and police jurisdiction in that part. Of course we were also, in parallel, trying, until it was determined, we were trying economically-monetary and.../incomprehensible/... however we include these, these parts actually in the RH system, but of course, until this border issue is resolved, the problem remains. Of course, this problem does not leave us indifferent, we will of course, within all these open issues that Croatia has with Serbia, you mentioned missing persons, we are very sensitive to this, it is a painful fact, emotionally strong and of course, burdens us, and even as a state, we have to give answers to the families of the missing, 1858 is missing persons. We have made it clear to Serbia that negotiations and a continuation of relations are just conditioned by resolving these issues, compensation of campers and all other issues, but here, as regards this one of yours, therefore, the left bank of the Danube, I am there optimistic and I will gladly, here and visit even those parts, to encourage ours, as you said, living people, the inhabitants of that part, which, of course, belongs certainly to the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58406	Comrade Jankovics, here's your sign.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58407	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Of course I'm happy with what you said. I know a good part of it, but I think it's good for the Croatian public to hear what you've said. Of course, I know most of these people personally because I've been there several times and I've been there, trying to encourage them to register everything they do, to endure, to say, they have registered OPGs at our White Manastir Advisory Service, when they buy or sell land, to register in the White monastery, when the savage destroys the crop, then the Serbian police refuse to act, rather than send us to the PP of the White Manastir, so we have unequivocally good evidence for there, if there is an arbitration to determine that it is still ours, but I think it's a good picture, especially of us who are from that Shore, and all of Croatia's policies, that here, that this problem, I say, in addition to the unequivocal biggest problem, the issues of the missing and the issue of demarcation with Serbia, in particular, here, I am, the localitarian of Baranja, and we keep it warmly speaking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58408	The sixth question. Pedja Grbin's representative sets up Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58409	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Plenkovic. A year ago, HS passed the Renovation Act, which first applied to Zagreb and the surrounding area, and after that, I must say, unfortunately, and I believe that we will all agree on that, unfortunately we had to pass it on to the area of Banija because Croatia hit another earthquake. One year since the law was passed, what citizens and citizens of Croatia usually hear are excuses. An excuse that makes the law inapplicable in practice, an excuse that makes it impossible for us to start with a real renewal and an excuse to rebuild something, and in fact, it's only about chimneys that have been removed and built a new one in their place. A real renovation, a real renovation, in both Zagreb and the Bania area has not yet begun. That's why my question to you, when are we going to stop making excuses and when are we going to start with a real renovation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58410	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58411	Thank you very much, Mr. coat of arms. As for the renewal, precisely at its first session last year, HS adopted the Law on Reconstruction, adopted it by consensus, adopted it on the basis of the infrastructure of the profession, work, builders, architects, lawyers, conservatives of all possible people who should have been involved and who contributed to this law and the SDP voted in favour of the law. And the government is then I remember very well, we will respect the amendments to the maximum possible extent possible to reach a consensus on the topic that has hit us because of the natural disaster and the topic that we have to show solidarity to those who are damaged in this process, and these are many. Croatia is the only country in the EU that, apart from the damage caused by covids, and we know that they have cost about 36 billion kuna to date, experienced two devastating earthquakes, estimated damages are covid times four, and this says the list of earthquake damages in Zagreb, according to the damage assessment in Banovina and other counties. This fact from the very beginning has been clear to both you and us and everyone who has been dealing with it, meaning that the restoration will be a subject we will be dealing with for years as it has been since the great earthquake to this day from the experiences we have, and we have it here and in the neighborhood. What was an idea with this law is to be comprehensive and to meet two fundamental principles. The first is security, so the concept of construction-organized reconstruction was created as the state's view that we want buildings that weren't counter-shocked earlier to get their new construction reconstruction and that in case God doesn't give any new earthquakes to withstand the earthquake and the strength, that's the first. Secondly, given the enormous costs incurred by the construction reconstruction, we give our fellow citizens the opportunity for the state and units of local self-government to stand behind them in the process. The second aspect that was important was the aspect of legal certainty, this aspect is extremely important and what happened is not that there are any excuses, nor am I personally satisfied with the dynamics of the renovation, especially because we have provided the European Solidarity Fund and the World Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the European Investment Bank, the Council of Europe Development Bank, the state budget so we have enough resources to engage them for everything that can be done faster. It has been shown that we have a problem with property relations, especially in the City of Zagreb, that we have irregularities in the public procurement process, we have shown that we have the need to build replacement housing and more residential buildings in the area of disaster which, when it comes to multiple housing buildings, the law has not been foreseen, it is shown that we will probably have to change the issue of the legality of buildings, it shows that we will have to make everything more pro-pulsive about the removal of the building and the jurisdiction of the State Inspectorate, that we will have to give more money to people to pre-finance this whole process and make quality financial and technical control. It is a package of amendments to the laws which the Government will propose and which I believe will have support and which only has a task to make the process of rebuilding more pro-pulsive, faster and more efficient.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58412	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58413	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58414	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58415	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Plenkovic. What we will surely agree on is that it was a natural disaster that we couldn't influence and we would all be happy if it hadn't happened, but what we can influence as a society as a state is how we're going to solve its consequences. Well, I'm not satisfied here, not just me, but more importantly, those who are directly affected by the earthquake whose houses are destroyed, who live in a container. I asked you a clear question, when can we expect the actual restoration to begin? You didn't answer that question. After one of Mr. Vanjelic's latest advances, only about 2% of the applications submitted have been processed to date, each 50th request has been processed. Well, Mr. Plenkovic isn't that there's a problem with property relations on absolutely every building, is there? I'm sure that's not the case. This law doesn't work either where property relations are unsolved, but... or where they're solved. This law doesn't work either where people have restored their own building, and today they're asking to be helped and their funds refunded, this law doesn't work even where local self-government has everything ready to start building buildings, and the state is holding it back. Dear Mr. Plenkovic, it is easy to continue the reconstruction this way will be one of the biggest fiascos the Republic of Croatia has ever experienced. Propose a good law, I'm sure we'll all adopt it by consensus together, but do it as soon as possible. For a year we lost, don't lose that much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58416	The 7th question will be asked by representative Sanja Radolovic and that of EU Regional Development Minister Natashi Tramišak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58417	I thank the president of HS. Your Honors Minister. Despite the fact that we have already stepped into the new financial perspective of 2021-2027 where 24 billion euros will be available to Croatia, 3.6 billion euros from the National Resistance and Recovery Plan, we still don't know how the competitions will be conducted, in which way, the competitions will be financed. And I'll remind you that just as the Prime Minister himself announced that the payment of an advance from the National Resistance and Recovery Plan of 800m euros will be at the end of the summer or in the autumn of 2021. Here's the summer is at a break from the contest, let alone the payment of funds neither trace nor voice. Do you think it's a little bit unserious towards the private sector and entrepreneurs who are deeply affected by the coronary crisis and who are looking forward to the call for tenders?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58418	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58419	Dear Parliamentarians, here I thank you for this very important and important question. So, as you mentioned, a new programming period in 2021 to 2027 should begin soon. EUR 13.7 billion has been secured for the Republic of Croatia from this seven-year regular financial period. An additional €6.3 billion from the National Recovery and Resistance Plan. This is exactly how the Deputy Prime Minister Maric reminded me that an 818-million-euro advance will be sitting next week. It is precisely these funds that will be intended for the first projects to be implemented from the National Recovery and Resistance Plan. While we are waiting for the European Commission and their comments and consensus on the new operational programmes for 2021-2027 and these EUR 13.7 billion, we are already the first funds available in the Republic of Croatia under the REACH EU mechanism to be used specifically for entrepreneurs. With rapid intervention and lightning, they programmed the period 2014-2020 billion and 140 million kunas of funds intended for the green and digital transition of the economy specifically those involved in production in all production activities. In the event that ended in late May of this year, more than 842 requests arrived, but about 300 applications were processed until the beginning of August. The decisions are in the issue and we can say that 300 entrepreneurs working in production in the Republic of Croatia will soon receive a billion and 140 million kuna. So these are the first emergency interventions scheduled already this year for the period until 2023. Of course, we also expect decisions from the European Commission, the signing of a partnership agreement between the Prime Minister and the President of the European Commission, after which we will begin to call for the first calls for a period of 2021. – 2027, and just the first calls to be called from this new programming period will go to the economy and entrepreneurs specifically for the green and digital transition of the Croatian economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58420	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58421	I'd like to thank the Honorable Minister. I will just remind you that from the very Croatian Employers' Association they have received only 20 minutes of meetings in the government when creating a draft National Resistance and Recovery Plan, that it has been put to go to the economy 54% of the funds, but you also know that, under that concept, the economy has actually put in place major projects from the public sector which unfortunately do not mean much to entrepreneurs and the private sector. I will also remind you that when entrepreneurs prepare tenders it would be correct at least to know in which direction they are going with these competitions and projects, otherwise their projects will remain at the bottom of the drawer. And I'm glad you mentioned programming since we're already at a loss in 2021, we know how long the financial perspective lasts, the competitions will certainly be out of the new financial perspective by the middle or by the end of next year, which we've already lost 2 years in withdrawing funds from the EU funds. And I also have to say that every opportunity to invest in the public sector at the expense of the private sector actually means either firing workers or removing jobs or not actually creating additional values. We ourselves must set priorities for whether we need to have a sewer or create new jobs under these conditions of the coronary crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58422	Question number 8, Croatian Health Minister William Beros. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58423	Thank you very much, Mr. President-in-Office. The Honorable President of the Croatian Government, respected ministers and ministers, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, here is my question for the Minister of Health, Mr. William Beros, is based on the current fact, which is the fact that the number of Covid sufferers is growing daily, that we monitor daily information about hospitalized in our hospital departments. Behind us are three waves of pandemic, behind us is a great and invaluable experience of all of us who work in the health system. There are times behind us where we've been equipped with all the things we needed. Hospitals are equipped thanks to the Ministry of Health, the headquarters of the Republic of Croatia, units of local self-government and many donors with what we lacked and these are respirators, non-invasive respirators, Hi-flow osignators, protective equipment, disinfectants and everything else we needed. My question to the minister is whether given these increases in numbers, are we as a hospital system ready for 4 waves of pandemic if it develops, if it comes to it. First of all, I mean the bed capacity, the equipment, and what's necessary for human potential. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58424	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58425	... Thank you for this important question and that you were right when you said the numbers were growing. [[Specially enabled.]] We're at the beginning of the 4 waves, we don't know how long and how long he's going to go, but today, 1835 of the newly infected are really a warning. We have seven deceased citizens among them, one of whom was only vaccinated, so 6 were unvaccinated. The health system will be ready, but the question is how much we as a society, as a nation, are ready for it. We're not completely. Today 52.26% vaccinated from an adult population of at least 1 dose is not enough for them to enter peacefully in the fall. Absolutely not enough and that's what needs to be stressed. However, the health system, based on its reflections on the experience of earlier waves, will be ready. You yourself are testifying that a crisis headquarters expert group has also met recently at the Ministry of Health, which has modified the plan for the Zagreb region. You yourself know especially at times when this virus was only coming when there were many, many more unknowns that we founded our defense, reorganized the health system and adequately responded to that threat when it came to beds, respirators too. Although the burden of the health system was extreme, people gave their maximum and what was very important, in a way, suffered and remained health care. It is from this aspect that we have established and slightly changed the 4th wave strategy to ensure that as long as possible we do not suffer other healthcare without adequately directing ourselves towards Covid-19 positive patients. You yourself know that so far in this wave, the Adriatic part of Croatia has been more burdened and therefore thanks to all the employees and management of KBC Split and all other hospitals, which they have responded in an adequate manner. As autumn arrives, as last year, this burden is moving to the continent and we will slowly begin to get bigger numbers on the continent. However, they are generally growing, so we need to be prepared and it is certain that, based on previous experiences and current reflections and redefinitions of certain topics, because, as I said, from day to day we learn more about this disease, we are changing some paradigms, so we can and we are better organized in the situation, but we should also mention this burden of healthcare professionals. At this point, you know yourself, until we communicate, we have over 200 infectologists, it wasn't possible in this year, a year and a half to increase their number significantly. But we also have over 880 anesthesiologists, we have over 200 pulmologists, these people will give their pain again, but as a nation, we must be aware that we can prevent their extra burden. Vaccination is the best way to fight this epidemic. Vaccination is also the best way to prevent the burden of the health system. So let's do it. And as I said the other day, you don't have to trust the government, me and the ruling, the Staff, anyone, believe the math. All over the world, it is evident that among the newly infected, newly-hospitalized, and also unfortunately dead, they dominate, unvaccinated citizens. Let's make this right, we can simply, and the health system and all its employees will be ready. You know that in the meantime we have conducted certain European-level educations and trained additional staff who have not been directly or educationally directed towards the treatment of these patients, so that they can help, if necessary, but it is up to all of us to make sure that there is no such need. Here he is, in short, so much, Mr. Parliamentarian.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58426	There you go, the obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58427	... Your answer. [[Specially enabled.]] I'm happy with your answer, but I'm going to touch a few of the facts you mentioned, which is this regional approach. I believe that the decision that you have made together with your team in regional approach and regional coordinators, has made it very easy for all of us who run the hospitals, and I believe that in this 4th wave with this experience, we will have, I say, an extremely positive experience in the eastern part of Croatia, and I believe that this example, this example, that other regions have followed. Also, I support your decision regarding the outcome of Covid certificate for healthcare staff. I support it because I believe that it is we who work with patients that we must ensure the safety of all users of our services, but also, as you said, to be a positive example to all those who suspect that vaccination is the solution. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58428	The ninth question, MP Andreja Maric again asks Health Minister William Beros. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58429	Thank you very much, dear President-in-Office of the Parliament, dear Minister Beros. Health situation, you're aware, is unsustainable. Patients are unhappy with the growing waiting lists, all citizens are unhappy because they do not have equal health care available in all parts of Croatia. Health care professionals are dissatisfied with working conditions, treatment, relationship with them. The situation in hospitals is not financially sustainable and the question is how long will the system be able to take care of all patients. Health debts are being accumulated from month to month, and the question is, when will the delivery of medicines to hospitals be stopped again? We are witnessing the new 4th wave of the pandemic, you yourself said that this would be an additional burden for the health system, we are not clearly prepared, neither as a nation, you know how we are split, all that I have stated, requires urgent and concrete measures. Why didn't you take them as well as you should, when you start carrying out the necessary reforms in health care, in order, what will you do first, and what legal changes do we expect? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58430	Here you go, Minister, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58431	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, ma'am. Parliamentary MPs, your question is more than well-founded, however, would require a much longer and more extensive deployment than these four minutes. What I can tell you is that this government is aware of the situation in health and is determined to take reform steps that are necessary to stabilise the health system. You're absolutely right, that's what we want to do and we want to do it. However, when it comes to the burden that comes with the Covid crisis, no one could count on it. As we have responded financially and organisationally to these earlier 3 waves, so we will respond to this 4th wave. I fully agree with you that the financial situation in the health system is unsustainable, however, we must also consider these 3.5 billion kuna direct costs related to the Covid crisis and also mention that this government has found ways and opportunities in the 3rd month. Last year, I would like to thank Minister Maric and, of course, the President, how to respond to the search for wholesale drugs. That's how we'll do it in the future. But you're absolutely right, there are some reform steps under way that are divided into three stages, the first is '21-'22, the second phase of '23-'26. and the third phase of '26-'30, 2030, relating to the entire health system. I cannot tell you too much about the details because it is not right to go out before this reform proposal is fully agreed. I can only tell you that working groups have already been established to amend the Health Protection Act and the Mandatory Health Insurance Act, which are working on the necessary changes which are the basis of this reform. In principle I can tell you that three, in a way, objectives of reform, and this is certainly insurance available, as you said yourself, because sometimes accessibility is not equal to all, and quality health care, then optimal use of limited resources in health, and also, stabilisation of the health system in the organisational but also financial plan. There are three reform areas, financial, organisational and human potential, and now, if you want, I can tell you in principle about the details, let's say the financial menu of the most interesting and powerful problem. So we have several objectives when it comes to this issue, which is, in any case, setting up adequate financial frameworks and ensuring sufficient sources of funding. We have in this area 17 specific measures relating to different aspects that include rationalising of course costs, as I have already told you optimization with limited resources, but also ensuring stable and clear sources of funding. So we have to respond very clearly to all these challenges. When it comes to organisational structure, we want to work on a better, more efficient and more flexible which has been particularly demonstrated in the context of this crisis of organisational structure. There are several directions of movement, we have 10 specific measures, so we are talking about geographical distribution of certain activities and their grouping, and then also about opening of centres of excellence, and then hospital functional integration and vertical organization, connecting the SCZZ with secondary primary health care into one whole framework, so there is a series of elements. When it comes to the area of human resources, we have 7 specific measures to address, among other things, the definition of the relationship of public health system work and the private health system, the remuneration of employees, quality control of their work, the potential of excellence and what is important at this point, especially when it comes to primary health care for the constant source of these specialists because for decades, not for years, this system has been negligible in Croatia. So there's a lot of work ahead of us, but it's quite certain that this government and I as resolute minister are determined to implement these reforms.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58432	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58433	Thank you very much for your answer. Since you yourself said that it is difficult to go into some detail in four minutes, so I ask you to give me very detailed details of what you have elaborated in this short time to give me a very detailed answer in writing. I'd like to remind you that three months ago, we had a meeting of the Health Committee where both we from the opposition and colleagues from the health system shot you with a very extensive material with a number of quality suggestions to improve the health situation, you said then that certain drafts and suggestions, today I listened to that video, on the table of the prime minister. Does that mean you finally got the green light? The local elections have passed, I guess you don't have any more brakes from the prime minister now, so I hope then very soon at the Health Committee session we'll hear very, very concrete measures and moves you'll be planning to make because we're waiting for these results and certain reforms for the last five years. You haven't done anything yet, the pandemic is now what we've had for the last year and a half, but we've been waiting for years. We're waiting for you to move. It's time for you to do something. Everything you've tried to do and I'm going to remind you of the health care intern's problem, it's all going too slowly. So we expect you as an administration, as a ministry and as a government to move a little bit more. Obviously, you will have to put a little bit more emphasis on how to resolve waiting lists, how to boost the availability of healthcare, how to resolve the issue of leaving our healthcare professionals from Croatia, so here I expect you to be on the move. And once again, I request the next session of the Health Committee and a very detailed written response. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58434	The 10th question, MP Marin Miletic will refer to Culture and Media Minister Nina Obulen Koržinek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58435	Thank you very much, President. It's still Chicken's last name, I haven't changed. Dear Prime Minister, all members of the Croatian Parliament. I'm asking the Minister of Culture a question. Minister, the pandemic of covids has been here for the second year in a row, a number of anti- epidemic measures as well as new normal have been particularly reflected in the offer and demand in the cultural and creative sector. There are, of course, positive examples in times like this, especially when we talk about the creative industry like the gamma, where in the good part this industry has not been damaged in the pandemic, in fact, the number of companies, jobs, as well as income growth. However, these circumstances did not suit all sectors of the cultural and creative industries, especially those who did not get used to or could not adapt to online and stream platforms. I want to know how the Ministry of Culture and Media and you personally and the whole government think in a certain way about restoring the balance in this segment to this sector of cultural and creative industries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58436	Thank you, colleague Chicken. I think I said chicken, but I'm not 100% sure, if you're wrong, maybe you're right. Here's a reply from Minister Obuljen Koržinek.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58437	Thank you, Mr. Agent Chicken. No wonder you ask that given the really successful projects of development of the gaming industry in Novska and the truth is that both gaming and general streaming services are that area of cultural and creative industries where in this crown crisis there has just been a work for streaming somewhere around 30% of the growth, and for gaming we do not have yet precise data, however it is true that new companies have also opened up. However, the majority cultural and creative industries in general are one of the most affected, the first to experience closures, and since in one part where performing art depends on gathering a large number of people, it will come out of this crisis at the latest. I will remind myself that we initially intervened with a series of measures, so that's about 400 million when all the ad hoc measures were put together last year that went towards all and towards independent artists and entrepreneurs and for digital adaptation both for journalists and for the media and for filmmaking and the program because it must be played, so we went towards all parts of the industry with targeted measures, but Croatia was the only European state that was throughout the pandemic, with great understanding of colleagues from the government and from the headquarters of the cultural institution kept open. This was not cost-effective, however, it required very often even additional investment. However, it has already proved to be a good choice because other countries have problems relaunching the sector and a major problem with the audience. In 2021. At the beginning of the year, we again intervened with ad hoc measures because in that third wave, at the peak of the third wave, most institutions had to stop working. However, then we quickly restarted the measures to launch, so with the priority vaccination, I would certainly mention the realisation of loans with the guarantee of the state, then entrepreneurship in cultural and creative industries, digital adaptation, support of small value for the sector of event organisers, support for bat tests. However, here we are at the beginning of another season, as Minister Beros said at the beginning of the 4th wave and we maintain constant communication with the sector, which we do now in the fall and winter when we re-enter closed spaces. For culture and performing arts it is clear that the only time we can start doing this work again is the way we knew before the crisis that it was vaccination. This is recognized by artists and employees in the sector, but the majority and audience expect that the increasing number of events will take place along with the covid certificates, and in addition to what we expect by implementing the NPOO, in which we have provided 250 million kuna for the cultural and creative sector, another stopper will be restarted, so that I hope with all the losses and financial and human and the issue of habits, this loss of habit is something that will follow us for a long time, I think that we have managed to help our cultural and creative sector survive, and of course depending on the dynamics of vaccination will again depend on the organisation of events with a large number of audiences.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58438	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58439	Thank you very much. This amount is very positive information that will be welcomed by everyone in both the cultural and creative sectors. And yet, I want to take advantage of the opportunity and visit that just the development of the creative industry in Sisak-Moslavina County is one of the key elements of the development of this county. In light of both earthquakes and disasters and reconstructions, we have an industry that attracts young people from all over Croatia to Sisak-Moslavina County either through a high school programme, whether through a requalification programme in collaboration with the HZZ and the Ministry of Labour, whether it is therefore an entrepreneurial incubator letter and certainly these funds that you have provided through the NPOO will contribute to this industry providing a chance for the economy and industry of this type in Sisak-Moslavina County to be a bright example of life, industry, youth and energy, as well as creativity in Sisak-Moslavina County.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58440	The 11th question, MP Boris Lalovac asks Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Zdravko Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58441	Thank you very much. Dear Deputy Prime Minister Maric, the covid pandemic has actually divided society, divided society into those who are being vaccinated and those who do not want to be vaccinated. Unfortunately, this covid pandemic has also divided the personal finances of all citizens, to one part of the citizens who have saved considerable money, in a year the savings of one part of the citizens have increased 12 billion kuna according to CNB data, while the other part of the citizens has led them to use these subtle minuses, right, so I believe you didn't know that this information is in the pure intelligence of the CNB, but since you requested data, so I ask you a few answers to the question. First of all, how much is the real debt to silent minuses is there a variety of information that it's 6 billion, that it's 7, and even some that it's just a billion if it's not so much? Secondly, how many of these citizens who are in the quiet minuses, how long is it now under the roof or blockade that they can't even return those fresh minuses, do we know that there are about 200,000 citizens who are still doing it? And what really interests Croatian citizens the most, will you ban sales in legal changes, the reselling of these debt-market minuses to agencies in various ways, since these are debts, small amounts of debt for citizens, and on the other hand, here are as much under the authority of the state as they do if they go to the market of debt to various agencies that are not under the authority of both the CNB and the HANFA and then can only be a problem for the government again? Here's an answer, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58442	Here's the minister's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58443	Thank you, well-respected President HS, Your Honor, thank you very much for asking. This first part I agree with you, I do not have much to comment on and on vaccination, but mainly on these invoices and the facts that you have said regarding the movement of data on total savings. I will focus on the part relating to excesses, on the overall problem, since it is a good part of our citizens and citizens who are also interested in the days that follow certainly await both certain solutions and concrete moves on this issue. I still have plenty of time to do a gene review. You've done a good job of apostrophe. Here everything I will say to answer your question and possibly any next question during the debate or current hour, so I am not in office of any lawyer, nor of the banks that are under the authority, supervision and supervisor of the CNB, but neither of the CNBs that corresponds to HS, nor of the government as such. So the data and facts that we have at our disposal are the ones that we have received from our request to the CNB, until that request we have only made available from public means of communication, so from the media. What I'm going to say is also one part of our additional knowledge, let's say certain assumptions in 2010. is introduced into the Croatian legal system, among other things, by the Institute of permitted and tacit overruns through the Consumer Credit Act. He experienced some of his novels as he changed something and in the Law on Mandatory Relations, you know it very well. Among other things, these two institutes were defined in a way that allowed overrun I would say maybe not even entering the legal financial part. His own name speaks of the fact that it should be a dominant form of excess for citizens, which is regulated, which has the provisions and characteristics of credit work, which has certain restrictions in Croatia though one of the few countries say only, I will refrain from having full data, but I will say one of the few countries that has a limit to an effective interest rate, so what includes benefits, etc., means with all these novels from 2010 to around 2018 allowed overruns were predominant factor, factor, factor or product. The decision of the CNB of 2017, which is in the HNB's control, thus the CNB Act, which was voted by the Croatian Parliament, gives them that permission to interpret it from the CNB in accordance with European law on current account management fees, is included in the calculation of the effective interest rate. Whether self-initiatively in agreement with the regulator, I do not have that data, the banks have since gone and directed their consumers, so our fellow citizens, our banks' clients towards the Institute of Quiet Excession, which I will repeat once again in the law itself is recognised, but not so transparently, clearly regulated as the permitted overrun is. The data say that currently 839,920 so almost 840,000 citizens are in the regime to call so quiet overruns with an average excess of 8.821 kuna, it is easy to multiply and reach the total amount while it is allowed to exceed all of them in relation to this large number of 31.704 with an average excess of 12.295. Interest rates are also different. At the permitted overrun, on average at 7.60 and on the overrun, almost 11%. The last observation of whatever I do first and foremost I appeal, of course I don't appeal, but I think it's also in the part circle of the CNB, and it's necessary if there is and in law we won't allow these things, which is that the minuses or overruns are being abolished and even less what you are right now. Said someone was trading with them tomorrow. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58444	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58445	Thank you very much. I am pleased with the minister's reply, especially in this section where the minister announced that the section would still regulate and keep these minuses under control. That's very important, it's very important because it's 840,000 citizens. What can happen here, and this is an open problem that we are publicly negotiating, if the government moves towards banks to reduce the interest rate to limit it as it has done for the allowed, what banks will do, it is no longer a cost-effective product, and they will put it into the debt market, according to their profitability business. That's what's dangerous. They'll just sell it. You know why? Because 840,000 citizens who manage small amounts, you said up to 8,000 kuna, so it's a huge administration for banks, a huge administration for banks, and they can't realize what they said to cover that administration and they'll push it towards the market. This is not a regulated market, and that's why it's very important because here, we haven't even opened the question of citizens about non-intentional loans and the question of what their default is, so it's another bomb that might be waiting in bank balances. You know that over $56 billion of non-intentional loans are granted in bank balances. It's very close to the amount of housing loans. So if we add up these minuses, if we add up non-purpose loans, that's what I'm saying isn't the government's responsibility, it's not the government's fault, but it's going to transfer all that to you, it's going to transfer the CNB to you and transfer the banks to you, and then you're going to have to bother with how to solve that problem. And that's why we're appealing right now, so don't let the CNB and the banks transfer that to you, and then they'll fight you to solve it. You didn't create it, you didn't do it, you didn't do it, but it's all going to be the opposite for you to handle it. And that's why we're appealing right now. to protect yourself there. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58446	Let's go to the 12th question, representative Ivana Kekin asks him by Health Minister William Beros. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58447	Dear Ministers in Croatia die of heart and strokes annually, some 300 people lose in car accidents and about 2,700 die badly. At the same time, scientific evidence has been made that if a person gets badly injured within 60 minutes, we will bring him to an institution where he will be taken care of that we are severely reducing the chance of a death or severe disability. For this reason, due to the medical golden hour, many countries, a series of countries introduced an emergency helicopter medical service but unfortunately not Croatia among them. Although in 2015, a pilot project was carried out that showed how vital a helicopter medical care is and how much life would be saved. A series of ministers with you last promised the establishment of an emergency helicopter medical service but unfortunately here is the last tragic case of Mr. Edi Avdić whose family I hereby extend my condolences to who died while being transported from Losinj to Rijeka just because there were no helicopters to transport him to us telling us that this promise remained unfulfilled. I am therefore interested in the fact that, at the end of last year, a tender has been put in public consultation, so an emergency helicopter competition has been promised when an international tender will be opened. The deadline was 1.3.2021, so it's not there yet, and when will emergency helicopter medical services start flying in Croatia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58448	Here's the minister's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58449	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Madam Parliamentarians, you have asked an extremely important question. As you know from the first day of my term of office and I have started my public address with, as an islander with an emphasis on the need to establish HEMS, I will also tell you that it is in the Government of the Republic of Croatia's programme for the next term of office of establishment of HEMS. Now I'm going to tell you where we are right now, there's really been an international statement of interest with business entities to help us with all those elements with their previous experience to establish this one international tender, a tender for the establishment and implementation of HEMS in the Republic of Croatia. We have some experience from an earlier pilot project that has been interrupted for certain reasons, not because it was inadequately designed, but because significant dysfunctionalities have been shown. Based on these experiences and experience of providers throughout Europe providing the same services, we want to establish an adequate international public tender for the implementation of the emergency helicopter medical service needed by the Republic of Croatia. I am not familiar with that deadline that you have set and we do not know the genealogy of the same, but I want to testify that there is an effort to express within the Ministry of Health that this international tender is being opened in the way that the Republic of Croatia is best suited. That's one direction of movement. What is imperative in future time that is measured, I won't say for tens of years, but I'm sure five years and more is the establishment of a genoina emergency helicopter service for the Republic of Croatia, so you need to have your own helicopters and your own flight frames, and you know we're the situation with flight personnel at this point in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the idea was in some way to arrange for providers of such services and bridge that one period of 5.6.7 years until we established Genoa's emergency helicopter service. What needs to be learned from the past to define all that is needed for Croatia at this time, so that there are no night flights again, or that there are certain restrictions in kilograms for patients, so to base this international tender in an adequate way. But, of course, since nothing is good and what is needed is not free, our eyes will be directed at that moment and towards the Ministry of Finance to provide us with a self-port for such a single competition that will provide what Croatia needs, and that is the Emergency helicopter medical service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58450	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58451	Thank you for your response and, of course, I'm also pleased that we share the opinion that it is necessary for you to understand it in such a way that the emergency helicopter medical service is necessary. But you will allow me a certain skepticism since, as you yourself have said, you have been speaking literally since the first day of your term as minister, so I would appreciate it if you could, in writing, deliver an action plan with deadlines when an international tender is expected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58452	Now let's go to Question 13, Agent Ivan Kirin is asking him to the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Zdrav Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58453	President-in-Office of the Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister with the ministers. My question is to the Minister of Finance, Mr. Maric. According to the IRS, the total amount of fiscalised accounts in August of this year was 11% higher than in August of a record 2019. But this year it was 25.6 billion kuna, 3 billion kuna more than 19. The question is to what extent will the growth of fiscalised accounts contribute to the overall growth of GDP? For experts, the dilemma is how much of this strong growth in fiscalised accounts can be attributed to inflation, that is, the purchase, or the rise in prices? The end of August is 14% better than the same week in 2019, but with a reduction in the number of accounts by 5%. A higher amount, a smaller number of accounts implies an inflationary trend. Is it possible to witness an inflation of inflational trend that will only later reflect on DZS price growth data? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58454	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58455	Thank you very much. Your Honor. Well, here's your data, I'll just fill them in a little bit with yesterday at the end of yesterday, since there's not much fiscalization this morning, and the vast majority of citizens are watching the current clock so they don't spend much, but mostly with the end of last day, so 3% is the value of fiscalized accounts higher than in the same period from the beginning of the year to 13 September 2019. Of course, in the analysis of fiscalised accounts or fiscal accounts in cash, we place particular emphasis on two segments, one is trade, and the other is tourism and all that is related to tourism including hospitality because they are in some way predominant in cash transport. Otherwise, citizens know well that these data have existed since the outbreak of the covid pandemic, they have always been, but especially since the outbreak of the pandemic, because they give us the opportunity to follow on a daily basis certain trends and consumer behaviour, and accordingly, we assume that the movement and economic activity on some micro, but even more at a macro level. Otherwise, as far as these fiscalized accounts are concerned, I'm going to mention a few more data, and then I'm going to refer to this link of yours with the rise in prices that I think is absolutely important and relevant, and that's the fact that we've had a comparison at the store again in 2019 since the beginning of the year between 6 and 8% of the values of the fiscalized accounts. Tourism is about 12% lower than 2019, but I will mention in July only 5% more than in July 2019 and August 21% more in tourism. September is not yet finished, but even more than 20% over that 21% more compared to 2019. When we look at, on the other hand, the number of accounts issued either in comparison with tourism, whether compared to trade, all these indices are below the table, which means that the account number is smaller than 2019 but the value of the fiscalised accounts is higher. So one of the reasons for this is also in price growth, so this part that you have referred to, one part stands for better mechanisms and controls and supervision that tax authorities have done on the ground, so the higher level of application, or lower level of gray economy, but also the very habits of consumers. We heard a few years ago and the macro data related to certain parts of our society, but at the macro-level savings as such increased, and looking at the data at the State Statistics Office reportedly one part of it went into consumption because consumption remains predominant on the other side of GDP. Otherwise, in the first six months inflation is at 1.5, but it's getting faster and it's something we're paying attention to. The CNB, which is a fundamental objective of price stability, but also of government within its mechanisms, will look for ways to contribute to the restraint of this inflation that is not in Croatia's specifics. The largest part that affects inflation is actually imported, most of it has increased energy prices, mostly oil, it has the oil effect itself, but also the base effect, and Croatia does not bounce anywhere compared to other EU member states. So our average inflation in 7 months according to that harmonised index that is comparable for EU member states is 1.7% and the EU average is 1.9. However, in almost all countries with which I have data 7 and in particular 8 months, inflation rates above this average are recorded. Thank you very much. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58456	Please show off, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58457	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I'm happy with the answer. Most of the time, thank you for the clarification, which points to us and Croatian citizens that global events were in the economy, the financial sector, and also in health care, in the covid pandemic cannot be completely bypassed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58458	Thank you. Now it is MP Mirela Ahmetovic who will ask the question of Minister of Economy and Sustainable Development Tomislav Ćoric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58459	Thank you very much, esteemed President HS, Honored Minister Djoric. Back a few days, and today, from Minister Aladrović, we heard the praise of the average net salary of HRK 7,175. It's about 2% compared to June if we're talking about the month of July because that's when you presented that information. You also boast about the growth of pensions and this is repeated here by Mr. Aladrović, for most pensioners with an average pension of 63 kuna. I congratulate you on behalf of 900,000 citizens who can only dream of average wages. I congratulate you on behalf of 130,000 citizens who receive a minimum wage out of these 900,000. I also congratulate you on behalf of the million and 200,000 pensioners. Food prices are flying into the sky, flying into the sky and the price of energy. And here I have now heard here and Minister Maric says that the amount of fiscal, fiscalisation or fiscalised accounts is largely due to price increases. And that's fair, but it would be fairer to say what that part is in the growth of the amount of fiscal accounts. I wish it was the amount of fiscalized bills for the reason our citizens have to pay that price hike, but it's not. To get back to energy, your secretary of state and you can't agree whether the price of gas and electricity will collect or not. I'm not surprised, but I know they're fucking in Hungary. I ask you a question, what will the Ministry of Economy do about the enormous gatherings that follow us, especially the prices of food and energy, for which the majority of Croatian citizens will be hit the most in the last few years? Thank you very much. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58460	Here's the minister's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58461	Dear MP Ahmetovic, first of all I am glad that we have continued this series of your questions referred to me, you are really giving me a chance to elaborate. Thank you for your congratulations, it's nice that the SDP, or that you recognize all the positive trends you've pointed out, and it really is. We are pleased to see that in the SDP you become, on the one hand, aware, on the other hand, I hope that you will be promoted to the first violin of the SDP economic team that you deserve in view of the information you have provided here. So, as for information presented by Minister Aladrovic, that is, there has been a rise and salary, there has been a rise and pension and there has been a rise in living standards. It has been growing continuously in the Republic of Croatia for years and we are proud of it. Could it be more? That it can, and we are convinced that exactly the economic policy that we are leading will make in 2021 and 2022 with projections of the growth that I believe will be exceeded both this and next year make it a strong convergence towards EU level, in the EU's December and thus show our citizens that the policies we are leading are real and good. As regards the increase in prices which is very often a topic in the media in the past month and two days, I will refer to the official data on the basket of products entering the consumer price index in the Republic of Croatia because this is the only measure of price increases. So, the general price level as you know this year in the Republic, at least according to the latest data we have is 2.8% higher than last year. This inflation rate is higher than in recent years because the Republic of Croatia, such as some EU and CNB countries, has led a low inflation policy in this context and has succeeded. This year inflation is conditioned by an exogenous shock, primarily by breaking the supply chains at the world level and by the fact that certain raw materials have become inaccessible and the Republic of Croatia as well as all other countries has not only felt the EU itself. As far as energy prices are concerned, a similar thing where we have a moment of speculation that is inevitable on global markets, I would not further elaborate because we are entering the sphere, in the sphere of theory. What I'm going to say here is that by the end of the year, our citizens and our citizens don't have to worry about either the price of electricity or the price of gas. As far as entrepreneurship and electricity prices have been referred to in the last few weeks, we are talking about a situation where certain entrepreneurs in their business have not referred or agreed on longer-term electricity prices which have the potential and now in the bargaining for the next medium or short term are faced with higher prices resulting from market developments. So this is no one's invention with this faced and entrepreneurs in other EU-level countries ultimately it is. How do you get to that? To jump in such a way that electricity prices or supplies of electricity with suppliers are negotiated over a long period of time. Many will not feel this price rise even though it has occurred. And as for our direct impact on the prices of any product in the market economy, that is unfortunately not possible. We will influence this by continuing to work on the growth of our citizens' standards, I believe that you, as the bearer of the SDP economic team and political You agree with the secretary. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58462	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58463	Thank you very much. Ministers, first of all, I'd like to refer to your exposure to the rise in living standards. It is true that my standard and your standard of living have increased because you have allowed yourself and everyone here in the assembly to pay or settle this price rise. When it comes to inflation, you as an economist should know that inflation is more than 2% undesirable. When we talk about citizens not having to worry about the price of gas, Ministers do not deceive the public the price of gas increased by 1.4.2021 by 80% of households, so agree your secretary and you yourself do not deceive people at least not this directly. As for the increase in pensions for 63 kuna to the average pensioner, it is enough to amortise the possible accumulation of oil, milk, maybe buy and bread enough for a month, and where there is more electricity, transport, fruit, medicines, meat, so that pensioners do not eat meat you have the right. As for Croatian workers where most of them do not receive an average pension but receive a median salary of 6.043 kuna, they are now short 1,500 kuna to settle that basic union basket without their own car. You don't feel that because you're not one of them, neither am I, and there's no one in this room. As far as trends are concerned, in just a month, bread has been collected by 1%, in a year you haven't said anything about the trend or how you're going to stop that trend. You're talking about how it's all the same in European countries. So you yourself recommend that our energy market depends on the Hungarian market and the Hungarian energy prices fall. Ministers may not be up for throw, but you're not even in charge of this ministry, the citizens don't deserve yours. Indifference. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58464	Let's move on, 15th question representative Pero Ćosic will again refer to Minister of Economy and Sustainable Development Tomislav Ćoric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58465	Thank you, well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honored Prime Minister of Croatia, the Honored Minister and Minister, today I refer my question to Minister Ćorić, so here is my question from the domain of the economy, but it also affects other investment-related resolutions. It is namely an enormous increase in the prices of total construction material of a minimum of 40 and more than 100%. This collection of materials significantly endangers the realisation of contracted projects and especially those whose implementation deadline is several years. Although it is a global problem in the construction sector, contractors are unfortunately the only ones that have covered this price difference so far. We know that public procurement is carried out in the public sector in the Republic of Croatia through the Public Procurement Act where the selected contractor is contracted on the non-variity of unit prices throughout the duration of the contract. We also know that the deadline from the offer to the very completion of the work is quite long and perhaps 4, and sometimes several years depends on the complexity of the project. In the new circumstances it is not possible to maintain price volatility, aid from investors in this case the state is needed and it is hasty because without this help jobs will not be able to be realised to the greatest extent, and construction is threatened by a breakdown. So in order for this to happen, guidelines and a legislative framework should not be given to investors in a sequence which, during the course of these extraordinary circumstances, would have the opportunity to change the price in purchase via a sliding scale or another instrument. So I'm interested in what your ministry or government is doing about this problem in order to avoid the adverse consequences of construction anyway, especially throughout the economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58466	The reply of the respected Minister Coric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58467	Thank you, well-respected representative Cosic, that this problem is addressed to the Ministry of Economy and by the Croatian Association of Employers, their professional associations. The fact that, in the past months or so, since the 10th of 2020, the growth of most construction materials has started, especially those requiring the supply of remote destinations to Europe is something that has also been felt to function in the construction sector. Our construction sector has been in full swing since 2017, especially in the water sector, but also in other segments of the construction of roads in both Banovina and the City of Zagreb, and in this context, the period to be followed will be a challenge if this challenge or the problem of rising the price of construction material is not reached. As we have imagined in this conversation with employers' representatives, we are going to make the most of all the legal opportunities in this matter, and above all I am thinking about the Law on Mandatory Relations, or the Law on Public Procurement, whose articles allow price analysis if there are unexpected circumstances, or more force, and in this context and changes to these prices, i.e. the annexation of the contract. It is with this idea that we will also go towards colleagues in the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the coming days in order to give guidance to public contracting authorities that we can influence, together with contractors, to analyse price developments over the past ten months and on the basis of which to access if necessary and contract annexes. Of course, the risk of price increases, which is so legal and foreseen in the majority of terms by performers, as you know up to 10% points, but these circumstances that you yourself have stated, which is the fact that the prices of some materials have gone 30.30% over the past less than a year call for intervention and we will do so. We believe that the construction sector, given its activity over the past years and the contribution of GDP growth and the growth of living standards spoken of and respected representative Ahmetovic, must remain one of the drivers of our development, and this is exactly how we are going to give this type of intervention, or instructions to public contracting authorities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58468	Dear Representative Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58469	Dear Minister, thank you for your response. Here is the fact that the Government, or the Ministry of Economy, has launched and reacted without delay, launched talks with all stakeholders regarding this problem about a drastic and sudden rise in prices in construction, and all to mitigate the negative effects both for performers and investors who would have to cover it. We expect, of course, a rapid reaction and an expert public, both construction and economic and legal, to solve this problem as soon as possible. So here's an example of probably revitalizing the sliding scale that I think it best eliminates these negative effects of rising prices. I note that this is an unusual increase in prices as you said, it is a one-off increase in prices rather than a higher force in contractual relations because if this problem is not resolved soon, many projects will come to a problem, many performers in blockades, and those who survive here will wait for a legal solution thus reducing construction activity and overall economic activity, which will ultimately reduce the positive effects of the largest investment period in the new Croatian state. I'm glad you've done everything you can to keep it from happening.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58470	The next question will be asked by respected representative Ljubica Lukacic to the minister of labour, pension system, family and social policy Josip Aladrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58471	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. Here you have been a little over a year carrying another system and I'd say you're dealing well with it, and that's the social policy system. We know that in these five years, the Government has already intervened in this system on several occasions by increasing fees, amending the legislative framework, and thus has improved the quality of life of users in the social care system by one level. However, system users have their suggestions for improvement and you have held meetings with all of them and listened well to their suggestions. Do you think there's a chance to improve the system, to improve the legislative framework, if that's what you're planning, and if it is what happens to fees? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58472	Dear Minister Aladrovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58473	Dear MPs, I thank you for asking. Dear Vice President of HS, ladies and gentlemen. When we talk about the social policy system, so we have already in the past period exposed what we are planning to do about certain segments of social policies. At this point, I can announce that we will be going to amend seven legislative proposals, so the Social Care Act as a key legislative proposal that defines in fact how the system looks and how the system will look in the future through the legal proposal itself. Here we plan from a systematic context to centralize certain processes, separate social care centres from family centres, establish a social care system academy, so a whole series of works that will make the system a system much more efficient. In parallel with this, and within the same law, we will define different equivalent scales relating to the compensation system, and then we will increase the system or increase social care benefits. We worked together at the end of the HDZ programme, and later on, the government programme, and you know that we have committed ourselves to increasing the guaranteed minimum fee from 800 to 1,500 kuna in the mandate, now since 1.1.2021 we will make the first part of that promise through the increase of the guaranteed minimum fee itself. In addition, the Household Act and the five chamber laws defining certain professions from the social care system will also be something that we will change by the end of the year because we believe that the system needs a strong self-port for the political parties themselves, so political transport, but on the other hand, some changes are needed in order, above all, for the users of this system to be satisfied. I must point out that, at present, both by the end of the month and in public consultation and three national plans relating to persons with disabilities or the equalisation of the opportunities of persons with disabilities, then to the National Plan for the Development of Social Services and the National Plan for Combating Poverty, along with its associated action plans, and in the meantime, we have established a Council for the Development of Social Policy, which included absolutely all actors involved in this topic from the academic community, chamber representatives, representatives of associations, defenders, representatives of the entire social care system, which is regulated as a chamber system. So a very broad body, however, was discussing the creation of social policy at the level of the month. I'm sure that's the way we're going to get a much better system in the middle and second term. The next week, of course, we have a re-session and I say all the topics that are related to the social policy system, we communicate with professional people, the profession brings its proposals, and ultimately it is one way towards a better quality system and all these seven laws, 3 national plans, 3 action plans and an Action Plan to improve the social care system will come into effect by the end of this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58474	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58475	I thank Mr. Minister for such a detailed and exhaustive answer. I have nothing else to say but please continue your partnership with all users in the social care system. Since this government is here, I won't say it first, but one of the governments that is really good at this system and we're starting to improve, so please continue to do so because here are the users in the social care system many think that no one is dealing with them, and here I thank you for doing this, I dare say big steps because this is a system that has been kind of long, long neglected and once again thank you for doing so much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58476	Thank you. Now the 17th question, Representative Milanovic litre asks Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58477	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister, a public debate has been under way for several weeks now through the media on the need to hold a referendum on the introduction of the euro as an official currency in the Republic of Croatia. The growing interest in this topic has also been created among citizens, as we see by the number of volunteers applying to our initiative daily. For this reason, today, on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns Club, I have sent a request to all representatives' clubs including all MPs personally to support whether they are holding a referendum regardless of the political views on the introduction of a new currency. State referendum in '91. is one of the foundations of our country which has shown the wish of the Croatian people to create a sovereign, free and still democratic Republic. Given the hard-earned sovereignty elected in the 1990s, we believe that Croatian citizens should be asked their opinion on the calling of a referendum and the deadline for giving up the monetary sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia. In the past few weeks, and before, we could hear you and your co-workers unequivocally reject any idea of calling a referendum on this key political and economic issue. My question to you, do you think that Croatian citizens of the Republic of Croatia should be asked about this, but also about other topics that are crucial to the future of our country?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58478	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58479	Thank you, dear representative Milanović litre. We follow what you do and what you say. You are the new representative in HS, for the first time you are here, this assembly existed before you, there were people in the 7th meeting who were not only invited by our citizens at that time, the Croatian people to appear at the referendum on our membership in the EU, but also your predecessors a few times ago, here in this same assembly with 150 votes to confirm the Treaty of Accession. I don't know why you're laughing, it's facts. Your colleague thanks to you sitting here because Ruža Tomasic went into political retirement, you received 19 votes since 2013 in the European Parliament. Your colleague Ilicic has come to the European Parliament. The entire philosophy of their cooperation with us in that first term was to be found on the European Parliament list and there are Euros, euro are, he receives salaries in euro. They're facts, and you should know that, too. But let's let it go on the sidelines, let everyone make a living in the right way. Unlike you newly-roasted sovereigns, we in HDZ, which have contributed most as a party to Croatian sovereignty and independence, see this process strategically, we see it in the long term. Chapter 17 of the accession negotiations spoke about the economic and monetary union. It was more than clear that we would enter the euro. We are, in fact, formally in art. 5. We have taken the obligation to introduce the euro, we have received a derogation until we meet the requirements. Our government has a strategic goal of introducing Croatia into two deeper integrations, one Schengen space to ensure both internal stability and external borders, the second is the euro. And that's close, that's there, that's tomorrow, that's January 1, 2023. Ensure that the conditions are met, the Maastricht criteria in these circumstances of the pandemic, the earthquake, the crisis that we have received, retain the investment credit rating to retain the reputation we have with our partners, the European Central Bank, the Euro Group, the Commission, the Member States, credit rating agencies and be in a position before the introduction of the euro after the implementation of our five-year strategy now listen to your initiative. I don't know if we've all slept through this whole period? How long are we gonna wait? It seems reasonable to me that if someone enters the Union on 1 July 2013 to, say, adopt the euro on 1 January 2023, it is 9.5 years in 9.5 years we know where we are, we know where we are going, we know what the benefits of membership are. I don't know if there's any more of your supporters that maybe they think that we're sick of EU membership, that 44 billion of us are extra than we are paid, and maybe some damage has been withdrawn, that the Peljeski Bridge might be something that sucks, that support through the European Social Fund for the Conservation of Jobs is unnecessary, that I don't list other sectors. The people are obvious, we ran that campaign. I see you'll bring back a team from the European Parliament like some of you back then, you were too young, bringing Farrag. I went to debate with him as the secretary of state who ran this entire campaign referendum. The man has never seen Croatia before, probably not these before. Let them stand there and take care of their countries, and we'll take care of our own.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58480	First we have a breach of the Rules of Procedure of fellow Sacic here.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58481	President-in-Office of the Parliament, Mr. President-in-Office of the Government. Certainly, as political opponents, we are reasonably expected that you will object, that you will give the kind of answer you have given, but it is not understood that you are disdaining Mr. Milanović litre, without it it it could have passed, so I ask the president to react.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58482	I didn't hear anything that disrespected MP Milanovic litre. So, uh... And I probably don't know why you think there was any damage to the Rules of Procedure, I don't think there was. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58483	Thank you, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament. Your Honor, Prime Minister. You didn't answer the question, but we know your answer. We know how you feel about the will of Croatian voters and how you have treated the referendum initiatives in Croatia so far. This is a continuation of your policy in which the Croatian people mean nothing to you, and the opinion of the Croatian people means nothing to you. If you are already referring to the European institutions Eurobarometer that did the survey a few months ago, only 23% of Croatian citizens are now making rapid entry into the euro area. Everyone else is either to cancel or to postpone or for any later entry, but that's irrelevant to you. I can also refer to the conditions you mentioned. When it went to vote here in HS, the conditions were much, much different than they are today. We would never have been in the RM2 system if there hadn't been a covid crisis and if the Commission hadn't suspended all those demands that were before that, it's not being spoken publicly, and that's a fact. The conditions aren't the same as they were when it was voted here. If you are talking about who receives any salary, so that both Ruža Tomasic and Mr Ilcic deserve their salary because they work there, and Ruža Tomasic, whose team I was on as an assistant to the European Parliament, fought to correct all the errors of the pre-accession negotiations that HDZ made when we entered the EU, and there were quite a number of them. And one of them was... blue fish and fishing in Croatia which Ruža Tomasic solved by her lobbying along with her team. We don't need to talk about it at all. Your modern sovereignty as you speak is not modern sovereignty, but there is deeper federalization of the EU and confiscation of sovereignty in front of the Member States.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58484	We are going to the 18th issue of MP Mrak Taritash is asking the Prime Minister, Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58485	Thank you very much, esteemed president of HS. Your Honor, Prime Minister. The population list is currently under way, and this is about the biggest venture that the country's official statistics are doing. We decided to switch to the census for spring when it was common for autumn, and the reason for that was the epidemiological conditions, i.e. the subject of the crown. We chose writers or could apply somewhere this summer when we knew we could expect a 4th wave in the fall. The condition for the censusors at no time was that they had to be either split or get over it or have confirmations, and now we have a problem. There's been a problem that we've been pointing to, there's been a problem that people who are going to be censuses in contact with someone else can really be in a very inappropriate situation. I am one of those who absolutely supports vaccination, and I support reasonable measures. You have recently announced certain measures related to certain groups of employees who will have to do so, so I must admit that it is quite unclear how such a failure could have been made when it comes to DZS, how it could have happened. And now that we've pointed out that it goes with one half solution. So, in any project that we're going into, and when we're well prepared, we don't get ready to finish. Why is that, Prime Minister? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58486	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58487	Thank you very much. Dear Mrs. Dark Taritash. As for the census, it was in electronic form by e-Citizens two days ago and I am very glad to see that 177,000 citizens are already registered by electronic means, which is good. This also points to a growing degree of digitisation, information literacy among our people, and ultimately only a few minutes of answering these questions and the matter is resolved without anyone coming to the home, so that's the point. As for the timing list, I have to admit I was among those in some internal debates that I thought was better done in the spring. At the time, most other people felt that given the circumstances that local elections were there at the time and that the role of units of local and regional self-government in the context of censusors was important, that we would overlap these processes and that it was easier to organise it in the autumn. The process is on its way. The epidemics are changing as you can see. I'm just like you a big supporter of most of our people being vaccinated, I've been saying that ever since the vaccines are available, and that's already full for nine months, and I don't think there's any dilemma or shredding that the censusors have to be either vaccinated or have Covid confirmed that they've been tested or they've been over it, and then with that confirmation they can come to people's house and make a list of pedestrians so I can say about those of our fellow citizens who won't do it by electronic means in the next two weeks. So, I think it's all in time, we heard Mrs. Brkovic's statement yesterday from the Chief Director of the State Statistics Institute, and I think the matter will be done in the best order of business without any problems or difficulties, and that we will have the results of the list of population in 2021 during which month. Anyway I think it's better to make it now than to make it next year. This video on August 31st is important to us. It is important for us to implement demographic policy, it is important for us to see how, ultimately, and socially and in some of the essential things, Croatian society stands and to see what we must do structurally to make our citizens live better. We expect it from that census, and I believe that in the end it will all be well done, that the censusors will receive the right compensation for their work and that they will not be the cause of God's spread of the epidemic for the very listing of people. As far as I'm concerned, this thing has been clear all this time, and the attitude of the profession, the epidemiologist, HZZ, the headquarters, communication with the DZS has finally led to the fact that the censusors must have Covid certificates as well as I think they do well to have in the health system. That is why this certificate serves among other things. And as for the measure, we were very careful, we were very careful. Few people were so careful not to be too intriguing and invasive towards the purpose of the Croatian people's lives, the development of economic flows, schools, traffic, other social activities, but at some point when the state provides enough vaccines, it is now an element and personal responsibility, especially those who are over 50, 60 years old to make an effort to vaccinate and protect their health because unfortunately 93% of our deceased are over 60 years old. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58488	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58489	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, that's exactly what the Prime Minister is talking about. Decisions taken are baggage, tampering, and therefore part of the country's population has decided not to vaccinate, not because they are anti-vaxers, but because they do not believe in the headquarters and do not believe in the decisions they make. The first answer when it was whether the censusors must be split or have confirmations was said so it was not necessary, so those where it can be done out in the open, so it can be done outside the apartment, so it can be done in the garden, on the terraces and on everything else. So the censusors enter our homes, our fellow citizens. A part of the citizens will decide on a list of e-citizens to make it easier for themselves and everyone else, but these censuses enter homes for the old and powerless, they enter a nursing home that you can't expect to have via e-citizens and then that by the last minute there was no clear answer whether they have to have certain conditions and censusors or not Mr. Prime Minister is bad because as soon as you start messing around and they have to, so they don't have to ask you at the same time, so they say that the check seems to have some times I have to, and sometimes I don't. So this was an opportunity when the state organizes something, when the state hires people for a particular job, that both the state and its clear attitude say towards vaccination and towards who has to be split up and in what way. Therefore, both this census and the way it was approached I speak in the context of Covid or the Corona has actually proved to be the whole time because this mistrust of our fellow citizens in all together is the reason for your tampering and luggage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58490	Let's move on. Now it is the 19th question, MP Darko Sobota asks him by the interior minister and Deputy Prime Minister Davor Bozinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58491	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Croatian Prime Minister with ministers and ministers, distinguished Minister Bozinovic in the Croatian public has shown some concern over the situation in Afghanistan, especially with the possible reception of refugees and migrants from Afghanistan to the Republic of Croatia. The concern is certainly expressed by a certain fear of a possible new migration wave shown by a crossing of Croatian borders. What I want you to answer here is for me and us, in fact, how much and who influences the arrival of refugees and migrants from Afghanistan to the Republic of Croatia, and is the concern of the Croatian public justified but also the citizens of the new migration wave in the Republic of Croatia that we witnessed several years ago? Furthermore, I ask you to respond to the situation at EU level, how many migration crossings at EU level have been recorded? We are witnesses and we know that the Croatian state is giving certain subsidiary protection to refugees and migrants from other countries and approves of asylum, so please answer us how many of these citizens are at the level of the year and in fact from which country are they coming from? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58492	Here you go, Minister, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58493	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliamentarian, thank you for opening this topic that is very important. It is not a topic discussed only in Croatia, it is debated in all European countries, it is debated around the world, and especially after the experience we had in both Croatia and Europe in 2015/2016. Mr. when the waves of refugees and migrants were moving uncontrollably across our territory and all the way to their final destination. This experience, along with this latest experience, but given our geopolitical position, tells us that the issue of migration is a matter beyond the mandate of a government, I would say the mandate of several generations. It will, unfortunately, be dealt with by generations that are yet to come and live in our places because the realities are unfortunately in the world like this. As Government from day one, we have been aware that this issue should be approached strategically and precisely respecting the fact that we cannot deal with migration from today to tomorrow, from crisis to crisis, but that we should be asked to know what our main ways of action are and this is seen in our policy. First of all, we have done everything to strengthen the external border, the longest EU external border, that is our border, with the people. We have over 6500 thousand border police officers, but there are all other police services, several hundred members and special and intervention and criminal police who are engaged daily in the protection of the border. Secondly, we have put a strong emphasis on the fight against crime, or organised crime, smuggling of these people, and in our mandate are more than 3.5 thousand criminals, therefore detected, arrested and prosecuted because they are involved in this dirty work that, according to some indicators, today becomes a more lucrative business than drug trafficking. And the third thing, we've invested a lot in police equipment, and that's like these two previous directions, which is actually a process, so this government itself has invested more than 200 million euros in modernising and equipping the police. At the same time, we did not stay closed as some want to say, throughout this time, only this year we have received a request for about 1700 asylums in the Republic of Croatia, half of it, it was the same part of your question, are citizens of Afghanistan, but from some earlier experiences we think there will be more and more because most of them are people who have no documents, so there was once a large majority of Syrians, these are Afghans. At this point, 126 Afghans are seeking international assistance, including those 19 we evacuated and received and placed in the Republic of Croatia. At this moment No one can say how much and how this situation will develop, but we're doing everything and doing everything we can. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] to be sure. [[Intruder: Thank you Minister.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58494	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58495	Thank you very much. I thank Mr. Minister for your comprehensive response, but I thank you for further information, and I believe that this legitimate concern and the Croatian public, but also Croatian citizens, will be less after your reply. But I thank you and congratulate you on your work and on your work, not only those 6500 police officers who are at the border, but also all those who have made their selfless contribution to the preservation of actually one stability of peace that we enjoy today. I thank the government, of course, for your selfless help and your resources, but also for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58496	The 20th question, MP Emil Daus asks Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58497	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister. Constitutional changes, since 2000 in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, have introduced, among other things, the concept of regional self-government, then thanks to the IDS that has insisted on it. In addition to other articles that define the part-round work, in art. 4 It states that the state authority in the Republic of Croatia is set up on the principle of the division of government, legislative, executive and judicial, and is limited by the Constitution of a guaranteed right to local and regional or regional self-government. In these 20 years, practice has shown quite the opposite, that actually regional self-government is limited by state authority, so my question is when I finally think about giving greater authority to regional self-government, and thus raise, of course, their responsibility, but also their effectiveness because it will result in much faster implementation of decisions, more efficient results in all those areas that are in the control of regional self-government, education, health, transport, spatial order and everything else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58498	Here you are, Prime Minister, the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58499	Thank you very much, Mr. Daus. Congratulations on the election of the new party president. I'm glad the IDS is being consolidated. It's about a good man and my friend. As for your thesis on the Constitution, constitutional changes, division of power, regional self-government, so I think that if any government has made huge steps towards the units of local and regional self-government, then that's our government, and that's four basic principles. I had the impression that I was always saying that we all caught it somehow, but let me say it again. So, first and foremost, we conduct a dialogue without precedent with the county, with the association of cities and with the Croatian Community of municipalities. Since the second month of our first government, since December 2016 every 6 months with the exception of this crown situation because we couldn't physically meet, but there were several video conferences, we had a permanent dialogue. Mr Miletic also knew that Mr. Radin knew that, Mr. Flego knew that, with all the mayors and presidents of the association of cities, the association of municipalities, your recent parliamentary colleague and president of the Committee on Regional Self-Government, on all the important topics of Croatia. There is no budgetary aspect, law, programme, European topics, a project that was relevant to the counties, cities and municipalities that we previously had before a decision was made we did not debate thoroughly through this dialogue. Secondly, we follow the principles of functional and fiscal and third, fiscal decentralisation. So, I am convinced that the principle of subsidiarity with the principle of proportionality which are the two most important principles in general for the functioning of any system, and in particular the multi-level management system of Croatia, we must apply. I keep telling ministers about any topic that it is difficult for us from the level of government, Zagreb, this building to hang more HS, in the Banski dvori to know better what is important for a municipality in Funtan, say in Istria, or that the mayor of the municipality might know. I think he can know better than we can. Therefore, anything that can be decided at a lower level is up to me. As regards the fiscal decentralisation of the law of 2017 We gave such capacity and strength to local and regional self-government units with increased original incomes that many of them jumped 100%, 100%. The Istrian County is highly developed and perhaps the effect was lower. But when was this crisis supposed to happen, who was behind your employees in the private sector in the time of the covid crisis? Here's what I'm looking at is 240 million kuna for 10,000 workers in Istria, given the state through HZZ and helped whom, helped the county, the city and the municipality where these people live, the companies that survived, bridged the crisis. The fourth element was the implementation of projects either by national means or by European means. And on the other hand, the way a new multi-annual financial framework is planned to strengthen cities, municipalities, intervene in those parts of Croatia where we obviously have a disproportionateness in development I think we are keeping a strong account. And that's why on that side plus this county issue where I see that the SDP went with the fact that they don't like the county, we like it, and we'll stay, we won't change them and we won't take them away. So that's where I think we're on the same track. I invite you to the excellent cooperation we have so far to continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58500	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58501	Thank you very much as we'd like to be told, Madam Prime Minister, I don't think we've made it all the way. This is not a question of your communication with the regions and I welcome some that have been happening lately. Not exactly the state gave money, money created by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, the state rerouted it. I'll try to be a little graphic, even if it turns out to be funny. The Republic of Croatia has its coat of arms, beautiful and beautiful coat of arms, above it there are 5 coat of arms of historical Croatian regions, 4th in a row is a goat representing the region of Istria which is not a county, the region is even with Liburnia and Istrian islands that were taken from us there in the '90s, but this is another topic. Let's go back to that goat, that caring goat, 30 years old. And then every one so much as casts a little shadow upon her, and yet again to her husband, no, but she was sick and tired of it, just like the Istrians and her true masters. And no one asks for more than what the Republic of Croatia prescribes. What are we afraid of, greater differences between regions? I mean someone does a little bit more, someone does a little bit less or I get some other circumstances, so maybe some region is more developed, we're not looking for help, we're just looking for tools that we can work and create and give it to other regions, of course not just Istria, it's not that question. In a few years I guarantee you will see what is sustainable which is not and you will see real progress so that decentralisation is not only when you need to talk but really live the way it should. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58502	The 21st question by Representative Sandra Bencic points it to Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58503	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, more than half a year has been the tape with the election of the Supreme Court president. Well, first of all, you didn't get the Professor's answer. Zlata Djurdjevic reportedly was proposed by the president in the first edition beyond the call. Afterwards, we had a third call and it seemed that there was an agreement and that HDZ would support the current candidate of the Republic of the Republic of Dobronic. It's about the judge, and I really want to point out who has exactly what our judiciary is missing, which is citizens' trust. However, he does not seem to suit you allegedly because he has failed to meet the standard. It turns out that the norm is much more important than courage, than legal knowledge and public trust. From that menu, you act as if you are deliberately or with a certain purpose making it difficult to elect a Supreme Court President. And what I'm interested in is whether your indecision is related to Judge Dobrinić's assessment that your government in the Agrokor affair has failed to liquidate the factoring of society so that part of the damage that has taken place between the other and the small shareholders can be reconciled from their assets? In doing so, Dobrinić explained on this particular example why the judge who deals with complex cases is not always able to achieve the norm, and he sees the case as the issue of the Agrokor affair is still closed because the settlement is where, the revision of the settlement is where, in the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court has not decided on this in the last two years and has yet to decide. Now, I wonder if there's any motivation to make it difficult for the Supreme Court president to choose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58504	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58505	Dear Representative Bencic, I enjoy watching NGOs activism transformed into political parties with one-on-one media support always go to the most creative and amazing scenarios. I'm enjoying myself. But since I don't know what you thought it was about, let's say me or HDZ has something against Judge Dobronic. Who said that, who said that and where did you see that would make some deal? But come on, I'm gonna use these 3.5 minutes for something else. I am sorry that the new Supreme Court president is not yet the current European Court of Human Rights Vice-President Ksenija Turkovic, who was the first real choice, around which the consensus would reach here in February before Prof. Djurdjevic. You know why she wasn't chosen? Not because I, as someone from the corner of the parliamentary majority, would not want to, on the contrary, but because someone did not want to suggest it after he offered it, and when she said it could in legal procedure, in legal procedure under the Law on Courts and with a wide consent, he no longer wanted to propose. You're imputing us to slow down the election of the Supreme Court president, since you probably don't know this, or if you don't want to say it, bring it down to some wish that we're making it harder for the Supreme Court president to choose the Supreme Court. It's just not true. I would be happy if, after nine years at the European Court of Human Rights, the former procurator of the Zagreb University of Material Criminal Law, where everyone was proposed in a legal procedure in a second. And for her to vote for me would probably even have Mr. litre voted for her even though she came from Strasbourg. 150 MPs would probably be for her. You know when? In the spring. About this topic would be a non-stop issue. Did we force a procedure that was illegal? Did we as long as the public call goes forward say I don't care if anyone answered and I'll put that on? Did we do it? What kind of methodology is that? What's that? What is the genre of the election methodology of the Supreme Court President in this way? That's what I'd like to hear as you as an ex-aktivist, a politician today. And for you to impute, I didn't even notice that Mr. Dobronic said it, that hearing was, he wasn't the only candidate there were five of them. I asked my colleagues, and I asked some other lawyers what they thought. Well, I guess it's not the only thing to pass judgment in one case that's important, important, which concerns a lot of people that it's the only topic on which someone should be President of the Supreme Court. Could any other candidate have been bad, worse, weaker, shown ignorance, shown lack of faith perhaps in the functioning of the court? Or why, in 2013, when the Croat three-times elected president of the Supreme Court that same Supreme Court was not the boys club, they had no blue eyes and agreed on who, what wasn't the subject then? I didn't hear you talk about it then either. How were those not topics? And I've had enough of that imputation of HDZ's justice, influence on the judiciary. We're doing the consultation process and we'll decide And we'll tell you when. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58506	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58507	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, I'm glad you enjoy my questions. I must say that I especially enjoy your answers to my questions about Agrokor, your answer is always NGOs activists where NGOs activists are something bad that probably a friend of Orban taught you. And that's where we get the idea that you don't agree with Judge Dobronic's choice, so I don't know, you just spent three minutes arguing about why he's not good enough, but you have a candidate who would be better. So somehow you killed yourself here. From all we've heard at the hearing about Judge Dobronic, he has broad knowledge, that he has the courage to make difficult decisions. The attempt to discredit him through DSV's strict procedure because he didn't meet the public standard looks exactly what he is, which is the challenge of four circles. Now we've heard from you why four circles are being challenged. Dobranić is known in public for his conviction in the case of Franak, yes. Why, though, is that judgment important, and why does it insist on showing a certain quality from there? Because she had far-reaching consequences for the relations between financial institutions and citizens. And the same case, with the same case if not greater financial repercussions and especially political for your government, is a revision of the settlement in the case of Agrokor which, in the event of an incident and that the illegality of the settlement would have such economic consequences and probably greater than the Franak case, but most of the consequences of your government which has made such a settlement possible by Agrokor, and that is why Judge Dobrnic will probably not become the President of the Supreme Court because he has shown that he has the courage to bring Decisions in difficult times. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58508	Thank you very much. Let's go to 22 questions, representative Sabina Glasovac asks him as culture and media minister, Obulen Koržinek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58509	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Ministers of Culture and Media. In July of this year, the Council for Electronic Media awarded 15 years in the middle of the season as the most favourable provider of the concession, which by the end of May at the frequency Radio 101 to the trading company "Top Radio" d.o.o. The members of the council at that time should have known the well-known fact that the offerer comes from a media cartel that has held a hidden monopoly over radio stations in the Republic of Croatia for decades, which is illegal and fatal for the development of freedom of media and pluralism, which was also warned by the Croatian Journalist Society. This is a matter of eclectic violation of at least two laws, it is the Law on Media and the Law on Electronic Media, and I hope that this situation will be explored by all relevant institutions. One of the competent institutions is also your ministry, which is headed by the Ministry of Culture and Media, so I ask you respected culture and media ministers what the Ministry of Culture has done or what actions it has taken to determine whether there are indications of the media cartel and what are you doing to ensure the transparency of real ownership in the media and to prevent such cartels and possible media manipulation?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58510	Minister, here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58511	Dear MPs, the Voter. I'm sorry that you repeat this question even though you were on a committee on which we elaborated it yesterday, and you're re-emphasizing that our government or the ministry that I'm supposed to do something illegal, which is exactly what you're calling for. You call for lawlessness or a violation of the law, which would represent any step if the ministry questioned the decisions of an independent regulator, you know it very well, and no matter what, you re-sell the subject. So, the Ministry of Culture and Media, in accordance with the current law, and even the one we're proposing now, is not competent to oversee the work of regulators. It is the Parliament's jurisdiction, please invite members of the Council for Electronic Media to the session, as far as I understand it will happen soon and you ask them everything you want to know about it. As for what the president of the Press Society said yesterday, I can do it here again because I said it yesterday and in conversation with him and on the board. It is totally unacceptable to make a statement claiming that the Prime Minister can order an investigation, so such a claim was made by the HND that the Prime Minister could order an investigation into something written in the media and that of those who are all the time pronouncing freedom of the media. So, something travelly unacceptable. And to your question about what we're doing about the transparency of ownership in the media, let me remind you of what I said yesterday, the draft final proposal of the Electronic Media Act yesterday was on the board, it will be at the plenary session next week, our proposals have been included already in the first reading. Therefore, the obligation to publish ownership in the media according to the register of real owners, 2 public publications in the media on sources of funding, 3 obligations when financing media to do so through competitions and according to publicly published criteria. So, unlike you, who are imputing that we, as well as some non-democratic states, would share or withdraw concessions as Government and ignore the fact that, among other things, we have adopted certain standards in which independent regulators operate independently is totally unacceptable and unfounded in law. So, I'll repeat in the end, you have power as a Parliament, you call on members and members of the Council for Electronic Media, I have publicly called on them, and that's where I stop by respecting the law to publicly explain their decisions. They're vague to me in part, but it's not the ministry's jurisdiction to question them. Call them, ask them, ask them to determine all the circumstances, and then you can talk further. While our government is here in this position, and you there and while I am a minister, I am certainly not going to do anything that is contrary to the law adopted by this House. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58512	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58513	I'm the last person to call for a violation of the law and don't bribe me. Please, dear Minister. I didn't expect you to do anything but wash your hands off your responsibility as well as on the number of other cases, and in fact you're very, very involved in very ugly things that happen in the field of culture and media in the Republic of Croatia. I expected you to say that I should address the Council for Electronic Media because it is an independent body, and the devil sees most of the members of this very electronic media council that awarded this concession is quite the HDZ. And be it a good thing that you're interested as a minister as to why one bidder who already controls certain radio stations has received concessions at another radio station, which you know is an eclectic violation of the law. But I'm telling you, I'm not surprised at you at all that in this case you don't want to act as a minister but as some sort of fantasy at the Ministry of Culture while on the other hand very skillfully as a minister and through your godfather and family ties you influence many things, so you're protecting the head of the HNK who's been mobilising the employees of the same theatre, and you're also very clearly networked with the former director of HRT who's in custody of Mr. Bačić with his successor and so on. You're not a minister, you're a protector, you're a protector, you're a protector, and you're a big capital, you're an ugly thing, and you're also a corruption that happens in the fields of culture and the media. That's sad.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58514	Comrade Voter, for such difficult claims, they also need proof. ... Well, you didn't exactly say, I would ask you to, please, when you say something like that, to make sure that you have to prove and argue. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Let's move on. It is now up to counterpart Škoro, who sets up the Minister of Culture and Media Obuljen Koržinek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58516	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor. Minister. According to different measures, our country has been encumbered in corruption, crime, lies, double standards, in our country, kidnapping and fraud are the usual way of acting because there is no responsibility. The biggest scam was privatization, and here's a case you know, and that's why we're going to raise the question from it. January 22, '93. Mr. Based on his assessment, he was privatized.../incomprehensible/... diva Jugoton, current Croatia Records. At the request of the Croatian Music Union on 12 December 2014 The Centre for Restructuring and Sales, therefore on 21 October, 2 years later, in 2016, made a decision that the assessment did not show the value of the recordings or phonograms, i.e. B catalog. This means that these videos, as well as the revenues they make, belong to the state or to all of us. Croatia Records has launched a court dispute, it is also known to you, but in the first and second stages a CERRP solution has been confirmed and they said it is the right thing to do. Every year, so our citizens lose money, and these money doesn't go to the state, it goes to private pockets. You and former ministry officials, the management of state property were familiar with this case, so I'm curious. Why didn't you ask for a temporary measure based on which, until the end of these processes and these strips, the money that should belong to the state, would be placed on a special account or so on. Black box and who's responsible for the damage that's going on in tens of millions of kunas? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58517	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58518	Thank you, Mr. Skoro. When you started asking the question, then I thought whether you were going to ask him as a performer, as an author or as a discographer because you were a part of various privatisations in the industry and you certainly knew the situation very well because you were in co-ownership or in ownership relations with a number of companies, some of you today are, doing business, some of you are not doing business, some of you are lost, etc., but I understood your question as a really representative of the Parliament that is interested in public interest in this, and I think it's good to open this topic that really from the position and revision of conversion and privatisation and even questions of treatment of copyright and intellectual property, extremely important. This dispute, as you know and as you have quoted, was launched before our mandate, the first-degree verdict was made at the beginning of our mandate to counter certain possible solutions, then in the law on archives, which are here, some of your political associates, present or former, glued to him some other labels, and actually dealt with the metrics, we created one space in this Law if such a verdict becomes powerful, that the state that could become, in that case, the owner of that intellectual property, could manage that intellectual property, I'm sure you've read that article. During this year, there was a second-degree verdict that was announced by the owners of some other legal medicines, we referred, as the Ministry of Culture and Media, which is interested in the metrics, but not directly competent, to consultations with different resolutions, primarily the portfolio that is the successor of the then Ministry of Privatisation and should be seen in which way further that judgment should be handled. It's really about whether, in fact, it's been missed, and obviously it's failed to show the value of phonograms as material things, regardless of what the phonogram was then defined by law, whether it's missed the value of intellectual property at the same time. According to preliminary reading, and second-degree judgments, it is not clearly stated, but we will certainly in the period ahead of us seriously commit ourselves, we will consult here and your book and your doctoral dissertation, if anything can help us, but in any case, what is most important, and also in light of the adoption of this Law on Copyright and Related Rights is that the result and these judgments and this law are focused on the improvement of all our artists and artists and authors and discographers and I believe that a solution will be found. As far as this particular issue of a temporary measure is concerned, there are some lawyers who believe it was necessary to do so, there are others who believe that the power of judgment, or a second-degree solution, should be awaited, and we will also see what happens next.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58519	There you go, the obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58520	Thank you very much, ma'am. Minister. So you, as Minister and Doctor of Science, must distinguish the privatisation process from entrepreneurship. The privatisation process was in 1993, so I really didn't participate in it, as in any other privatisation process, but as an entrepreneur, yes, I did, I did, I did, and I hope it's not punishable no matter how much I sometimes get the impression from your party that you're against entrepreneurship. But to bring people closer to what this is about, it's about saying 2019. Croatia Records shows profits or make revenue from rights and digital distribution at the level of 16 million kuna. A year earlier, it was 15 million kunas. All relevant indicators and surveys say that 2/3 of these incomes are waste on the so-called so-called. The B catalogue that you and I have now established exists, if anything else, at least as you say a dispute, is still justified through two court rulings and through a decision by the Cer Agency, so now it's not someone from the street or someone like me who has paralyzed on the subject. If you're looking at the time since the HGU application, it's 70 million kuna is 7 years old, if you're looking at the time since the CERRP solution is released again it's 50 million kuna, if you're looking at the time since '93. So to this day, sales and revenues from this catalogue are so big that the state can really even ask for a new ownership stake in the company, and I have nothing against it, although there are hardworking people working there and they are nothing to blame, it's the state's fault that doesn't react. And I hope that maybe this question will offer you or some others to start what is necessary, which is therefore parking that money or expressing a temporary measure based on which to stop further draining of our money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58521	Thank you. Now MP Antolic Vupor will ask the question of Minister of Science and Education Radovan Fuchs, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58522	Dear President, I ask the question of Minister of Science and Education Radovan Fuchs, so the question concerns the school year in which he began to bring the same problems to both parents and students. The extended stay is only one of the problems, which is that it is not available to all students in the Republic of Croatia. Only some municipalities, or cities and counties that were founding schools, could organise extended stays in accordance with their financial capacities. I ask Mr. Minister when will the extended stay be available to all students in the Republic of Croatia and what is the status of teachers in these extended stays?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58523	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58524	So, Your Honor, ma'am. MPs, extended stay is of course something that has been discussed for a very long time in the Croatian education system. A lot of variations were mentioned once. What the Government of the Republic of Croatia is currently implementing is one reform of complete pre-school and primary education with a part equally in higher education, and precisely for the purpose and for the purpose of enabling all students in the Republic of Croatia attending primary school not to stay longer than a day-long course. We like to talk about the day-to-day extension because in principle, in this approach, it is. The stay can be over and connected to some kind of childcare. In this case, what we want to do is teach all day long because students in the Republic of Croatia in primary school compared to their other colleagues in other countries have far the smallest number of active hours. This was one of the reasons why certain skills of understanding, communication, and transfer and interpretation of acquired knowledge are not needed and trained with them. Therefore, the NPOO provides for this particular segment of total science and education 7.5 billion of which 5 billion go towards primary and pre-school education, pre-school education in the sense that all kindergartens in the Republic create capacities or build all these capacities to make sure that all children in Croatia attend the preparatory year before they start in the 1st grade, and that parallel to building and building new schools are all on one shift and work from 8am to 3pm, or, if necessary, some local administrations and self-government depending on the interest and up to 5pm. I say that the funds are secured, already all more or less of the contacts of the county, municipalities and cities in terms of needs and ways of obtaining funds in progress, and the range of tenders will be the call for submission of the project documentation in about a month or two until technical preparations are completed. I say the money is secured, therefore that part of which is done by local administrations and self-government in terms of project documentation, then goes to check the project documentation and the approval of funds, public procurement is carried out by local administrations and I hope that Croatia will have enough building capacity to build what we have planned, given that the funds are available to us.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58525	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58526	Thank you very much. I'm not happy with the answer, I'm not happy with myself and how I perceive it, but because of that, another school year has gone into planning a future that never comes. And you didn't answer the most important thing that I'm actually going to ask you for right now is the written answer, and that's what with teachers in that extended follow-up? So, the situation is that teachers in the extended teaching class are already 10-15 years old. contracts for a certain time, so it's overwork and they can't get a contract indefinitely. The thing is even worse because now by reducing class classes, by reducing class, one part of the teacher goes into an extended room and leaves a permanent job for the one to an indefinite one. That way he can't get no credit, no vacation. So these teachers just don't give a shit. An extended stay was established in Varazdin for all students and a permanent working relationship was given to all teachers. I'm asking the Ministry to do a similar thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58527	Question number 25, Bartulica's representative asks the Minister of Health, William Berosha. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58528	Thank you. Dear Minister Beroš from the beginning of the outbreak of this pandemic we could hear very different opinions about what needs to be done, what measures are necessary and similar. Your colleague Capak, for example last year, said that it makes no sense to ask people to wear masks when they enter certain rooms if they are healthy, and now we have a situation for children in schools to wear. Regardless of these opinions, we will agree that in Croatia there is a high level of contention with the work of the headquarters, we can say that we have a clear picture of who are the winners and who are the losers in this pandemic. The winners clearly include the pharmaceutical industry and these testing centres. I'd say losers must be children whose growing up is marked by this pandemic. However, this is the same opportunity for individuals to increase human control and now we are entering a new phase I would say where you announced the introduction of Covid certificate for all healthcare workers and social care services, etc. However, your colleague in Israel, Minister of Health Stern, has publicly confirmed that the Covid certificate is mainly used to force people to split. My question is whether for employees now since October 1st who do not want to be tested, and who are not vaccinated, means a large number of people, can refusal of testing be the basis for firing, for firing and losing their jobs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58529	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58530	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. Parliamentary Representative, I would like to agree with you that, from the beginning of this epidemic, it took a lot of knowledge and skill to take certain measures that would result in positive steps in the fight against this virus. You were talking about winners and losers, I don't know if it's possible to talk about it that way. The fact is that some earn profits, however, should be thanked at the same time for making it possible for the world's civilization, the vaccine in a fast and accessible way. Furthermore, it is also a matter of our behaviour and our relationship to the virus. I think this is how we allow the virus to lead at this point, I don't really believe it's going to be a winner, but in any case, we have a cure to fight it, and I think we should use it. When it comes to confirmation in the context of the health system, I believe you can imagine what a basic postulate is to me, which is to enable the safety of providing health care and how Covid is to positive patients, especially those of others. So, each of us is a possible sick person tomorrow. Do we want to go to an insecure health environment in the health system? I'm sure we don't want that. It is my job to provide safety for healthcare professionals, but also for healthcare users, and this is not only the direction of movement in Croatia but in Europe. So the confirmation is not something that is optimal that guarantees health security, but at this point is the best instrument that we can go in this direction to achieve security. Just to avoid being exclusive, we have made it possible to test for those who are not either vaccinated or overexperienced. We even went so far as to think, despite our being called by many, that during the transitional period, these tests would be paid by the employer or the state. So we do everything we can to avoid pressure or obligation or discrimination against healthcare professionals. But let's look at the basic postulates, which is a matter of health care security. I think this is one necessary step in the context of growing numbers that will emphasize this particular security. When it comes to the fact that someone refuses antigen testing if they're paid to do the same, I don't see a rational decision for that. So anyone who performs a health process must meet some basic elements especially in the original circumstances how a global pandemic is. In order to carry out their duties in normal times, healthcare professionals must have a sanitary card guaranteeing their health care. Why not use those elements at the time of the epidemic and the global pandemic and have a test that indicates that they are not dangerous for their colleagues at work or for their patients. This is something that is indeed a challenging step in the direction of job security, and how we will treat those who refuse to test, although I do not know what the reasons for such treatment would be, lawyers will find an absolutely adequate answer and on this issue by taking the Labour Act, the Labour Safety Act and all those legal regulations relating to this issue. However, to me as Minister of Health at this point, it is imperative to provide health care in the health system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58531	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58532	Thank you. As far as security in the system is concerned, I fully agree that this is one big responsibility. We have seen that one hospital in Macedonia has burned down, Covid hospital due to high oxygen flow probably just increases when such Covid patients are largely in those rooms. So our hospitals have to adapt over time, and we're aware of that. However, the fact that vaccination did not guarantee that someone could not infect and carry the virus on. Therefore, these measures again point to the creation of a new normal state, a new normal, where all these workers are brought into this situation where they will have to make decisions in conscience, so we know that a large number of older populations have not been vaccinated yet. So, and priority groups aren't, for example, on those, on, with these measures, let's say, insured so far, for whatever reason, they just don't want to. So this in response was unclear whether these people might get fired, if, I don't know what reason, I don't get into it, but we'll agree that in this pandemic, a large number of people behave in different ways. Therefore, this may happen, in the future, that a number of employees do not do so and we are interested, should actually respond firmly that they will not get fired, that is my opinion, and this in Israel, they have had a high level of fissure, but the same is true. The trouble is still happening, so let's see if there's an epidemic solved there. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58533	Thank you very much. Let's go to the 20th question. Representative Josip Djakic will be appointed by Defence Minister Banožić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58534	Thank you very much, Mr. HS, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Madam and Mr. Minister, my question will be addressed to the Minister of Defence of the Republic of Croatia. Mr. Minister of the Republic of Croatia, we have witnessed that in recent months the Croatian Army has been putting out fires throughout the Republic of Croatia, helping civil structures, helping the Croatian Fire Department and giving them great support. Fires in the Republic of Croatia have been frequented and major engagement, as in all other disasters is the Croatian Army. It is only one of the constitutional tasks it fulfils in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, but we also see it in neighbouring countries. Please give us a closer look at how much the Croatian Army has been involved in the past months in all the fires, as well as outside the Republic of Croatia, so that the Croatian, public, but we representatives have a visual picture of what the Croatian Army is doing.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58535	Defence Minister Marija Banozic's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58536	Dear Vice-President of HS, MPs and MPs, Honorable Representative Djakić, above all, thank you as Croatian defender, today you are interested in the Croatian Army, its development, modernisation and equipment on which intensive work is held. You yourself touched the fire season in question stemming from the constitutional task of the Croatian Army to support local communities, i.e. support to civil institutions, and thus we got involved in the fire-fighting season this year which officially started on 21 June was already the first day we were active in the fire-fighting squadron. In particular, to this day, we have had more than 267 different requirements from the fire community, of which 265 specifically referred to fire protection of air and 2 interventions related to the engagement of the Land Army because, based on constitutional tasks, all three components are included in all three cities are included in fire protection, so with fire protection from the air, we also have an army of land, but also the Croatian Navy, as well as Orbiter, the unmanned Orbiter 3 system, in this way, we are really giving one strong support to the firefighters and thus we can work together. In these 267 interventions there are 127 fires, and in approximate numbers, it is somewhere more than 5,000 hours of flight that has been hired over 800 hours of impact and more than 24 tons of water has been thrown out. And after every day, our pilots and technicians are taking care of our machinery and equipment that we have to be ready for the next day because that way we've really been running 24 hours since 21 June this year. Also, under the Law on Defence, based on the government's decision since March of this year, we have had interventions related to humanitarian aid abroad in other countries through the fire relief mechanism, EU level and in this we have achieved, 2 interventions, one in Turkey and Greece, and we also had 4 in neighbouring BiH. In this way, more than 376 hours of flight, or more than 100 hours of flight, threw out more than 2,000 tonnes of water and what is most important, our pilots and technicians have indeed become aware, not only of the local population that was expected to help, but also of all the other members of the defence countries in which they participated, because indeed, with this engagement, they show that they are one of the best air aid providers, when it comes to fire extinguishing, which is obvious, I say, ultimately, in the very functioning, I am sure that by the end of this season we will continue to carry out our tasks, but also to provide security for the citizens, but also, one extraordinary promotion of the Republic of Croatia that we are able, we know, although we are much smaller than these countries that I mentioned, we can really do a lot of that we do very well in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58537	Dear Representative Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58538	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister, for the specific answer with specific numbers. In the involvement of the Croatian Army in saving from the fires of our cities and places, I congratulate on all the successes achieved by our pilots both at home and abroad, I want them to remain ready, but to keep as few fires as possible. I thank all those who were engaged in all the fires, all the soldiers, the troops, and their commanders. May they continue to serve their homeland faithfully.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58539	The next question will be asked by respected representative Natalija Martincevic, the minister of the sea, transport and infrastructure, Oleg Butkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58540	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister Butković, the biggest and certainly most important project for northern Croatia, especially for Varazdinska and Međimurska County, is the fast track of Čakovec-Varaždin-Leposlava-Zabok-Zagreb. It is also a key part of the People's Party Reformists programme, which was introduced to this particular government on our request. How has the new government in Varazdin County changed the priorities for development projects I would ask you to clearly and unequivocally answer whether this project is going further or when it will be agreed to complete designing that because of the lack of documentation we do not put ourselves in a position to lose European funds, and hence this big project, we are talking about a project worth over 400 million euros and funding 85% of the EU? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58541	The answer of the respected Minister Butkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58542	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, I thank you for asking. Current investments in transport infrastructure are around 25 billion kunas, mostly in road and rail infrastructure, although port infrastructure is something that is invested and spoken of today. This 10-year-old before us will be the 10th year of railways mainly because road infrastructure, highway in Croatia, is built, is at an enviable level, so we will mostly be these next 10 years. through all funding instruments, which are European funds and NPOOs of course and credit and state budget funds to be targeted when we talk about transport infrastructure mainly towards the railway. As far as the specific issue is concerned, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is still 2018. In accordance with Article 21 of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. One of these is what's called. Lepoglavska spont, a more accurate railway connecting Čakovec, Varazdin and Zagreb, is a fast track and in this sense in late 2018 is a signed grant agreement on the development of a feasibility study, and after we agreed to get 3 traffic technical solutions that were very expensive, it was a very expensive stock, the amount was around 700m euros, and then we were looking for some new solutions and there was a fourth solution that was much cheaper, of course we needed the Krapina-Zagorje County consent which agreed to one new section that goes through Bedekovčina and that part that will de facto reduce the amount of that railway. At this point, we have delivered these 4 solutions to JASPERS and we will have the answers of the European Commission by the end of this year to accept that fourth variant and possible European funding. I believe that it will be positive since it is our priority and, of course, regardless of which, the European Commission's response to European funding will be launched by mid-tenth month by HZ-Infrastructure will open a tender for full project documentation, namely, ideas and main projects, meaning building permits, but the competition will be so conceived that it will be based on the rules of European funds in a way that if European funding is accepted we do not actually waste time but we have bought time and we have moved forward with this project. All in all, this project goes on and here I believe that by the end of the year, so in the middle of the 10th month there will be a tender for complete project documentation by HZ-Infrastructure, and I believe in a positive outcome around European financing and green light for financing this project by the end of this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58543	Dear Representative Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58544	Here's a thank you for the answer. I'd just like to warn you of a few facts. The first is that this project is going extremely, extremely slowly, regardless of all the reasons you've stated, it's going slowly again. I won't say he was obstructed, but certainly you know it yourself, he was quite slow. The second fact, therefore, that the priorities for the Varazdin County have changed as far as this is concerned, so I ask you to keep an eye on that and the third thing is that, I don't think there's anything slower than the HZ in any way, and so on the preparation of the documentation, so I really ask you and I appeal to you as a resolute minister, and also to Prime Minister Plenkovic, who I know stands firmly behind this project, that as it is said, you encourage and follow everything that happens so we don't really miss deadlines and that we don't get in a position to lose these funds because of the lack of documentation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58545	The next question will be asked by a respected representative, Marijana Balic, Deputy Prime Minister and Croatian Defence Minister Tomi Medveda, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58546	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice-President HS, the esteemed Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, ministers and ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I will ask how it has been said to ask the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Croatian Defence. In the past period, you mentioned that the construction of the first of the four veteran centres will be completed by the end of this year. Given the importance and need of veterinary centres, I'm interested in what stage it is, and I'm also interested in when the other centres, planned veterinary centres, will be completed or set up? Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58547	The reply of the respected Deputy Prime Minister and Croatian Defence Minister Medved.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58548	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Dear Representative Balic, thank you very much for this question. As Croatian defenders and Croatian public and MPs and MPs in HS have been known many times about this issue we have informed here. Certainly one of the directions of our activities in the Croatian Ministry of Defence, and with regard to creating assumptions and resolving all those open issues that have plagued or still plagued the population of Croatian defenders and victims of the Homeland War, is the creation of such forms of support as veteran centres. Namely, veteran centres are designed to establish institutions where users will be given comprehensive care in one place. The Croatian Defence Ministry has for the first time used EU funds to create a prerequisite for helping the population of Croatian defenders and victims of the Homeland War by building four veteran centres in Daruvar, Petrinja, Sibenik and Sinj totalling 339 million kuna, of which 85% was co-financed by the European Regional Development Fund. In order to build a network of veteran centres with cities where they are built, we are 2019. We signed the agreement, and after the selection process we started in the summer of 2020. The construction of these four veteran centres will create accommodation facilities for the stay of about 12,000 users per year. Out of four veterinary centres, construction centre in Sibenik was completed nearly six months before the deadline and a useful permit was issued on 1 September of this year. The centre will have the capacity to receive around 2,700 users per year. At the end of September, we'll start the equipment, so it'll be in 2022. be ready to start working or to receive users. By the end of this year, the Veteran Centre in Sinj will be ready for technical inspection where we plan to complete construction works, and the completion of construction works in the remaining two centres in Daruvar and Petrinja will be completed in 2022. A administrative parallel with all these activities in August this year was established a public institution of veteran centres registered in the Court Register. We plan to develop a project to build veterinary centres in other cities, and through the programming process to the new eu financial perspective, I am fulfilling the preconditions for further expanding the network of veteran centres as well as for co-financing of the programmes to be implemented. And to end, by establishing these veteran centres, we will certainly contribute to improving the quality of life of Croatian defenders and members of their families. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58549	Dear Representative Balic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58550	I thank you, dear Deputy Prime Minister and Croatian Defence Minister, for your response. Of course, I agree and support this all that has been said is unquestionably how this government has taken and taken significant care of the defence population and solved the many difficulties they face daily, it has also shown a number of concrete measures taken and when it comes to the Homeland War and Elevity and when it comes to the rights of Croatian defenders and members of their families. Of course, I thank you for this, but at the same time I appeal to the extra step, since the additional engagement is a fact, and you have pointed out yourself that these veteran centres themselves are with an adequate structure and organisation and professional management of the same quality solution for complex problems facing the defence population. So of course I believe and you are in the interest of putting into office and opening these veteran centres necessarily do it as soon as possible and I am convinced that it will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58551	29th question will be asked by a respected representative of Jurič Martinc's tourism and sports minister, Nikola Brnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58552	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Minister Mrs. Brnjak. So all of us are looking forward to a successful tourist season, this must have been preceded by good preparations from those who have made themselves catering and tourist workers, but it should be said that the government of the Republic of Croatia, which has previously stood up for the preservation of jobs, has helped entrepreneurs of the private and Croatian workers. In fact, about 700,000 workers were financed and paid thanks to government support, 120,000 employers also benefited and supported whether they were exempt from payment of contributions or payment of fixed costs, reduced tourist membership fees, tourist fees expected to be satisfied at a level of 60 to 70% record 2019. Now we see that it is almost 80% of that year in 2019, and some figures are even far better than that reference year. In fact, over 13% and 13% we have higher values of fiscalised accounts in July and August, but we want this tourist season to last as long as possible and my question to you, how will tourist movements be affected by the fact that we are now on a map of the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control among the red, red and regional countries?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58553	Minister Nikola Brnjak's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58554	Thank you very much, Vice President. I thank you for your question. So despite the fact that we were on the list of red countries or regions on the ICDC map, this did not affect the tourist flows and the tourist traffic we see from the month of September when we recorded much more tourist traffic than the record 2019. When we look at the tourist flows so far, we have mentioned ourselves with a smaller number of arrivals of a larger number of overnight stays or more of the values of fiscalised accounts, as Minister Maric mentioned today and we can be quite satisfied with the results precisely because the value of the fiscalized accounts themselves from the beginning of the year so here to this day is more than 87% of the total value of 2019. For July and August, it means some 13% higher value of fiscalised accounts that is exactly the direction we are going, the direction of sustainable tourism development, and that is what will show us, therefore, the new development of a sustainable tourism strategy by 2030. As you said, the preparations themselves were comprehensive and at the end of last year we started in the government with preparations for this tourist year in such a way that we set up a advice for tourism in which we included all stakeholders from the tourism sector and together with their cooperation and with good preparation we can also be grateful for such good tourist results. Also, of course, with well-balanced measures of the headquarters itself, which proved to be exceptional, good, good measures that they have received that we also have such good tourist results. This is also your question with Covid's own confirmations, so Covid's confirmations allowed us to know exactly how tourists themselves are returning to their own destinations or their own homes, and in this way we have prepared ourselves through 350 checkpoints across the coast and on the continent, where additional tests can be carried out, and the Ministry of Tourism and Sports has set aside around 20 million kunas for additional subsidized tests and thus we have prepared ourselves and enabled our tourists to return to their destinations as easily as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58555	Honorable representative of Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58556	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, we know very well that smart investment in tourism invests in the entire economy. Namely, tourism with related activities such as transport, trade, agriculture, food industry, construction and similar activities account for almost 24% of our Croatian GDP. And that is why it is very important to invest in tourism in order for the quality of our citizens to be as good as possible, and we also know that tourism is a great promoter of all our products, so it can affect other branches. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58557	The next issue will be asked by respected representative Majda Buric, EU Regional Development and Fund Minister Natasi Tramišak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58558	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, respected ministers and ministers, colleagues and colleagues, respected Minister Tramišak, therefore, in the past term of the government from 2016 to 2020, significant steps have been made to develop and, evenly develop regional development and only through the national programmes, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has provided 2 billion kuna, which is 10 times more than during the previous SDP government. I also dare to say that the even development of all Croatian parts, and especially the assisted and mountainous mountainous areas by 2015, was a dead letter on paper and even worse than that, because they made unfavourable legal proposals that brought them back to an even bigger reverse. Let us only remember the Law on the mountainous mountainous area, which was then reduced to picking berries. From 2016 on, things have changed according to balanced regional development, and we have visible results today, but also everything that needs to be achieved to make life better and better in Lika and Gorski Kotar and Dalmatia Zagora and other Croatian regions. So I ask Minister Tramišak what's been done and what else is planned? A completely new attitude towards generally all assisted areas in the Republic of Croatia has also been developed, so I ask you to explain to us what we can expect in the new programming period Will we have specialized calls for mountainous mountainous and assisted areas? [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58559	Thank you. Here's the minister's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58560	Dear parliamentary MPs, a very important topic which today has been several times through the enquiries of parliamentary representatives and our answers, which is evenly regional development of the Republic of Croatia, strengthening capacity and roles and local and regional self-government precisely in the context of strengthening all parts of the Republic of Croatia in some equal status. What is important to mention, therefore, is that this normative activity in order to highlight the needs of both assisted areas and mountainous mountainous areas, as we call them with developmental particularities, but also our islands were done in the previous term of this government, so in 2019, the Law on mountainous mountain areas, the Law on assisted areas, and this year we changed the Law on Islands in June. This is why, as well as the need for not only the government budget funds used for specific actions and programmes to come to these areas, we have prepared a specific operational programme for better and better quality use and EU funds in this direction in the new programming period. It is therefore a newspaper compared to the period 2014-2020, an integrated territorial programme which, with the resources available for all parts of the Republic of Croatia from the National Recovery and Resistance Plan of €6.3 billion, has created a new operational programme for assisted areas, primarily mountainous mountain areas, islands and parts to strengthen the capacity and role of cities as major urban centres. About 10 billion kuna in this programme will be intended precisely for these less developed parts of Croatia, you mentioned both Gorski Kotar and Banovina and Dalmatia Zagora, but also for all other assisted areas of the Republic of Croatia through naturally specially specialized calls. However, I would certainly point out here that there will be opportunities and investments in a sustainable regional economy, especially this smart green and digital transition, but also certain investments in social care, protection, education, so all that is needed in certain parts of the Republic of Croatia, which are still below the average developed quality and better standard for citizens. So parallel and investment through municipalities, cities of the public sector, but also new opportunities for investments in small and medium-sized enterprises and economies in these parts of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58561	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58562	The Honorable President of HS. I thank Minister Tramišak, I am pleased with the answer. I am also pleased that you mentioned just 10 billion kunas planned, that is what we had the opportunity to hear in Knin in the speech of Prime Minister Plenkovic. I am pleased that so many resources are planned for assisted areas, and so what I must especially emphasise is that it is certainly a great incentive and a great remnant and survival and development of all less developed areas in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58563	Now it is the 31st question, MP Kreso Beljak asks Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58564	Thank you very much. Dear Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, I have a question for you. Are you familiar with the information confirmed from several sources and from my personal conversation with witnesses of the events that your practically closest associate Mr. Jandrokovic allegedly committed two serious crimes for which prison sentences were otherwise intended? On August 5th, one of the usual HDZ sympathisers and voters, however, is probably the former, asked one of their mutual acquaintances to give him the number of Mr. Jandrokovic whom the man sympathises and values immensely, and with the aim of calling him to personally congratulate him on the holiday of the Day of Victory and Homeland Gratitude for being given to him by the gentleman in his best interest. After he called him and managed to win, Mr. Jandrokovic poured him with the most vulgar insults and immediately hung up on him. It is not a crime, though, but it may be what followed. The next day, your sympathiser and voter received a call from the police for an informed interview in the capacity of the suspect in the crime of a threat from the article. 139. Penalty law. During an informative conversation which, as a tourist worker, lost time and material benefit, the whole event occurred in the peak of the tourist season, that we are not talking about the stress suffered, he learned that the application came from Zagreb and that Mr Jandroković or someone on his orders had justifiable suspicion that Mr Jandrokovic committed two crimes and that the criminal act of false reporting of a criminal offence was an article. 304. Criminal law and criminal offence of abuse of the position and authority of the Member State. 291. The Penal Code because it is obvious that PP Hvar’s spot reaction could not have gone without a multi-level intervention.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58565	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58566	Your Honor, Mr. Whitey. I don't know. I don't know what kind of question this is for the current clock, but you have a President of the Parliament here, so he'll probably tell you if it has anything to do with him. Did you say this at the end of the PP Hvar I understood well? I don't even know anything about this Hvar thing, it's all about Hvar, the Supreme Court, and now I don't think this is as bright as it is. I don't know. I don't know how creative I am. I can only talk to the public about other meetings and other topics, but I won't. Is that fair? Well, unlike you, I'm okay, I think that's good, and the HSS will find the right center eventually. Isn't that right, Mariana?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58567	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58568	I don't know how you thought it was unlike me that you were okay. You think I'm not okay? I'm very okay, of course, for health and satisfaction, but I didn't expect you to know if I doubt they've informed you. You're not familiar with the details, but I am, so I'll tell you the details now. So, Mr. Jandrokovic's damaged person called Mr. Njonja naively thinking that Mr. Jandrokovic's nickname is likable, without any intention of insulting him in this way. After all, a good part of Mr. Jandrokovic's media thus refers to the texts, and it could never have been thought that Mr. Jandrokovic considered it an insult, let alone a threat to him or a criminal act of threat. I will visit you, Mr Plenkovic, that state institutions often do not respond at all to serious reports of threats, such as abused women, which unfortunately knows how to culminate even in murders, and with such banal cases they are able to deal with. Many politicians receive serious threats to which institutions you are partly superior in general are either weak or in no way responding. One of the last examples was a really frightening threat to the representatives of Grmoja and Petrovo to what you personally responded to Mr. Plenkovic, I will quote you "I will be able to get such threats on a daily, weekly basis so I am not telling anyone but you get used to dealing with it, and they are crying," those are your words. So, I support you, you don't personally consider nicknames a threat, it's known that you have a nickname, too, it's known that half of the state calls me Pajser, it's known that most politicians have some nicknames and no one, but nobody including me and you doesn't consider it a threat except Mr. Jandrokovic. Mr. Jandrokovic already has a lot of, quite a lot of privileges, does he do that banal thing? Which a simple nickname indeed is. [[Intruder President: Thank you, colleague Beljak.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58569	Comrade Whiteman, thank you. Time's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58570	One more sentence.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58571	Thank you very much, this has been very correct of you as colleagues. that in this way they use this topic to popularize this, this ugly name that doesn't call me my friends and acquaintances, but those who don't love me. [[But you're offended again.]] I thank you very much for that, and I have nothing more to say to you. Thank you very much. Have a seat. Let's move on. It is now up to counterpart Štromar, who will ask the question of the Minister of Spatial Planning, Construction and State Property, Darko Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58573	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister, I have a question for Minister Horvat. I am extremely pleased that our citizens will again be able to report for the subsidisation of their houses' energy restorations, their families' homes. The announcement was, we know last time there was a big, big rush, there was money not enough, people prepared their paperwork and now I'm only interested in three things. The first thing when the competition will open, the second until when the citizens will have time to submit the documentation and request and the third thing will it be worth the documentation that was previously prepared and could not be used because we couldn't apply for some things or were we below the line or was there a problem in the typing itself whether we would come as the fastest finger in line or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58574	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58575	Thank you, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear President of the Croatian Government, honourable parliamentary representative, that on 14 October we will open the possibility and begin to receive applications by electronic means and for this contest we have prepared 300 million kunas. So, this is continuity, and I don't hide that we have been in several talks so far, and I've confirmed that we have reached a high dose of consensus, so all of those competitions that are good competitions, which have been held at the ministry and so far become continuity and are going on as well as competitions related to subsidisation of loans to young families whose first real estate is and are gaining a roof over their heads, as well as competitions for energy restoration not only of family houses but also of multiple buildings, public buildings and these first 300 million is actually the replacement of a single airspace because you know very well that in 2020 this programme is over. With the Government's decision, we extended it to 2021 to the moment until the competitions that will be financed by the National Recovery and Resistance Programme of billions and 300 million kunas of these grants end in the investments of our citizens related to energy efficiency. October 14th leaves at 9 p.m. upon receipt of applications, by electronic means. Since the competition will be modified, and I think this earthquake has taught us a lot, so one additional component will certainly be implemented in the competition itself, we will no longer renovate those objects that are anti-quake or staticly not secure and strengthened because this energy envelope on such objects creates additional force that can also cause additional damage to future earthquakes. All those documents, for example. The energy certificate that has been submitted in the previous tenders will not be sought again or we will use the same for the competition in question, but the consumers and all that is necessary in order to decide which resources we are helping the citizens of the Republic of Croatia with intensities, this will have to be delivered new. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58576	There you go. There you go. There you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58577	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. I am extremely pleased with the answer, especially with the certificate that was then made will not be needed again because it costs several thousand kunas. And this is for consumers, of course, that they have to be fresher and that ultimately doesn't cost anything to the one who reports, and prices are a little different, so they should be new consumers. Here I hope that citizens will make good use of the quality of these funds and that they will have to pay less for energy from their home budgets, from their pockets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58578	Let's now go to 33 questions, Rade Simičević's representative will be asked by Minister of Science and Education Radovan Fuchs.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58579	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Croatian Prime Ministers, Ministers and Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, I wish you a lot of success in your work and God help us in our efforts to make our country even better. Dear Ministers Fuchs has started a new school and teaching year and I want all stakeholders of the educational and educational process for students, teachers, parents, teachers, non-teachers, directors and directors full success in the work, and your co-workers and you can achieve all your planned activities. I also look forward to your decision that students go to school because school is the only place where students feel good, where they achieve their results and where they actually achieve a certain level of socialization. I hope the Crown of the Virus won't interfere with our students and teachers in their work. Reforms in education and education are necessary and you have my support in all the things you intend to do. Building new schools and staying all day will provide huge opportunities for our teachers and students and support the introduction, I support the introduction of national exams in the 5th and 8th classes, so let's see what the problems are and how we will remove them. My question to you, and it's about the illogicality of tracking and grading students in primary and secondary schools because we've witnessed that we have unrealistic grades, that we have over 90% of students who have been through with excellent and very good success and that They don't like students or parents or teachers, and please don't. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] What do you think you're gonna do to get rid of it? [[Agreement: Thank you, fellow Shimičević.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58580	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58581	Mr. President-in-Office of the HS, Prime Minister, distinguished MPs and MPs, everything you've said, Mr. Representative, is correct. We're trying to maintain the system, as far as possible, under control in these pandemic times. I think we did it well last year, but now that I don't repeat what you said, I'm going to answer your question. Yes, the flood of honours and grading in our schools is not just something that bothers the Croatian education system. With this, some other countries are struggling, and I know that colleagues mention how to find the best way to evaluate students and how to enable everyone to type in what they are most capable of. We have had and we still have too many students with excellent averages, which in particular creates a problem when moving to high school, or vocational school, but first of all high school and this upcoming trend started somewhere in 2013, '14. In order to experience its peak in 2019, this is the famous year when we had Covid's first appearance, and this is also the longest strike of educators, and I guess that's exactly the same year that might have been under-estimated or perhaps, for that reason, apologized to the students who certainly suffered in their education at the time. Now we're on a downward path, we haven't reached the level of 2014, but we're not going to reach any levels, but we're going to work on changing the evaluation system. This will definitely contribute to this, all-day teaching, when it is introduced in 2027, or in the 1930s. Longest. More time to work with students, better evaluation, more relaxed approach to knowledge-finding, but also a whole series of other elements, and we are just in the phase of preparing a high-level entry regulation that will also contribute to the same way that the evaluation is not exclusively related to the average of 5.0 or the highest possible average. But there is a whole, very lot of things in the evaluation that you have to change and make up that it would, indeed, reflect the true knowledge of students, who also believe in students, but also parents, have confidence in the education system, that their student is best rated, evaluated and recommended to continue schooling in that segment where he can take on the best results.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58582	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58583	Here's my thanks to the Minister for the answer. I hope that we from the Recovery and Resistance Fund will take away the money offered to us and build schools so that our students can go on one shift. I believe that the enthusiasm of educators is what we must greatly appreciate, and when new schools are done, then we will really have the opportunity to stay in schools all day long, and thus also the possibility of better education and education. We have very good conditions now, but if we make these schools out of the money offered to us, we must not miss that opportunity, then we will indeed achieve that Croatia will rightly be called the land of knowledge and that we will sell knowledge, not our properties, islands, seas and all that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58584	Let's move on. It is now up to representative Mato Frankovic, who is asking the question of the Minister of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, Oleg Butkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58585	I thank the esteemed president of HS, the respected Croatian government president, respected ministers and ministers. I'm going to ask Minister Oleg Butkovic, Mr. Minister, in recent years we have witnessed a large investment cycle aimed at improving port infrastructure. I would like to ask you the information at which stage the projects are listed and can we expect to continue investment in port infrastructure? Here I especially think of the infrastructure related to the Dubrovnik area, i.e. Batahovina and the fishing port in Sustepan, projects that are in the phase of the construction permit, whose realisation directly affects raising the quality of life of the citizens of the city of Dubrovnik, but also the quality of the tourist services provided in the city of Dubrovnik. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58586	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58587	Thank you very much, Mr. President HS, Mr. Representative. In this current operational programme, and also recently large investments are indeed major investments in port infrastructure. At present, somewhere around 2 billion kunas we invest in the reconstruction of ports, small ports, large ports, the protection of aquariums, harbors and the fact that never, like now, in these last 4-5 years has invested in ports. We are a maritime country, a country facing the sea, and it is good that such investments exist. When we talk about European funds and the Operational Programme Competitiveness and Cohesion which has actually given us the greatest opportunity to invest in such and similar investments in port infrastructure, 23 projects have been agreed. Some more will be agreed next time, but we will close this financial perspective and Dubrovnik-Neretva County is the most successful by the number of projects by number and by the amount of investment in port infrastructure. Some of these projects on the Croatian coast that have been agreed and completed, here we have recently opened the port Cres, the port of Tkon, the Puntin on Korčula, and of course all these other projects that we agreed on go successfully to their end a few years ago. As far as the projects you have set for the City of Dubrovnik are concerned, it is a fishing port of Sustjepan, which is together with the Ministry of Agriculture, we have prepared it since this project is the Ministry of Agriculture and will be financed from their fund and of course there is Minister Vukkovic, who is also a witness and, of course, the Batakovina project for which European funds will also be signed. In fact, we continue to invest in port infrastructure, and what's good is that in the next financial perspective, there will be an opportunity to finance such projects that are in terms of island integration, the protection of aquariums and, of course, every coastal site on the island, whether on the coast with such investments other than basic functions, which is the protection of aquariums and the safety of boats in port, we actually change the face and face of any such place. In that sense, I'm glad these investments are moving on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58588	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58589	I thank Mr. Minister, I am pleased with your response. It is crucial to continue the investment cycle in port infrastructure, it connects, connects cities directly with their islands, connects our... islands and allows people to stay on the island and normal lifestyle and communication with the mainland, it is crucial. However, a further continuation of infrastructure development is crucial towards the tourism direction. So, today here in Luke Dubrovnik has sailed the largest in Dubrovnik's history has sailed on today Norway gateway so thanks to the government of the Republic of Croatia significant funds have been invested in Luke Dubrovnik and I believe that these investments will continue in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58590	It is now up to counterpart Bulj to question Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58591	Thank you very much. In the 5th month of 2018, the Government of the Republic of Croatia made certain conclusions in Split for the Split-Dalmatia County where you said there would be investments and investments of 2 billion kuna. The most significant projects verticalized the circuits on the Dalmatian Zagora highway, Imotski, Sinj, Vrgorca, but here to this day, except for the promise we have, but we know that the Dalmatian Zagora is mainly the Cetina landscape that is larger than Ličko-Senj County is a perspective area because the Splitian swimming pool is overcrowded. In the hinterland can live residents can buy land much cheaper, it is a square 3,000 euros is in Split so it is a perspective area, but without the road of life, the fast road of Kukuzovac-Krizice which is 2016. and the launched feasibility study is a selected variant, there is a minister of traffic who can look into the eyes of the non-triba head has promised that road at that session of the government and we promise every election that road. It is important for the expansion of the Split swimming pool that people can live in this area, not that we have 200 students less enrolled in the first class in Split-Dalmatia County. You've been to Sinj and Alca, you've seen no incident full of life, it's full of... it's all alive. Split is close you know that, you come down often. Interested people, not only Sinja and Cetina region, but Split-Dalmatia County, what about that road of life? 200 million kunas with Cetina giving 40% of the hydropower alone. So does it deserve someone who by the number of residents greater than Licko-Sen County surface than Međimurje County is Bobana and Sanader absolutely not concerned about that area. So here's your answer if we can talk about this road of life.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58592	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58593	Thank you very much, Mr. Bull. I don't know what logic that makes Bobana and Sanader for the Cetina region don't care. Where did you get that? When didn't HDZ have a mayor out of that neighborhood? Is it true? Is Luka Brcic agile, active, helping? Is Shosic helping? Have they fallen from the sky or have they been seized? So, first of all, it doesn't stand there and I have to stand in defense of a very high-quality and truly engaged Split-Dalmatia Mayor Boban and Ante Sanader who was twice the mayor of Split-Dalmatia County. As far as relations with the Cetin region are concerned with relations with the Dalmatian Zagora, as regards relations with the Split-Dalmatia County, so I don't think it should prove how many engagements, how many funds, how many projects, including the transport sector, I don't know if Lolek is there now or not, there you are, he can, but you haven't asked him how much invested in the road, how much invested in the ports, how much invested in the infrastructure, all the projects that were important and which were among other things and the topic of the session in Split. So that's the first thing that doesn't work out if we don't worry about the Split-Dalmatia County. We take care of all the county. Unlike you, you would never dare say how many times Split-Dalmatia County is bigger than another, it is not quite fair to you. You may be Mayor of Sinja, but it is not a good word that you are more important than some other part of Croatia. I also care about this Mr. Daus of Istria County or someone who is here from Krapina-Zagorje County where Mr. Kolar or Sinj from Split-Dalmatia County is from where I come from and we lead such a policy and we will lead it. And as far as the government's special engagement in this term is concerned, we have made it very clear that in this term, I think, too, Minister Tramišak and it is written in the Government's programme, to take care of the project Dalmatia Zagora, Lika, Gorski Kotar and Banovina, these are the parts of Croatia that should be given the hand in terms of economic development, jobs, infrastructure, support that will allow people to stay there or even come to those parts, and I think we can agree on that. What we did for Slavonia since '16. Until '21. It's very good. What we will do for the north of Croatia, here we were the other day in Krapina and Varazdin and Bjelovar and we have established that the North Project is very important. Our friends expect us to invest funds there, and we will allocate more than 15 billion kuna in this financial perspective, and that will stimulate development. The same thing is with the Split-Dalmatia County, and finally Sinja. We understand that both Imotski and Sinj need a faster pro-pulsive connection to the highway to be in a position to realise their priorities in a more efficient and simpler and less demanding and time-consuming way. As for the alka, I've been on an alka, I'll be on an alka, I'm good with alkars, I see you call them HDZ's half-trons, it's not very likable, it's not good, it's not chivalrous. I don't think that the Alkari or the Knight's Alkari society is someone's half-trons, but that they're our friends from the Cetina region that we'll come to regardless of who the mayor is. We've come before, and we'll come after you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58594	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58595	I'm not happy with the answer, I asked about the constant promise of the Prime Minister of the Fast Road Krizice-Kukuzovac, Dicma bypass, where Sinj would become the most prospective area for life and the Splitian swimming pool would basically have space to expand, I didn't get an answer. As far as the Alkars are concerned, I didn't call the Alkars, but my administration... which is exclusively HDZ, strictly obedient to you, the administration that alienated the alka from the people, has found out where she has abused the sonic alka this time. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Alkari, my great-grandfather is 905 years ago. I got an alka, I'm a traditional alkar, I'm an Alkar boy, so I live an alku and the alka will never die when I leave. Alka is part of us and you cannot privatize it which you are in HDZ, it is neither Miro Bulj nor SDP. It is folk, it is not Andrej Plenkovic, nor the administration of the Knights' Alkar society, which is directed by Andrej Plenkovic or anyone in Sinj, nor Miro Bulj, and you want to keep repeating it. You were well-accepted, you saw that it was 5,000 full, you wanted, a crowded racetrack, you wanted to make the city of Sinja a case. There was no incident, 5,000 overcrowded, there was also the president of the assembly, the atmosphere never better, never again dawned, I'm sorry that you didn't take those measures, but then Beros accepted the ones I warned you about, so we wouldn't have any problems that we had problems, so I'm satisfied on that side. But I'm not happy with the Sanader and the Boban that you're defending, who are closing our birthplace, we don't have two pediatricians. There's no irrigated blue field. You didn't make a fast road. The only thing you've done is you want to dump the trash from other local self-governments in Sinj and the Cetinski area. We're not gonna let that happen. Sinj and Cetina region is larger than numerous counties and the entire Zagora and Dalmatia is estranged and centralized, demarcated. It can't work no matter what. That's what I'm telling you as mayor. [[Agreement: Thank you, colleague Bulj]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58596	Thank you very much. We have four more questions. I would just like to remind you, then, after the current morning is over, we will have a report by the MIP and a vote on the confirmation of the mandate of our colleague Krstulovic Opara, so I would just like to ask the clubs, representatives and MPs to, at that point, be in the assembly or in other rooms in order to confirm the mandate of our colleague. Now let's go to Question 36, that's fellow Zurovec who asks the Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Zdravko Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58597	Thank you, Mr. President. Here's the Honorable Minister, we've seen a lot in the media these past few days a story about what's so-called. The silent minuses. Since this is a media novelty, I am interested in what you think as a minister so that this could be reflected in general on economic freedoms within Croatia, on state finances, and in particular on the finances of the 840,000 citizens who are directly affected? In the meantime, I've seen that you've been asked that question again during the day, so I've given myself a little effort, otherwise these interest rates vary a lot across the country. There's no such thing as an exaggeration. We may be the closest place to Slovakia and Germany, so maybe here's to helping, here.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58598	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58599	Thank you very much, Mr. Zurovec, for asking. Here, you have well noticed and heard the question of fellow Lalovac and my answer and his in some way obvious and I think that in some way we have approached this topic and through this high house in a responsible way because it is certain that the topic which is important, which is taken by me, I would say, and which should, of course, take certain activities and measures, whether it concerns not a small number of citizens. We need to be completely honest and clearly to say that a good part of these citizens in some way regretting the level of their receipts these minuses of colloquial or excesses are an integral part of their daily life either within the month when there is some disproportionate or dissimilarness between the inflows of any income, whether we are talking about pay or retirement, whether we are dealing with certain current costs, communals, food costs, diet or something third or simply because there is some way of doing this already have a longer number of times. As I answered the last question, I will answer it now. The purpose of the Consumer Credit Act was to introduce these two institutes in the same way as the so-called Consumer Credit Act. the permitted overrun puts as predominant, as a fundamental, so to speak, a product or service which is much better, clearer and more transparent and banks there also have certain obligations towards consumers that are much stronger than in terms of the Institute of Quiet Overruns which, I explained, our visions and understandings why they occurred when including these fees for keeping the current account of the calculation of the effective interest rate of the bank somehow slipped towards that so-called. The silent overrun and the fact that today is practically the only way to cross over. I think in these steps that we're going to take over the period ahead of us, I think we should return first and foremost as dominant and as a fundamental form of so-called. Allowed overruns, but also to make sure that in no way does not come, I think that Lalovac very well apostrophysed it so that there is no situation for citizens to get even more into trouble with the inability to return these so-called. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: Therefore, the intensity will be that, with better this and clearer this attitude towards consumers, especially taking into account, of course, the most social sensitivity of consumer protection and that if someone is outside of perhaps certain frameworks that are envisaged and that, in terms of some broader images of financial stability of this, they may potentially compromise that same financial stability, that an adequate time to settle certain debts, but at the same time that the Institute as such continues to exist because I will repeat it again is not a small number of citizens and a good part of them, in fact, with these excesses, we unfortunately have to accept it as a fact at this point is alive or part of their daily lives. So, in any case, thank you for the question, too, because the topic which has been, of course, updated significantly requires us to say what we said quickly, but not a quick solution, because a quick solution can sometimes, at first glance, sound or mean or look like good, and ultimately reflects negatively on citizens with the lowest incomes that these excesses may be in some way the most important. So also this way messages to them that in terms of continuing this institute they do not have to be concerned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58600	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58601	So I thank you for the reference, although we could probably spend more time on it. But I think that we should point out to the general public this more important role, which unfortunately may not have that much direct connection to you, which is basically the role of the CNB. In fact, an interesting piece of information from the media says that the CNB does not play a role in preventing the unreasonable business practice of companies in the real sector, and we can see in the media that it is practically there to say and interfere in some economic freedoms of our citizens. Also, by digging up this information, I noticed that banks sold about 40 billion kunas, so on. Bad credits, and everything regulated by the CNB. Now, this CNB was, uh, overseeing these loans, during these loans and after giving those loans, and I don't see anyone here calling out of course the CNB. And now we're talking about 840,000 citizens who you've nicely apostrophe that are really in a pretty bad situation, and on the other hand we haven't mentioned once, here's the first time you've mentioned that so-called. transparency of banks. We, even if we have maybe mobile banking or some other way of reporting from the bank, think we should definitely put that on and, of course, regulate that part so that you know next to the interest that you have the interest. Whether it's 1% a month, whether it's 12% a year and what it's going to be. In principle, given these 40 billion kunas, we can see that the CNB really is one proven bad regulator, and it wouldn't be bad to see what kind of regulations they were in 2018, when suddenly it started to increase that silently, these silent minuses and such interest. On the other hand, you, the Minister of Finance, have a lot of work to do, you can't solve everything, but I'd like you to concentrate on at least two things that are really decisive, and I think this is really decisive and even this one through the assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58602	Let's go to 37 questions, MP Krunoslav Katičić asked him by the minister of labour, pension system, family and social policy, Josip Aladrovic. Here you go. Comrade Zurovec, please turn off, thank you. You can do it to Katičić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58603	Thank you very much. So, the Honorable President of the Assembly, Prime Minister with ministers and ministers, colleagues and colleagues, I would like to point out how Minister Josip Aladrovic was originally told. So right after these devastating earthquakes in Sisak-Moslavina, Karlovac and Zagreb County, your ministry, where you are at the head of the work, pension system, family and social policies through HZZ, has changed the conditions for obtaining support for the preservation of jobs. Therefore, specific measures in this area are in place to preserve jobs with easier special conditions independent of reducing the scope of those measures in other areas of the Republic of Croatia. I think we can all agree that, that these areas deserve our special care and deserve our solidarity. Therefore, because of the citizens living on that part, I ask the detailed response that measures have taken place, when did your ministry launch an earthquake in affected areas to preserve jobs, and if you already have some results, what are your indications? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58604	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58605	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, Honored Representative Katičić, on your question that you have well diagnosed that, immediately after this unfortunate event, we have updated the measures to preserve jobs because at that moment we have estimated that it is necessary to keep economic life for a short period of time, and during a medium and long period of time revitalised in an earthquake-affected area. That is why, of course, the Government of the Republic of Croatia's initiative, but also through the Governing Council of the HZZ, the conditions have been changed so that all entrepreneurs in the Sisak-Moslavina County area, but also other parts of the edged, edged parts of other districts that were injured in the earthquake, could use these measures regardless of their lack of falling income at that time. Therefore, there was a condition or condition only that their facilities, equipment had been damaged or that there had been another accident in their performance. In this way we invested more than 150 million kuna in this area in the preservation of jobs, more than 18,000 employees are thus covered by nearly 5,000 different employers. In this way, we have preserved jobs, but on the other hand, through other measures of the government, we have encouraged economic activity, regardless of the objective difficulties in the process itself. When we look at today's data and compare it to an approximate period before the earthquake we can see that we have an increase in the number of insurance companies in that area, that an increased number of employees are working and that's what can make us happy from the context of these measures. On the other hand, when we talk about a portfolio that is within the work, pension system, family and social policy, or HZZ, an additional initiative that came from the leaders, local city leaders and municipalities was to apply public works measures. In this way, we employed just over 460 people in the first wave and secured 19 million kuna, and in the second wave that we presented about a month ago we provided an additional little more than 20 million kuna for a little over 500 people, we expect 510 employees who are working precisely to eliminate the effects of the earthquake and work on all those jobs needed by local units to get back to normal conditions as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58606	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58607	Here, thank you Minister for your reply. I think this time, which you have now detailed is the right and excellent way for all business entities in these areas. As I have initially said and I repeat, I think it is necessary to maintain these measures as long as possible because in its scope they are using a number of business entities, in this way within the framework and with other measures it is also working on revitalising and restoring the area that is so close to Zagreb, and in some ways it is lagging behind in that part, so that these measures will further strengthen particularly in the area of Sisak-Moslavina activity, business activities and these other revitalising processes that are under way. Thank you again for your response.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58608	Let's move on, there's now a respected colleague, Petir, who is asking the question of the Minister of Agriculture, Maria Vukkovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58609	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Prime Minister, ma'am. Minister. Due to the record tourist season, demand for domestic food has increased, on the other hand climate change is taking its toll, on the one hand colds, beatings, and then droughts, extreme heats, reduced birth and yields in Croatia. If we add to this the situation on the global stage that has a significant impact on the market itself, and here I mean first of all the increase in energy prices, but also on the collection of raw materials, especially grains that have grown by 27% and livestock food by 31%, of course all this has an impact on the increase in food prices. According to some of the data I have in this period, the increase is as high as 3.4% compared to last year's observed period. Given that food is a significant part, a large part of the consumer basket of citizens are of course challenging, citizens are concerned about the possible announcements of food price purchases. I'm curious what the government of the Republic of Croatia is actually taking on the issue of stabilising food prices, increasing the purchase of domestic products, reducing imports, but also helping Croatian agricultural producers cope with all these challenges that are ahead of them as easily as possible?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58610	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58611	Your Honor, ma'am. Petir, I thank you for asking. Yes, inflation happening around the world probably has its first take-off in this height in the last 10 years and it has not, according to all the macro economists in view of the events in the world was unexpected, primarily as a monetary, monetary phenomenon given the enormous fiscal expansion that was necessary as a radical and rapid response in the world and the EU and Croatia to ensure employment. Inflation was not unexpected and price developments in Croatia are also within those frameworks that occur, within the EU frameworks. However, food prices do affect the life of an average Croat more significantly than other movements, as you yourself have said, of a share in a consumer basket that is 26-27% somewhere and should be said it is lower than it was 4-5 years ago, which is also a positive impact of the government's measures on the life and standard of Croatian citizens whose salaries have increased by slightly more than 1.120 kuna over the past few years, which is almost 20%, and these are the best responses of the Croatian government. However, in the context of such a price movement, it is necessary to highlight the situation of livestock farming, especially since Croatian cattle farmers are exposed to very high prices of livestock. As you said, inflation is primarily caused by external movements, but it is passed on to our small and open economy. In the past more than a year, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Government of the Republic of Croatia has significantly helped Croatian farmers, first of all, with the most recent measures to ensure employment and liquidity at government level, and then with specific measures within the Ministry of Agriculture that intervened 20 times, were part of such interventions from the state budget, in part after successful negotiations with the European Commission, of which half of the reactions were related to the Croatian livestock sector. At this point, we have secured or negotiated after 5 rounds with the European Commission a change of 14 animal welfare which should result in a significantly fairer remuneration for our cattlemen for over the standards they provide in their care. We have also been able to introduce a new measure that refers to the application of static fertilisers that will not serve exclusively cattlemen, but will serve the most cattlemen. We also form specific assistance programmes in line with the possibilities from the state budget, so it is the first to meet with the President of the Government, which is intended for the Croatian dairy sector already in electronic consultation. What they can confirm is that they are all affected in terms of price developments, especially pig farming, dairy but not limited to these sectors alone. As for the movement of imports, exports, external trade balances, vulnerabilities that we have all heard a lot about and which has been true in the past few years, here according to the latest data from the DZS continued the growth of exports of Croatian agricultural and food products at a rate faster than the is the growth of imports so that it goes in the right direction. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58612	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58613	Thank you very much, Minister, for your response and for all these measures that are being taken and planned to help the agriculture sector, but also for stabilising prices for the protection of the interests of our citizens and consumers. I must say that the high expectations of the meeting you held together with the prime minister and the entire livestock sector are indeed in great need. I would also like to address some suggestions for the future here because it seems to me that it is very important to think strategically, and you yourself said that inflation was not unexpected. Therefore, I would like to call for closer cooperation and other restaurants with the Ministry of Agriculture, in particular, goods reserves that should be planned to buy domestic agricultural products, which, above all, means grains that we do not want to sell or export our cereals somewhere outside, and then we have to import them at 30% higher prices. Indeed, the sector is full of challenges and it has been difficult for farmers, however much effort has been made in this regard. One big pain that bothers them, and you know it because we've been communicating about it is a matter of huge damage that savages do to crops and plantations. The Committee on Agriculture addressed this problem towards you and the Croatian Hunting Union, according to what farmers are signalling it is indeed a burning issue that is as big as a house for them and here we ask you for cooperation to minimise this problem together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58614	Thank you, too. And we are going to the 39th issue of Agent Ante Bacic is being asked by the Minister of Justice and Administration Ivan Malenica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58615	Thank you, esteemed president of HS. Your Honor, Prime Minister, Minister. My question, as the president has mentioned, is for Minister Malenica. Digital Croatia is one of the most important backbones of this government's programme as we have repeatedly communicated and emphasized, your ministry, the Ministry of Justice and Administration has just developed a new Office Business Regulation that introduces the digital first rule and dictal only in the communication of the body of state administration. The documents themselves will be accepted from now on, processed and stored digitally, and here are the amendments to these two laws, which are waiting for us after the Current Hour, which is the Law on Administrative Disputes and the Law on Administrative Procedures, which are now allowing electronic communication in the administrative procedures themselves. Ministers, I would like to know what these changes will bring if you can point out in short lines for our citizens, and especially for our entrepreneurs, and how will ultimately make it easier for us to do the same thing, but normal and life? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58616	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58617	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear President of HS, Croatian Prime Minister. You have so well pointed out one of the priorities of this government which is clearly highlighted and in the Government's programme for this mandate is the digitisation of public administration. In this direction goes the office business regulation that took effect in July of this year where the government made an additional step in digitising public administration primarily through the principle of digital first digital alone. What is this regulation making? So, as you pointed out, all public legal authorities are obliged to communicate with citizens, with parties, with legal persons with public authority, with other legal entities, primarily by electronic means. We also digitized the office business processes, so where public authorities might not see what citizens should do, digitise or archive all documents and all processes within the public administration itself. We also prescribed the obligation to use digital signatures and digital stamps. All office business information systems used within the public authorities should be adapted to this Regulation by 2023. that is, on 1 January when all public authorities will be associated and exchanged. In addition, we also proposed amendments to the Law on General Administrative Procedure and the Law on Administrative Disputes where these two proceedings, one court, and one administrative or administrative procedure of the public legal authority are further digitised. Therefore, this is the result of systematic monitoring and access to the digitalisation process of the public administration where the parties will also be able to communicate with the public body digitally, so this communication will also go in the opposite direction. Of course, there is a part of the citizens, part of the parties that do not have access to digital technologies, for them, and regardless of these amendments to the Law on Administrative Procedure and the Law on Administrative Disputes will allow communication with the public body. So we also digitise public administration, digitise judicial oversight of public administration, and also through the National Resistance and Recovery Plan, and also continue to work on the digitisation of public administration through the Multi-annual Financial Framework. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58618	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58619	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, thank you for your response, absolute support to both you and the ministry in this direction of digitization. We know what digitisation also means in this budget period, but also in the European Commission's programme itself. I am glad that we adopt the principles of this and our ministries, I believe that this direction will be in all future reforms and in all future changes to any regulations and laws and other ministries normally all in order to facilitate and we cannot forget this when full digitisation is put in place in the right way, not only will it speed up the processes for our citizens but also our entrepreneurs, but I also believe that there will also be a major and significant reduction in costs. So here's the full support and let's do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58620	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs of the current morning are finished with this. I owe it to Article 144. Rules of Procedure to inform you that, in this term, a total of 439 parliamentary questions have been raised for now, of which 386 have been answered. The Government or individual members of the Government have not yet delivered their response within the prescribed deadline of 41 parliamentary questions and I ask them to answer these questions in accordance with the deadlines set. Thank you all for participating in the current morning. We are now moving on to the Mandate-Immunity Commission's report and voting after which we will have a 15-minute break and will continue with the club's position. I call on a colleague now, Jankovic, to give a report to the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the suspension of the term of office of MP Andra Krstulovic Opara and to suspend the conduct of the deputy deputy representative, Danica Baricevic. Please, my colleague, be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58622	Dear Mr. President Mandatno-Immunity Commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 20th session held on 10 September 2021 a written statement by MP Andra Krstulovic Opare on the re-behaving of the parliamentary duties addressed to the President of the Croatian Parliament by act of 7 September 2021. The Commission has established that it is based on Article 14(1) of the basic Regulation. The law on election of MPs in the Croatian Assembly of MPs Andri Krstulović Opari began on 22 July 2020 and on the same day, the deputy deputy MP's office began to act as Danica Baricevic. How Andro Krstulović Opera is in accordance with Article 14(2) and (3). The law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament issued a written statement to the President of the Croatian Parliament within the legal time limit laid down that the conditions laid down by law were met, so the rest of the parliamentary term, Andri Krstulovic Opari, ends 8 days after the day of submission of the application. On the same day, the behaviour of his deputy, Danica Baricevic, ceases. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Law on election of representatives in the Croatian Parliament and Article 116. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament proposes to the Croatian Parliament a decision on the suspension of the term of office of MPs and to suspend the conduct of the deputy deputy representative's office. On September 15th 2021, the standstill of MP Andra Krstulovica Opara ceases. The deputy deputy MP's office stops acting as Danica Baricevic on 15 September 2021.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58623	I thank my colleague Jankovic, so I am voting, in fact opening the debate. Since no one is answering, I'm closing the debate and we're going to vote. I am voting on the motion for a decision to suspend the term of office of representative Andra Krstulovica Opara and to suspend the behaviour of deputy deputy representative Danica Baricevic. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 88 MPs voted, 87 were in favour, 1 abstentioned by error because, then well, we have confirmed, or we have made a decision as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. After we've made this decision, we move on to making an oath of counsel. Article 7 The Rules of Procedure have been established that the President shall read the text of the oath, after which he or she shall call the representatives by name. The appointed representative rises and utters his word, I swear. Now I'm going to read the text of the oath. I swear by my honor that I will exercise my responsibility as a representative in the Croatian Parliament knowingly and responsibly, that in my work I will stick to the Constitution and the law and respect the legal order and that I will stand up for all the progress of the Republic of Croatia. Representative Andro Krstulović Opera.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58624	Dear Mr. President, I swear. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58625	I congratulate the representative on his sworn oath and wish him much success in the conduct of this honorable and responsible duty. Now, as I've announced, we'll take a 15-minute break, and then at 14 hours and 20 minutes, we'll continue with free speeches. A meeting at 14.06 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58626	We will now move to the next point, which is: - Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the confirmation of the decision to grant authorisation for the initiation of the criminal proceedings and the deprivement of freedom and the determination of the investigative prison against Stjepan Kovaca's representatives in the Croatian Assembly Article 27. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall also provide for the application of the immunity of MPs to decide the Mandate-Immunity Commission, with subsequent confirmation of the meeting at the first next session. I ask the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of Mr Robert Jankovic to file a report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58627	Mr. Vice-President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, the Mandate-Immunity Commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 20th session held on 10 September 2021 the request of the State Attorney's Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime No Kr-US-49/2021 of 9 September 2021 by Act A-296/2021 of 9 September 2021 to the President of the Croatian Parliament for the authorisation of the initiation of the criminal proceedings for the deprivement of liberty and the determination of the criminal prison against Stjepan Kovac of MPs in the Croatian Parliament for the reasonable suspicion that he committed a criminal act of trade in influence under Article 255(1). Penalty law. Stjepan Kovač is a representative of the 10th meeting of the Croatian Parliament and on the basis of Article 76. Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 23 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall have immunity until the term of office is terminated and without a decision of the Croatian Parliament shall not be detained or a criminal procedure can be initiated. However, Article 76(5) of Regulation (EU) No 1305/2013 provides that the Commission is to adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 76(2) of Regulation (EU) No 1305/2013. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 27(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. It is prescribed by the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament that if the Croatian Parliament is not together, or if it does not meet the decision on the application for authorisation for the initiation of the criminal proceedings, it shall adopt a Mandate-Immunity Commission by having its decision subsequently confirmed by the Croatian Parliament. Since the Croatian Parliament is not in session because of the summer break, and the Mandate-Immunity Commission is based on Article 76(5) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 27(1) and Article 116 thereof. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, acting unanimously with 7 votes for the decision, shall be approved for the initiation of criminal proceedings against Stjepan Kovac of MPs in the Croatian Parliament at the request of the State Attorney's Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime No. Kr-US-49/2021 of 9 September 2021, sent by the State's Attorney's Office by Act No. A-296/2021 of 9 September 2021 on the grounds of a reasonable suspicion that he committed a crime of trade in influence under Article 295(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Penalty law. In addition, the Mandate-Immunity Commission is based on Article 76(5). This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament unanimously gave the decision to suspend freedom and determine the investigative prison against Stjepan Kovac of MPs in the Croatian Parliament at the request of the State Attorney's Office for the Prevention of Corruption of Organized Crime No. Kr-US-49/2021 of 9 September 2021 sent by the State Attorney's Office by Act No. A-296/2021 of 9 September 2021 on the grounds of reasonable suspicion that he committed a crime of trade in influence under Article 295(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Penalty law. Explanation. The mandate-immunity committee decided to grant authorisation for the initiation of the criminal proceedings and the deprivation of freedom, the establishment of an investigative prison against MPs in the Croatian Assembly of Stjepan Kovaca at the request of the State Attorney's Office as an independent and independent judicial body authorised and obliged to act against the perpetrators of criminal offences and other criminal offences in order to carry out its duties in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58628	I thank the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, I open the debate, no one answers, I conclude the debate. We will vote on this subject, on this point when the conditions are met. This will end with today's work, we will continue tomorrow on Thursday, September 16 at 9:30, the first item will be the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Minimum Salary Act, first reading, P.Z. Number. 170. I want a good night. Session adjourned at 5:16 p.m. Now we're going to the points we predicted for today to work on. Therefore, the Legislative Committee is based on Article 247. The Rules of Procedure proposed that the following two points be held in a unified debate. These are: 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the General Administrative Procedure Act, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 172. – Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Administrative Disputes, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 173. – Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia Do you agree with having a united discussion? Here's everyone agreeing. Therefore, since there are no objections, we will conduct a united debate. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, based on Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the proposing that these legislative proposals be discussed according to an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, and the Committee on Justice. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Minister of Justice and Administration Ivan Malenica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58635	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed MPs and MPs. First of all, thank you for respecting the proposal to have a united debate on these two draft laws. So, administrative procedure and administrative dispute. It is two processes which are inseparably linked and, therefore, through these amendments, it certainly affects the effectiveness and effectiveness of not only the administrative procedure but also the administrative dispute. One of the fundamental legality of administrative law is making decisions quickly, without delay and avoiding unnecessary costs and actions. The Ministry of Justice and Administration has therefore drawn up a proposal to amend and supplement the General Administrative Procedure Act and the Law on Administrative Disputes which further modernise and optimise these procedures. The General Administrative Procedure Act is a general procedural law governing the rules on the basis of which the authorities of the State Administration and other public legal bodies, the bodies of the local self-government unit deal with administrative matters. The current general administrative procedure law came into force on 1 January 2010 and has not changed since then. Although the current General Administrative Procedure Act enables electronic communications between public-law authorities and parties to further regulate the provisions to modernise and speed up the administrative procedure and reduce the costs of the procedure. The draft law amending and supplementing the General Administrative Procedure Act, which is before you, regulates electronic communication between public-law authorities and parties in the administrative procedure, and provides for public-law bodies and parties and other persons involved in the procedure to communicate primarily by electronic means and through a system of state information infrastructure. The rules for the submission of submissions and delivery of acts by electronic means and through information systems are linked to state information infrastructure. Also, this law regulates the content of submissions and solutions, verification of solutions by electronic seal and signature. In order to ensure that reliable and secure electronic communication between parties in the administrative procedure is possible, it is necessary, of course, to identify the participants in the process through the OIB, that the submission and the solution must also contain information on the OIB. The provisions governing the signature by electronic signature and delivery by electronic means have been further developed. The submissions submitted in electronic form with a qualified electronic signature will be deemed to be signed by the government, and the qualified electronic signature shall be uniformly signed on paper, of course. The electronic signature has the same legal effect as the government signature. The use of electronic signatures and stamps in solutions has also been arranged, which has not been arranged so far and has been an obstacle to simplifying and digitising administrative procedures. By entering into force of this law, this legal void that existed in practice will be removed. Furthermore, this legislative proposal requires that the delivery by electronic means into the user database of the information system associated with the state information infrastructure is considered to be a personal delivery. It is writtenly downloaded from the user's certificate box, i.e. by confirmation via the NIAS system, and delivery is deemed to have been made by confirmation of receipt of the written or expiry date of the eighth day from the date on which it was written on the message-receiving server unless a shorter period is laid down by law. On 1 January 2019, a single information system was established to monitor the implementation of the General Administrative Procedure Act, so-called ZUP IT. These amendments prescribe that data on administrative procedures, procedures against the conduct of public-legal authorities and the behaviour of public service providers are provided through the PPP IT system. The Ministry of Justice and Administration shall implement a project to improve the ZUP IT system through which a new functionality will develop to allow all parties in administrative procedures to monitor the status of their cases by delivering in the user compartment. In addition, the General Administrative Procedure Act is governed by the provisions of the State Administration System Act, the Life Partnership Act and the Civil Service Act. Also, the use of new technologies such as e-delivery, e-signature and e-print in the administrative process will significantly speed up and simplify the administrative process and represent greater savings in the long term. As regards the Law on Administrative Dispute, the objective of this law, the objective of these amendments is to ensure, of course, further digitisation of the administrative dispute. The Law itself on Administrative Dispute aims to ensure the legality and judicial protection of the rights and public interests of the parties in the administrative procedure. Therefore, the protection of their interests which may be affected by individual decisions and by the conduct of public-legislative bodies, therefore these amendments and additions to the Law on Administrative Disputes are taxed by persons who are obliged to submit submissions in electronic form through the information system and which are delivered in the same way. The obligation of electronic delivery in administrative disputes shall be laid down for the authorities of the national administrations and other national authorities. Then for the bodies of the unit of local and regional self-government, legal entities having public authority, state attorneys, lawyers, public notaries, court experts, judicial assessors, court interpreters, bankruptcy managers, commissioners, and legal persons, and other parties, if they agree. It shall also introduce the duty to indicate the personal identification number of prosecutors and defendants in the case as a permanent identification code of the person required for electronic communication. The proposed changes also allow for remote and/or individual evidence actions to be held using audio-visual devices. The adoption of these legislative proposals will make a significant reform step in modernising the administrative process and the administrative dispute. It will also ensure faster, cheaper, better quality digital administrative process, and better management of administrative dispute, faster data exchange, greater transparency in the work of the courts themselves. Introductoryly, it's about presenting these laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58636	Thank you very much. We've got more replicas on your exhibit. First of all, he's a respected representative of Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58637	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Ministers all praise these two bill proposals. And normally about the administrative procedure, but also what you finally mentioned about the remote hearings. I hope that these things will be passed on later to both the Penal Law and certain processes that we can certainly speed up and save. I am interested in this confirmation by electronic signature and stamp, in the very explanation it is noted because of the lack of clear rules of the general regulation that this law is passed. I wonder if that means we'll have to or won't have to change and pass the new e-signature bill. We've had some objections about public administration, about space and equipment, so I'm wondering if it's because the ministry is already thinking about hardware but also software infrastructure that's going to be needed for the public administration to handle all of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58638	The Honorable Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58639	Dear MPs, therefore, can point out that through amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act, criminal proceedings will also introduce electronic communication and this digital and modern technology that we are now introducing into the Law on Administrative Disputes. We have already introduced this through the Law of Parley Procedure, because in fact, the pandemic of Covid 19 directed us to actually enable courts when we talk about a litigation procedure to continue with work through a certain institution of remote hearings. So, we will also do this in criminal proceedings through the amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act that we are currently preparing. As far as willingness and public-legal bodies are concerned. So I can point out that public-legal bodies are already ready. In fact, I would point out that, in the general administrative process, public-legal bodies are already implementing the basis of the ZUP IT platform, and by upgrading that platform and this project, citizens will be able to monitor the status of their case before all public-law bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58640	Thank you very much. The next is the replica of the respected representative Blažević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58641	Dear Minister, here's a part you've already answered me and this is about the willingness of the public bodies and I'm sure we've seen that the digitisation processes help the faster process of efficiency, the economics of business, etc. A lot of power is being invested in digitisation and I am now interested in the fact that our citizens accept it. Do you know how many citizens use the e-Citizen system? And when you mentioned this covid situation, did this covid situation increase the number of citizens using the system of e-citizens?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58642	Your Honor, Minister Malenica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58643	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So, according to some information that I have, over a million, it seems to me to be a million and 400,000 citizens in the Republic of Croatia using the system of e-citizens and I believe that here will be a census, and I am also taking the opportunity to invite all citizens to take advantage of that possibility through the E-Citizen system to write down their own household, that in fact this system has shown, therefore, its functionality and its purpose. And I believe that through the Law on General Administrative Procedure, through these amendments and the Law on Administrative Disputes and through the platform and e-communication system, citizens will be enabled to communicate more easily with public-legal bodies, especially as a result of an epidemic of 19 citizens have actually seen everything that the state has done backwards for several years in the field of digitisation. And this is, in fact, a continuation and a large part of the projects that the state is preparing and through the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, the multiannual financial framework is going towards further digitisation, and what is important to citizens, therefore the administrative process, so the procedure where they decide on their rights and obligations, will now be digitised and the citizens will be able to see what is happening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58644	The Republic has a respected representative, Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58645	Thank you. Dear Ministers, in your opinion why the provisions of the ZUP, therefore the General Administrative Procedure Act is not in line with the provisions of the OIB Act adopted in 2008. Therefore, the provisions of the ZUP adopted in 2010 which prescribe the mandatory content of the party's submissions and the provisions on the content of the public legal body act do not require personal identification number. And the OIB bonds are necessarily assigned to the use of the OIB, so on all applications and on all other submissions that communicate with the number users as well as in electronic business itself, so I want to know why we miss them.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58646	Your Honor, Minister Malenica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58647	So as far as your question is concerned, I think the problem was actually that the administrative process was not digitized, no particular information was asked to identify certain citizens within some digital system. So, we had the 2005 Law on electronic documents that did not comply with the General Administrative Procedure Act, and that actual digitisation of the administrative procedure was not possible. And now, through these amendments and additions to the General Administrative Procedure Act, we digitise the general administrative procedure to a full extent, and we use the personal identification number as something that we can identify the party in these procedures. Why this was not adopted in 2010 is difficult for me to comment on at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58648	Dear representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58649	Ministers of Justice and Administration, I can say in principle that I am prepared to support this law, but I cannot commend you for it. So he's not bringing any big news. Electronic communication was provided for earlier in Article 75 of this Act. You're potentially introducing some new functionality, and you haven't touched the essence. In the proposed changes, you have skipped the full Head V which defines the deadlines, or better to say does not define them, and it is precisely the deadlines for public-legislative bodies to be the ones where citizens most see that the public service does not meet their needs. My second reading read reads what was stuck and where it got stuck with the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest. In 2012 the Constitutional Court also instructed that procedural procedural provisions are necessary to work out and come up with the law. However, as of today, so since 2012, here are nearly 10 years of the Commission's decision on conflict of interest, it has been forced to apply the rules of the ZUP accordingly.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58650	Thank you. Your Honor, Minister Malenica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58651	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Oreshkovic, I am pleased that here you support this law. So, it is on the trail of the digitisation of the public administration which is one of the priorities of this government, which is also highlighted in the programme, and here it is highlighted and seen in fact through the proposed amendments and additions of these two laws, but with the Regulation on office operations that entered into force on 2 July this year. And so digitization is something that we'll take care of anyway in the next period. The objective of these amendments was therefore mainly related to the digitisation of the general administrative procedure process, and also to the digitisation of the Law on Administrative Disputes and Digitalisation of the entire administrative court procedure. And I believe that the top will contribute to greater transparency, the functionality of the administrative process itself or the administrative dispute. As regards the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, although this is not the subject of today's two laws, they may point out that according to the legislative plan, the law will be passed on time.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58652	Thank you very much. Time is up, and then we're going to the next replica of the respected MP, Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58653	Dear Minister Malenica, I will discuss the General Administrative Procedure Act. We understand the intensity of this law, it's quite clear. But I'd like to know if the Ministers would like to speak to us publicly in practice. So I'll be very specific. For example, a famous renovation. So, we had the first programme of measures to rebuild the building that the government had brought in October 2020, and it was notally illegal. To play a little game and to make it "as if it had been written by an officer who was still in 89, so she wrote on one four, five pages which all the documents of the citizens had to bring, and the state had all these papers. And then it took the ministry a few months to figure it out, so with the authorities that actually the state already has that data, then now it doesn't have to collect it all. So I'm curious how such illegal regulations that are contrary to the General Administrative Procedure Act can even come before the Government of the Republic of Croatia when we have in Chapter II, point II. The official will, therefore, provide official information on the facts on which the official records are kept by the public legal authority, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58654	Thank you. Your Honor, Minister Malenica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58655	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Therefore, these amendments to the Law on General Administrative Procedure therefore oblige public-legal bodies to communicate digitally, and also through the realisation of this law, will enable all public-legal bodies to be connected to the state information infrastructure, i.e. a colloktually or in more detail, a state collection that connects all state, or public-legal bodies to the state information infrastructure. Therefore, the amendments to the General Administrative Procedure Act will enable what you have stated that all public-legal bodies communicate with each other by electronic means to exchange information with each other and ultimately reduce the duration of administrative procedures, which should certainly facilitate communication with public-law bodies and the exercise of their rights and interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58656	Thank you. Dear Representative Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58657	Dear Minister, if I may say so, I think you've made a little bit of a mistake. I don't think the pay phone without you is yet 100% operational, so the bodies are currently communicating through the old network that calls it, the RKMDTU keybinding means the Republic communication network of the body of the state administration. And about that, that's my question. You stated in the law that you were obliged to store data and that these data would be stored in a certain way. When handing over those data, too. However, you also have data transmissions, or documents via mobile devices. These mobile devices are connected to various cells, so my question is how data protection is foreseen from coastal cells to a network that is then secure and where data can no longer be hacked.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58658	Your Honor, Minister Malenica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58659	Dear Representative, therefore, as far as the technical part is concerned, it will be elaborated by sublegal acts, but I can certainly point out that the security of the entire system will also be taken into account. So, the centre of shared services is one of the strategic projects of the government of the Republic of Croatia. The project foresees, or already operates, a state collection, so that the data exchanged through the general administrative process and the data itself that are archived will go through state information infrastructure. But I say underlegal acts will specify details related to security, but also to the very exchange of data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58660	The Republic has a distinguished representative, Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58661	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Your Honor, Mr. Minister, I just opened my own user box seven. July 2016 opened and the other day I opened it and for this list I saw that there were 97 unread messages. So there's a lot of ministries, FINA, REGOS, CARNET, a lot of things, pay bills. However, while I consider myself relatively and even a very weak IT person, do you intend to carry out, in cooperation with other bodies, a broader action of public education on all the possibilities and potentials of using such a personal mailbox, particularly this amendment to this Law on administrative procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58662	Thank you. Your Honor, Minister Malenica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58663	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Yes, the ministry will certainly educate citizens in certain activities on the use of new technology and within the administrative process itself. So, one part of the citizens certainly has certain information skills and can already establish that communication, and for those who do not have information knowledge have available technology. So they will certainly be provided with a certain education. I would just point out that there is a part of the citizens who are not available modern technology. As before, they will be provided with that classic way of accessing the public-law body, so by mail, directly or verbally on the minutes. So we leave that possibility, but it's certainly our goal to simplify the process and simplify it through this digitization. So the delivery itself of written and communication with public-legal bodies. So there will be an old model and a new model, but I believe that through certain education, citizens will see the benefits of these digital communications and make it possible for them to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58664	Dear representative Zmaic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58665	Thank you. Dear Ministers, these changes and additions to the ZUP aim to speed up administrative procedures through information and communication technology. We in the units of local self-government apply this law in several procedures. In the case of tax solutions, municipal fees, municipal contributions, official relations, etc. So I'm asking you for some examples of increasing the efficiency of administrative procedures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58666	Your Honor, Minister Malenica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58667	Thank you very much, Your Honor. In any event, the amendments to the General Administrative Procedure Act will allow both simplification and acceleration of administrative procedures not only towards citizens who will be able to communicate easily with the public body, whether it is the body of the state administration or JLS, but will also facilitate the work of the public body itself, because it will be connected and connected with other systems and registers currently managed by the State. What I would point out and what will facilitate access to the public legal authority is certainly a delivery, so these amendments to the General Administrative Procedure Act are regulated and delivered by electronic means, and the communication of the parties themselves, so that they do not have to come to the counter, send certain letters to the Public Legal Authority, will already be able to do so by electronic means, and will certainly facilitate the work of the officials themselves who handle the administrative procedure in those cases. What is very important, therefore, is that citizens will be able to see the development of the ZUP IT system, so they will see at which stage their administrative procedure is conducted before the public body and it seems to me a great benefit in this part of the amendments to the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58668	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Thank you. Then I'm opening a debate. Thank you, Minister. On behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club, the first representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic will speak. He's gone, he's losing his right to debate, and then, on behalf of the Most Representatives' Club, he's going to speak to the esteemed representative Marin Miletic. He doesn't have one either, he loses his right to debate, and then he'll speak on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club, respected representative Ruzica Vukovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58669	Dear Vice President HS, respected ministers with a co-worker, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. Therefore, the rapid development of information technologies can greatly facilitate the everyday life of our citizens in terms of saving time, energy, money and the like. The digitisation of public administration contributes to efficiency and simplifies the process of exercising citizens' rights. The most common challenges our administration faces are large amounts of documents, maintenance of large quantities of output devices, planning and reporting, as well as other complex processes that take up extremely much time, money and energy. All this leads to a number of administrative and financial difficulties and makes the public administration a trom and inefficient. This is why the initiative seeks to introduce digitisation in the provisions of the Administrative Procedure Act and the Administrative Dispute Act is commendable. Digitalisation transforms the way public administration connects citizens, data and processes. The processes that take place within the public administration make them faster, more efficient and safer, and also saves both time and space, reduces operational costs, and the likelihood of human error leads to a minimum. The Republic of Croatia aims to develop an information society, as well as the information system of the state administration, so eGovernment, to provide user-oriented electronic public services more precisely, and to actively participate citizens and business entities in the use and development of electronic services. I must say, the grief of knowing that for certain steps, we need more than 10 years. I mean, that's exactly how long it took for us to take this step. The ZUP entered into force on 1 January 2010. A significant progress then made by the new ZUP was the creation of legal assumptions for the use of modern and achievements of information communication technology in administrative action. The ZUP shall contain provisions that allow and encourage digitisation and electronic communication at all stages of the administrative procedure, but certain provisions should nevertheless be amended or supplemented in order to encourage electronic communication between parties and public authorities in administrative procedures. It then allowed the use of new technologies in the interests of the parties and encouraged public authorities to digitise administrative procedures and to use state information infrastructure. Digitalisation also significantly facilitates the work of public officials by liberating them from manual work and simple repetitive tasks. It thus leaves them with more time and energy to devote themselves to helping citizens to their rights. Despite the many advantages of digitisation, however, not all are prone to modernization and digitization. The biggest problem arises among older citizens, but also public administration employees, many are not online educated. Croatia also has a problem with the Internet network where our entire country is not equally covered and often it happens that the Internet signal is weak, it shoots or not at all. It is also necessary to mention border areas, such as BiH or Serbia. In addition to the words of praise for these two amendments and additions, it would take advantage of this moment and suggest the relevant necessity of a few more changes that would certainly be welcome. In particular, speaking of the provisions of the ZUP by analysing the Article. In 42nd conclusion, it would be necessary to introduce a provision within which a party should be informed of the facts, in particular the time limit within which it is necessary to initiate the procedure itself. Many parties complain that no procedure has ever been initiated for their submission, nor have they ever received any response. As regards the above, and on the basis of the right to the availability of information and digitisation of proceedings, the parties shall have the right to know whether or not the procedure has been initiated or has the right to initiate the procedure within 60 days on its request unless it indicates a fact which indicates the possibility of endangering life where that time-limit should be significantly shorter. Then by analysing the article. 85th, which speaks of personal delivery, I suggest that the text be continued in St. 3 in a way that follows the word “signed” continues the text “and such delivery is considered orderly delivery”. We are suggesting all of this because it is a serious problem that citizens often refuse to deliver and many procedures can't begin due to messy delivery, they can't finish, and then the citizens complain, and precisely because of the inability to deliver many of the actions can't be done until the end. It remains unclear since the opening part of the proposed amendments states that all state administration bodies will be connected and will be able to withdraw data. And according to these changes on the general administrative procedure as they go by emergency procedure, it remains unclear when everything can be expected to be connected, will it be the same as just passing the law, or will we have to wait a few years again? I also find it important to ask the question of providing public services in the unique administrative place of the so-called so-called Public Service. One stop shop, we are talking about one of the elements of integrated public governance that focuses on the needs of citizens, on the needs of entrepreneurs, on the needs of other public service users. A unique administrative place may be organised as a point of physical or digital contact and include a smaller or greater number of public services provided to citizens or entrepreneurs, regardless of the jurisdiction or mutual institutional relations of different public administrations. The basic idea is that the user does not need to know or to be burdened with organisation and difficulties in the work of the public administration, it needs to obtain the requested public service quickly, efficiently and quality and public administrations should be organised so that it communicates with the users as easily as possible and in one physical or digital place. The citizens of the Republic of Croatia are waiting for such public administrations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58670	The next club of representatives will be the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Marija Jelkovac will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58671	Thank you very much. Honorable chairman, respected ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues. There are actually two draft laws, one of the amendments and additions to the General Administrative Procedure Act, and the other of amendments to the Law on Administrative Disputes. These are two very important laws, first of all because they govern the general procedural procedure, the ZUP regulates the general procedural rules by which public and other state bodies, local and regional self-government bodies within their own departments solve in administrative matters. And the General Administrative Dispute Act is also important because it regulates the legislative framework on the basis of which judicial proceedings are conducted if dissatisfaction arises between citizens or other legal persons involved in the process of resolution before public or state bodies. What has already been said, what I would stress is that it is really very important that in these circumstances in which we live today, and that we are expected in the future to improve more and more procedures in a way that introduces digitisation, because this primarily leads to efficiency and time saving and our fellow citizens who participate in procedures before state public authorities, but also to the efficiency and energy of the bodies themselves who carry out the procedures themselves and to the acceleration of these procedures in this way. It is certain that this also contributes to the reduction of costs as well as to the parties who and those bodies that carry out the proceedings. What I can say is that we have witnessed in the last few years and that through some regulations we have already introduced a lot through amendments to the law through a mini judicial reform so that this is another step in this regard. What I would point out is that it is very important and necessary to go into these amendments and additions, above all because the current provisions of the existing ZUP do not contain all the details that should be contained in existing norms so that such procedures can be implemented in an adequate manner. In view of the fact that the above information on the OIB was not necessarily listed on the submissions, and in the future it is necessary to implement the procedure in a digital way. It is also important to introduce the amendments introduced by these amendments and the ZUP supplements related to the introduction of a qualified electronic signature that is thus equated with a government signature in order to have the same legal effect as our signature on paper and thus provide the highest level of security of electronic writing and its irrevocability. Other provisions on electronic communication shall also be specified, the submission of submissions by means of an information system and the submission of a certificate of receipt of such a submission into the user's box, also provisions on the forms of notification where a provision is added that provides for the possibility of notifying through the information system, by sending the information to the customer's box of parties or other participants in the process which will, of course, simplify and speed up the process, but also reduce the costs of delivery. The provisions on the delivery by electronic means shall be amended and supplemented by the provisions on the delivery by electronic means, with what is meant to be delivered by electronic mail, governing the delivery of letters to the user's database of the information system connected to the national information infrastructure. Also related to the delivery of letters shall be prescribed when the delivery is deemed to have been made in such a way that there is no dilemma. Some of the provisions of the ZUP are also harmonised, as the Minister himself said, with the State Administration System Act, since we know that we have amended that law and that this was necessary and now has to be harmonised through the ZUP because the Offices of State Administrations in Countys have been abolished as first-degree bodies of the State Administration. It is also in line with the law on the system of state and with the law on, just a moment, with the other laws I am now not sure not to impose the wrong law anymore, but it is important that all the laws that have been passed so far and where it was necessary to comply with the provisions of the ZUP that this is now a harmonisation done. As regards the Law on Administrative Court Procedure, it is also important to align these amendments and additions with, the provisions are also harmonised with the introduction of delivery in electronic form through the information system, which also contributes to reducing the duration of the administrative dispute, and thus to reducing costs. It will also speed up the process, but by law itself and regulations which are the other bodies of state administrations, units of local and regional self-government and legal persons who have public authority, then state attorneys, lawyers, public notaries, court experts, assessors, interpreters, bankruptcy managers and legal persons who become mandatory to use. As we know, the system of justice has so far been improved through legal provisions with certain application of electronic communication so that this will continue to be aimed at even faster and more effective implementation of the disputes themselves. For the implementation of both the proposed law, there is no need to provide additional financial resources in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia, because they are already provided, or for the implementation of the ZUS, one part is provided in the framework of the e-script application system upgrade project co-financed by EU funds in the 85% part through the European Social Fund. And as for reasons of urgency, it is also given by the applicants, and we believe that it is justified because in these conditions of the pandemic in which we live, it is very important that the parties do not have to come daily to initiate procedures in front of the administrative bodies on, in the offices themselves, but will be able to do so in this way, and it is also important that we are also committed through the Croatian Government's strategies and programmes that during the future period, the digitalisation processes will be carried out primarily in all processes. Therefore, the HDZ Club will support both the amendment and the addition of these laws. We believe that they will also contribute to a better administration and a better and more efficient system will be resolved by all, all of those procedures before state and public bodies, but also by disputes before administrative courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58672	The next club of MPs will be the SDP, time will be shared by respected MPs Michel Jaksic and Arsen Bauk. First of all, the respected representative Jaksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58673	Dear Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, good afternoon, nice greeting to everyone. Since we're talking about two, we've made a small inversion, I'll be the first to talk about the Law on Administrative Disputes, and then the ZUP itself will be finished by my colleague, Bauk. The Law on Administrative Disputes is the only law that prescribes this matter. It refers to the judicial protection of parties due to the conduct of public and other bodies in the administrative procedure as a result of the resolution of their rights and obligations. I point out that this is a unique law, unlike the General Administrative Procedure Act. We should stress that ZUP is of paramount importance to all bodies applying administrative procedures in their business, and that body circle is indeed wide. It is the general administrative law applicable to the implementation of the administrative procedure where the special procedure is not otherwise arranged. However, the desire of law enforcement was always to make this law a single law governing administrative procedure. We know that this is not the case and that we still have laws in which the administrative procedure is arranged typical of the procedure. For example, the General Tax Law. I therefore appeal to the applicants to propose amendments to all the laws in which the procedure is governed differently than in the ZUP, both in relation to the administrative procedure and to refer the provisions exclusively to this law. Citizens would then be much simpler because they would not have to pay attention to a whole series of provisions but only to this unique administrative law that contains provisions on administrative action. Respecting that it really is a law that applies the whole circle of public law and other bodies, it must, of course, be clear, reviewed, simple and above all in order to achieve certain rights as quickly as possible at times and to prescribe certain obligations. A clear and precise ZUP will also reduce the application of the Law on Administrative Disputes as a smaller circle of citizens will seek judicial protection from administrative action. For example, the proposed amendments to this law in Article. 6. to which the existing Article is amended. The 50th focussed on the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act. Amendments to this law shall not affect the legality of administrative proceedings or endanger the right of parties to proceedings. What could be a problem is the capacitation of public authorities to fulfil their obligation within the legal deadlines set because in the larger systems of the large ministry, the City of Zagreb is written from the first recipient to the tasked perpetrator and within a few days, which reduces the time limit for timely treatment, but obviously we will all have to adapt to it together. Finally, the deadline of one year granted to legal persons to request access to the electronic communications information system with administrative courts is too long and we suggest that it be reduced to six months. Such a system has already been implemented in the application of the Law on litigation with competent courts and therefore the system is both tested and clear for legal persons with regard to requests and requests for action. This would make us both faster and more economical, and what is most important and even simpler towards our citizens. I'm a colleague of Bauk's.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58674	Here will continue the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58675	Thank you. First of all, I would like to stress that this law is of paramount importance to all bodies applying administrative procedures in their business, and this body circle is quite wide. It is a general law applicable to the implementation of the administrative procedure where a special law is not regulated differently and it has always been a wish for that law to become one of the only laws governing the administrative procedure. We know that this is not the case and that we still have a lot of laws on which the administrative procedure is regulated typical of the procedure, such as the General Tax Law and other laws. We therefore appeal to the applicant to propose amendments to all laws in which the procedure is governed differently than in the ZUP and to the administrative procedure and to apply only the provisions of this law. It would be simpler for the citizens then because they would not have to keep an eye on a whole series of provisions but only on this unique law. This is a small introduction to the Law on General Administrative Procedure while as regards the amendments proposed in these amendments and additions, while respecting that it is really a law that applies the whole circle of public law and other bodies, it must be clear, reviewed and simple and above all in order to achieve certain rights as quickly as possible and sometimes regulation of certain obligations. Sometimes certain solutions can actually slow down or even deny certain procedural rights to the parties. This pandemic time has directed us more than ever to electronic communication and it is certainly the fastest, cheapest and even most accessible. However, provision Art. The 12th to be edited by the Art. Article 94(4) may lead to difficulties in achieving certain procedural rights of parties in a process which could be lost due to the coup, call for discussion, appeal, the right to launch administrative dispute, etc. It would be more appropriate for this type of delivery to apply exclusively to certain actions which cannot lead to a breach of the right, e.g. the delivery of the documentation. In order to insist on such a provision, it is necessary to leave a certain period of time from which the deadline for so-called time limit should expire. download of the submitted letter. The law on litigation prescribes 15 days or maybe 8 days, but I think it's important to prescribe, and then start a legal deadline for taking a certain legal action. The other amendments, in our opinion, do not affect the legality of the administrative procedure or threaten the rights of parties to the proceedings. The representatives of the SDP, and those who feel that way, will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58676	The next club of representatives will be the Centre and GLAS, and Dalija Oreskovic will speak to the respected representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58677	Fellow MPs and MPs. The General Administrative Procedure Act is a general procedural law under which public authorities act and deal in administrative matters and since the existing ZUP has been in force since 2010, and that the proposed changes include the modern achievements of information and communication technology in administrative action. In principle, such a step should be supported and sought to make it as high - quality as possible in a nomotechnical sense. But I said the word in principle and respected ministers and my support for this law was principled in nature with a clear criticism to you as a resolute minister that you didn't touch the essence. In fact, it is a big mistake that the introduction of information and communication technologies will in itself simplify and speed up administrative procedures because the rules are neither the only nor the main problems that plague the administrative process. So I've already asked you in the replica why you've been going into changes like this pointical individual of this law that hasn't been more serious since 2010. leave out the complete chapter 5 that speaks of the deadlines of action. But before I point out on some concrete examples the very core of the problem from which this government escapes, I will sum up my comments and criticism to the government as a proposing in a single message. So, dear Government and Resort Ministers, stop scratching the surface, if you are unable to deal with the root problems in the functioning of the system, don't take any business. In particular, do not wastelessly devising the amendments to the law to burden the work of the Croatian Parliament and create an illusion that something concrete is being done because it is not the case. It is therefore good to have a united debate on the ZUP and the Law on Administrative Disputes. These two laws by nature of things and by logic are attached to each other and can be said to be connected by a system of connected vessels. However, the fact that these two different and yet separate laws have a single united debate has one other advantage which I am particularly looking forward to, which is that with full law and with full justification, I can point out the procedural problems arising from the Commission's practice of deciding on a conflict of interest. So it is the problems that arise in implementing the administrative procedure, and then in problems concerning the administrative disputes themselves, we can say that these cases bear the names and last names of state officials in the ranks of this HDZ government or their corrupt satellites and pulens. The joint title or conclusion of all these cases could be found guilty by the Law on Administrative Procedure, and released under the Law on Administrative Disputes and those cases would be by the order of Martina Dalic, Zdravko Marić, the late Milan Bandic and Andrej Plenkovic himself. And here's what this is all about, so one of the public bodies that implements the General Administrative Procedure Act is also the Committee for Decision on Conflict of Interest. This stems from a provision that states that the decision of the commission may be initiated by a administrative dispute which will be settled by the competent administrative court within 60 days of the date of initiation of the dispute. And in order to avoid any possible reminders from the Honorable Chair of the sitting may not be concentrated at the moment, so there have already been none, I will immediately point out that everything I am going to say is very much relevant to Article 5 of the proposed amendments to the law which amends the existing Article 26. The law on general administrative procedure which actually defines cooperation between different public authorities. Therefore, the existing paragraph 1 states that public law authorities are obliged to provide legal assistance to other public authorities within the limits of their work and competence, we are aware of the Commission's practice that such cooperation does not have as much a commission as the competent authority for the implementation of the procedure can often not even obtain the necessary information and documentation because other competent authorities refuse to deliver it to them in order to protect officials, as I have already cited by the might and order of members of this Government. And since, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Chairman can be put in place by the end of the debate any amendments and proposals for amendments and additions, to justify everything that I will say to the following two, three things could be included here. Among other things, this is an obligation, a clearly prescribed obligation by each public law authority to respond within an appropriate period to the requirements of the second and firm, clear and quite serious, severe sanctions in case they are not satisfied. And the second topic that also justifies everything I'm going to say is the very fact that the essence of all the proposed changes apply to so-called. and the famous famous famous digitization. So digitisation is not really the introduction of electronic communication into administrative action because you can see for yourself that it already exists as a possibility under the existing Article 75. The General Administrative Procedure Act. What digitisation should introduce and enable, which is not available, is transparency, availability and uniformity of court practice. And now I come to the essence of connecting the ZUP and the ZUS and determining the responsibility of politicians and officials under one law and the release by another. Therefore, that provision, which states that against the decision of the Committee on Conflict of Interest, can be triggered by an administrative dispute and that the court will decide within 60 days not to always respect itself in practice and it has been the duty of the Minister to determine whether or not the state bodies and courts can prescribe within the time limits prescribed and to remove possible causes and obstacles as it is also one of the reasons why our citizens in the judiciary do not have full confidence. And the second reason is to determine why there was at all a change in the practice of administrative courts in cases concerning high-ranking state officials because, despite the fact that the deadlines were not respected, the practice of administrative courts in cases within the jurisdiction of the Commission for the conflict of interest for a number of years was firm, unequivocal and consistent until the decision in the Tomislav Karamark case was taken in 2016 at the time when the question of the Commission's authority and jurisdiction to determine the infringement of the principles became politically controversial. It is that the Constitutional Court's decision in the case did not concern Tomislav Karamark himself in its essence was more of an attempt, a political attempt to rescue Andrej Plenkovic and his resolute ministers who found themselves in violation of the principle of action. As a consequence of the Constitutional Court’s decision, administrative courts began to change their practice by determining that the body formed in order to determine the conflict of interest could no longer fulfil that jurisdiction, and what particularly happened in administrative courts was that all the disputed, political and public disputed decisions were more or less coming to one of the same judges and judicial councils who were without compliance with Article 40. The law on general, the Law on Administrative Disputes states that in the event of a change of case law, a session of judges must be convened which would then establish and explain why the case law changes simply adapts their interpretation to the needs and requirements of the political, therefore political, rather than the legal moment. All this has to do with not only the amendments and additions of these two laws, it also has to do with the refusal to pass a Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest which lacks specific procedural provisions on which the Constitutional Court has said something long ago in 2012, so since 2012. There are instructions from the Constitutional Court and the task of the HS to devise a special procedural procedure to determine the responsibility of our politicians and officials. The policy of running away from it is a wave of the government's policies, and the reason for that is known. Therefore, the reply of the Secretary-General that the new Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest will be adopted in accordance with the planned normative activities within the appropriate time limit is a final insult to common sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58678	Thank you very much. We are going to an individual debate, so the first one will be spoken by the respected representative Zlatko Hasanbegovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58679	... Look back at one moment that no one, as I've seen from my officers, has ever seen in this pay phone. [[Last-on speaker]] A key question raised about this legislative proposal why this law goes into emergency procedure, first and second reading, which is a legislative exception that confirms the rule of regular procedure, why haste, what urgency? From the assessment of the situation and the reasoning of the basic issues at first sight, it can be made unlisted that the government is motivated solely by a push of information communication technology by the ideal of digitisation. Given the development of technology and the need to speed up administrative procedures from which some can truly identify themselves with court proceedings, comprehensive not only cosmetic changes are needed. The proposed amendments are i.e. The additions could and probably will, without a doubt, speed up the course of administrative procedures, but only for informational written persons, while the rest of the population will unfortunately have to continue to veer Colloquially in order to effectively exercise their rights, mainly in administrative proceedings in front of our administrative bodies, counties, cities and municipalities. In my court, the real and only reason for this haste is on the whole other side and has nothing to do with digitization. Let us be clear, it is exclusively about the intention to sneak out of the public's focus and the scale of the debate amongst others and in this law, this is only the beginning, to penotrate the provisions of the questionable Law on the life partnership of the same sex who, as we remember, are affected by the referendum will of the Croatian people, which has introduced a provision on marriage as an exclusive community of men and women. In fact, to a significant extent, it's a law, let's call it lex bauk, a life partnership equal to marriage. A step further has gone by equating the so-called. an informal life partnership with an extramarital community under the Family Law. In fact, the only difference in the actual equation of these two institutes was to abandon the possibility of adopting children because of the resolution of the SDP at the time against the possibility of adopting children from same-sex couples. At the time, it was a resolute position, and in the meantime, I guess my colleagues evolved. For example, administrative procedures will do so. Before the Ministry of Justice, the potential manipulative statement of witnesses certified by the public notary that it is located in the so-called so-called ‘. an informal life partnership with a person of the same sex of at least 3 years, so which in this particular case is a party to the procedure. More than the cynicism that the reason for further equalization of marriage as a community is exclusively men and women and the life partnership of persons of the same sex according to the content of real in the urgent procedure of these actually the government found in so-called. Covid-19 because it is reportedly necessary to amend the law in a hasty manner to protect people's lives and health. If the government truly wants to further protect citizens' rights through administrative procedures, it takes much more than a hasty and additional equalization of marriage as a community of men and women and the life-form or informal partnership of persons of the same sex. Our basic and principled position is the adoption of the Law on Life Partnership, lex Bauk, so remind me, in '14, this was a step over the referendum will and decision of the Croatian people, and this will also represent any legal novels that will penetrate the provisions of this law into Croatian legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58680	We have two replicas. Stay, stay please colleague Hasanbegovic here, we have two replicas, the first respected representative of Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58681	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear colleague, you have made your point as to why this proposal is, in fact, the one and the other law in an emergency procedure. However, I cannot agree with you, I think you must understand that there is also an urgency because of these circumstances in which we live, but it is also important that the law be passed as soon as possible so that it can take effect at the beginning of the year. This is important for us to leave one period to be able to train and serve to create technical preconditions so that the law and the other can be applied in quality with the date of entry into force. So I think with these technical changes, it's essentially for these reasons that are mentioned and justified by the adoption of an emergency procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58682	Dear Representative Hasanbegovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58683	Thank you for your explanation. So we're not in psychotherapy here, I'm not obliged to understand or not understand your motives. I ask the principle question, all that you have stated can be applied to the adoption of any law in this House. If that's the case, we live on the so-called team. The times you've written, you've been eating covid for times, then we'll end in fact the regular procedure for rationalization and, as an additional anti-pandemic measure, introduce the Institute of Law-Making exclusively in an emergency procedure without first and second readings. In principle, we will show that we are civicly aware and thus we will give our pain in the fight against a pandemic called covid.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58684	The Republic also has a respected representative, Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58685	Mr Hasanbegovic and I express my gratitude for reminding the public of my personal contribution to improving the state of human rights in the Republic of Croatia and the minority communities, and if I understand correctly, your fundamental remark is on the current government, which has tied registered partners together with marriage and others in this law. This is otherwise already regulated and registered in the State Partnership Act, but I would like to remind you that while you were part of the parliamentary majority, such laws came with life partners, and I will also try to find from the period when you were a member of the Government that she also proposed such laws supplementing the rights of life partners in such a way that they specifically regulated what the Life Partnership Act already states. For that first part, I don't know yet, I'll try to find it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58686	I can give you my colleague Hasanbegovic, in the Parliament, usually the chairman gives you his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58687	I accept your objection. I may have been in such parliamentary majority, but that is one of the reasons why I am no longer in such parliamentary majority. Your remarks refer to the finding of the fact that the government of Master Plenkovic only organically continues your legislative activity of your political goals. And if you are wondering why, in the political sense, the SDP is in this situation, because all your policies are being implemented by the government of Master Plenkovic and you have therefore become an unnecessary party, if the left of Croatia has its new leader, called Andrej Plenkovic, and from the end it is being seen not by the SDP but by another branch of a global movement called We Can.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58688	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Zeljko Pavić. Here you go. My colleagues, we can sit in places, I gave my word to my colleague Pavic, let's stop talking, let's sit in places. We're not at the market in the Parliament, let's work. Here you go, fellow Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58689	The Honorable President, the Honorable Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Let me look back immediately, my colleague has gone, to refer to this emergency procedure. In fact, the application of the law of 1.1.2022, I have already spoken from this speaker several times and I will repeat it again, I welcome the early adoption of the law that all actors who will later work under this law will be able to prepare themselves for the use of the graces that we are offered. In particular, today it is about informing business processes not only on the side of the ministry, or on the side of people who solve these problems, but also on the side of those who submit the documentation. I already mentioned it earlier in my replica, we know that at the moment GSB or Governor Services Bus is not working, he works in one part, he's been working for some cca 70 services and he's been doing it since the 3rd month, and I hope I've at least contributed a little bit to speeding up the work of this Governor Services Bus when I had a debate here with Minister Horvat about handing over the documentation for rebuilding houses that died in the earthquake. Given that this GSB is not yet 100% operational, I hope that this network that is used to ensure secure data transfer and that the data that will be taught in these procedures will be 100% protected, given that we also need to take care of GDPR or about the protection of personal data. Among other things, you see here in the law several times mentioning the OIB means that we will rely on the OIB and have data related to this OIB so that it must be 100% safe. What I'd like to draw more attention to, which doesn't bother me a little bit, but I'd like to help a little bit, it's about taking over the data. Namely, an additional possibility has been proposed to notify the address, to the email address, in such a way as to use the "push" function in the mailbox, but I will remind you that this function "push" pushes a message that has arrived or informed the message that has arrived in the official mailbox only according to another mail. Well, I'm appealing to you, if that's possible, and it's possible to make a technical solution that will actually push the notice towards your cell phone. In fact, to send a text message, given that we are actually getting real-time information when we pay something at a bank's cash register, I think we can get a notice that something has arrived in our official mailbox, given that we rarely read especially these official e-mails, and when we are somewhere in remote places on the island, we read very rarely these private e-mails. So here's what I suggest is that this function be installed either in a mailbox or through a regulation that is so currently related to the technical infrastructure to get rid of it there. I mean, it's not an expensive solution, and it'll be very good for the users. And I still have one question, or I have one proposal to re-send unready applications. It is, in fact, that you stated in the law that if the application or documents that will be attached to that application are inaccessible that you will then, within some time, ask for that application or documentation to be sent again. The inaccessibility will only be in case the wrong tools have been used to form the documents that we send, so I suggest that the tools that need to be defined are defined, which should define the documents that are then sent towards, according to the perpetrators, because then the error is likely to be the smaller one, and in addition it is not specified whether the deadlines have run since the first upload or from the re-send. If a man wants to manipulate something, then he can form a document in the first place with any tools, and it'll be inaccessible, he's running deadlines, and actually no one can do anything, so here's what I suggest if it's still possible to put it into the law or deal with some sublaws. Otherwise, I personally support new technical solutions, and I hope that it will be real in function since 1.1, since here we know that it is not yet possible to implement it for the simple reason that the DNS documentary.../incomprehensible/... system has not yet been purchased. So when it's bought, we might be able to use it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58690	We have one replica of the esteemed representative of Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58691	Thank you very much. A colleague of mine should be commended. However, when we know that this is about the ministry where the predecessor of Minister Malenice, Lovro Kuščević stole the people's referendum on how to digitise it, how to check it, how to do what to the people, which is democracy, we are talking about a referendum of the same digitisation in the administration when the previous Lovro Kuščević did what he did with the referendum and the Government of Andrej Plenkovic, who spit in the face of 400,000 people how to democratisation it all, digitise how these processes of the referendum that will be returned by the people he destroyed. Whether all the laws we're passing would be in favor of the people or exclusively of the ministers, with policies, because if the Ministry of Administration steals a referendum and signs people, then the kind of laws we're talking about here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58692	This way, fellow Bull, today is the first day, so I won't give you a warning, you know you speak completely off topic, so this one, but please don't do it in the future. What's the matter with my colleague Bulj's office?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58693	Thank you very much, Vice President, Mr. Rainer. You have injured the Rules of Procedure. I have spoken about the subject of digitization and all that is in this law. However, it is my right to make a political statement, i.e. Your position that the Ministry of Administration has stolen a referendum that has not been digitized, which had to be shown, the people's will has been stolen that is with the Istanbul Convention, like you, as the advocate who supported it, you have the right to defend the Istanbul Convention as well as the will of the people...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58694	Well, you said yours, and I'm giving up the fact that I won't give a warning on the first day, so I'm giving you a warning. Here's my colleague, Grumo. What's the injured Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58695	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure, therefore, you have injured the Rules of Procedure, therefore, Bulj has absolutely the right to state his position, touched the subject, expressed his position on a referendum which may be and is a referendum so it concerns digitisation and all of these processes that are being spoken of here so that you have acted completely inadequately and you have come out of that role that you actually have, which is to chair this session, maintain order and peace and allow MPs to express their views.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58696	I would like to teach you this time, you have been a representative long enough to at least remember the articles of the Rules of Procedure, you have called on Article 8 which has nothing to do with what you are talking about. This has nothing to do with it because it's about an agent who wasn't present at the constitutive session of the assembly. I literally think you're making fun of everything together and getting a warning about it. You need to answer your colleague Pavić something about it or, uh, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58697	Thank you very much. Well, here's fellow Bull, if you've read what I've read, then it's actually turned out that a lot of signatures have been declared invalid. Every step in informing business processes whether it's related to the Ministry of Administration, whether it's related to any body of the state administration will help us stop these things from happening. In fact, if everything is going to be okay, I hope that we can do that in the future, we can make that referendum and the digital way. If we are really going to use all those services that we could use, which is that we are calling both the OIB and using our.../incomprehensible/... for authentication or for authorization, then there will no longer be any problem and question whether something is 100% true or not because we will actually know at the moment when we press enter how many votes there are for a single referendum or for a single law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58698	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Nikola Grumoja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58699	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, so I think we all agree that time has long matured to digitise relations and communication between citizens and our state and public administrations in full terms of digitalisation and digitally. Although it is often the government that has made grand announcements about reforms, we have already been accustomed to welcome such announcements justly with a skepticism that is without exception shown to be justifiable. The word reform has been so strained that no one in Croatia takes it seriously. This law has some good sides and can become a real small reform in the public administration that we have been waiting so long. We followed this summer as the ministry, with the preparation of this law, produced and adopted a new Office Business Regulation that almost revolutionaryly changes the way the state administration operates. The new Regulation on office operations finally adopts the right to digitisation, which implies that state administration documents are primarily produced as electronic documents in their original, and that they are collated and exchanged as such by electronic means using electronic signatures and stamps. It is difficult to explain at all what benefits universal digitisation of public administration brings. Here we are talking about savings that are estimated to be up to 2% of the state budget, as an example of Estonia that has implemented universal digitisation in its administration. It's a few billion kunas a year only in the state budget. Here we are talking about new opportunities to speed up the work of the administration and increase its efficiency. This law and regulation, I have some objections and doubts that are being raised, but if they were to be consistently applied, we would have to stop forcing citizens and entrepreneurs into the processions per counter to collect all the documentation they need for their demands. We must not ignore the anti-corruption effect that we have talked so much about in recent days as a result of these affairs that are emerging. Of course, such a regulation and such a law prevent or at least make it difficult to manipulate objects, hide attachments or phenomena such as famous anti-dates or generally manipulate the time of receipt of objects and primarily the order of their resolution. This law and regulation are also a presumption of transparency in the work of state and public administration because citizens will finally have an opportunity to monitor where and at what stage their subject is. At the same time, heads of state and other public bodies will have full insight into the work of officials and subsistence officers at all levels. We see from the bill that the ministry has also moved away with the implementation of the project, so we will soon have tools to detect bottlenecks in the administrative conduct of the state administration. All in all, it is clear that in this segment of work, the Ministry of Justice and Administration that there are actually some people who know what they are doing, have a goal and vision, now only the question remains whether we are ready to implement all these changes precisely and consistently, whether we are going to give people in the ministry and the state administration who have prepared this law and earlier regulation and who obviously did not rest too much this summer, whether we are going to give them the opportunity to do this job until the end. So I'm a little caught up and I don't know what the reasons for this law and the office business regulation in our public are going under the radar. Moreover, I have heard more commendation or read from the profession, experts and practitioners than the government and the ministry have boasted of this good work. And now, are the reasons maybe the reasons that counterpart Hasanbegovic was talking about that this is not to be praised for might be something else this is trying to push through, I, I don't know, but definitely this is a small, small reform which certainly should have been praised by this government. So the ministry doesn't promote this important news at all. The impression is that key people in the government are completely unaware of the importance of these changes. So, in that sense, we're going to see what and how this around this law, about the vote itself, but here's the opportunity, I often criticize some things and praise which, which are good.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58700	The Republic has a respected representative, Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58701	Comrade Grmoy, what should be commended is well commended, so publicly praise this bill. However, I will always go back to what hurts the people most, it means that digitization and all that we have within that digitization that it was actually already secured during the MOST when it was Minister, 800 million euros with it not being respected at the time, which is why I don't know, so that this process could have been run long ago, the funds were secured, but better ever than ever. However, which is the goal of every reform, mainly in the administration, when we talk about administration, about the part of the administration, is the will of the people. And it really hurts me that the referendum is not digitized, which is why 40,000 signatures of 400,000 signatures have been thrown under the feet and who's bothered by it, gave fellow Reiner, which he was for the Istanbul Convention, which is what he claims to be istabulac I don't know, here.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58702	So, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58703	Here's your buddy, Grmo.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58704	Thank you. As for this possibility of some kind of e-declaration, here are fellow sovereigns now announcing a referendum. We know how difficult the conditions for conducting a referendum in Croatia are and how difficult it is actually to collect signatures. The only successful referendums were so let's remember the one about marriage, then HDZ was in opposition and stood behind the referendum and he passed, we had a signing collection when the unions organized then succeeded. So if it does not stand behind a referendum initiative by some powerful organization that has its branches in almost every city, the municipality will not pass the referendum. We've had these referendums that you're talking about, there's a referendum, I agree with you stolen because we've been admitted to losing these signed papers with invalid signatures, or that they've disappeared in the Ministry of Administration, so it's safe that it's about stealing. And if we had the possibility of an e-referendum, then of course it would be a lot easier.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58705	Thank you. The next is the replica of the respected representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58706	Comrade Grmoi, it is politically signifying that you have commended the government previously to you by your colleague Miletic, I would say that some of them have one of their own. Smell. [[Grmoya raider: There.]] But I primarily had a need to point out to you the fact that regarding this particular law someone had led you astray. On the one hand, it is true that judicial reform rights mean moving small steps across a series of issues and segments, but the amendments to these laws are not. Electronic communication isn't anything new, it used to be, and now we have some new functionality that they agree on, but they don't solve the essence, and neither does it have that anti-corruption meaning that you're talking about. That you have listened to my debate and my presentation just on the example of the ZUP and the ZUS and the situation in the administrative courts that are changing the settled caselaw without having previously held a general session of all judges and explained why they are changing their attitude suggests that something with ours The judiciary is not right, and this law does not touch [[Thank you. The Honorable representative of the Grmoy.]] Not in any way. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58707	Thank you very much. The Honorable representative of the Grmoy. Please, let's just stick to the time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58708	Dear colleague Oreshkovic. If there is a stronger and more authentic opposition and opposition than me to Andrej Plenkovic and HDZ's government, then I don't know. And the fact that I'm going to praise something, I'm going to commend it, I didn't say that I would vote on this law, and I'm not saying that everything is good in this law. And MP Miletic commended the government for not having, a little talk about the situation in other European countries, what the situation in Australia and New Zealand is that it did not go into more severe measures, but it is the merit of scientists who advocated it, and it is credit for us in opposition. It's not the government's fault. And some here today at HS I hope you're not among them, asking the government to take a sharper measure, MPs we can ask for more severe measures. So we don't want that scenario to happen in the Republic of Croatia and we're going in that direction to make the measures more loose.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58709	Dear Representative Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58710	Dear colleague. You said a few things that don't actually stand. In fact, you said that applying this law would solve the cases in the order in which they came. It doesn't have to be that way because the subjects now with this law are actually just digitally surrendering. As they will be resolved, this depends on the internal information system or on the information of the business process in the institution that has received these requests. Therefore, if there is a system there that does not allow objects to be solved through order or until one object is solved that does not go to another object then it will do so, if that is not the case. Secondly, I agree with my colleague Oreskovic, I think it would be good if it were good for some more things to be completed, but this is not the subject of these amendments now. The law is probably not ideal, but these amendments really do when you look at technical, technological and ideally I think it's good and we need to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58711	The Honorable representative of the Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58712	So even when I was talking about how citizens would be able to track how cases were solved, I wasn't talking about this bill, I was talking about digitisation in principle. So if you have these processes digitized then it's clear that if it's like you said an information solution so that citizens can track objects then no one will be able to fool with it, so the citizens will be able to see if some of the items are solved in order or dealt with the way they need to be dealt with. So I'm not talking about the law itself, I'm talking about digitization in principle. And if there were objections to the law itself, of course there is, and that's what I said, but here's the possibility that we should warn and show by our vote, in the aftermath of our debates which is good and which is not good.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58713	Thank you. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Mira Bulja. Here you go. [[Is there a replica here? No. No.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58714	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Although someone at this time is watching the Parliament I would say that digitisation is often mentioned, the shifts are very small and of course it makes it easier for all life and entrepreneurs and for us in general to man, it is the law for a man I once mentioned to the Minister of Administration that digitisation brings a lot of good, however it should always have around it of course and protective mechanisms, it should have the means provided, it is nevertheless a process that requires a lot of funds and this procedure will indeed be financially extensive. What's the financial framework, I don't know. Did you assess it? Did you provide all this with a budget? Is this all in line with this law that you want to apply? In fact, it's the original thing to respect the Constitution. The constitution is a fundamental category, and when we talk about administration, the administration is in charge of these parts mainly as regards the referendum. I will always mention this referendum when we talk about administration and digitisation because we can also carry out referendums and not that we have descriptive places, and even there are any speeches that will only be in certain places, in municipalities, city administrations, I don't know where, county offices. However, in this way, it would be worth adapting the system so that people can vote in a referendum not only locally as some local self-governments try to introduce on certain issues, but also nationally, and so will be the best insight and what happened about the referendum on the Istanbul Convention and the electoral law, amendments to the electoral law implemented by the People's citizens' initiative. So here they're trying to match up a lot of these things, primarily respecting the Constitution and the will of the people that this government didn't show at this referendum because it stole that referendum because it didn't show the list of invalid signatures. It is not a question of whether someone was in favour of the People's Initiative deciding either on the Istanbul Convention but is a matter of democratic processes and thus serves the administration, to respect the Constitution and democratic processes. However, the government of Andrej Plenkovic i.e. Your predecessor, Lovre Kuščević, I mean stupidly now people mentioned who were not there but while there I was talking about it stole the will of the people sufficient number by the constitution guaranteed by the laws prescribed by the constitutional law of the referendum in this way was essentially a violation of the will of the people. And now we go on, we come to this law now, and we break the basic law because we come out of the will of the people, we as a parliament, and the administration is responsible for it, because this is an important law because management is the most responsible thing to allow any man in this case any payment of the bill, whatever, anything that's digitized that's easier, that it passes and that it's much simpler. But when we talk seriously about things as parliamentary representatives elected, then the fundamental principle is to protect those who chose us. The Ministry of Administration didn't do it, it worked against the Constitution and it should be talked about not being off topic but it's just about the subject. The basic apostolic of democracy is the will of the people, and from the people comes power. Parliament, and the government comes out of parliament. So we're the greatest legitimacy we have to discuss, not the government, the government is the promoter that's the second that the center of power that we have is not here and the triba would be but on the other side of the square, and here are the wavers of the hands most of the time and there's the problem. So we are the will of the people, we, and the administration is the one who does it. Why don't we digitize the referendum, no matter how much we agree on it, don't get along. If a sufficient number of people collects a number of signatures, we must honor the Ministers. It's a huge injustice. This was about electoral law, it was good about the Istanbul Convention, but the good part here most obviously chairing me earlier warned me because I mentioned it because he was probably a great advocate of the Istanbul Convention who thought it wasn't addressed to him, no, it wasn't addressed to those against, not to those who, but the triba was to decide on it by the people, and it wasn't. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58715	The next individual debate will be respected representatives of Sandra Bencic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58716	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, here I will briefly repeat something that I also presented on this morning's Committee on the Constitution on Two Problems, and on the Law on Administrative Procedure, or these amendments that we have before us. First, I will agree with my colleague Dalia that this is certainly not, you mentioned judicial reform, of course not, but it is an important step, and I will certainly say this in a easier approach to the administration at all levels and also the necessary processes to speed up certain procedures within, within the administration itself, that the whole process of administrative procedure is easier for citizens, it is safe. However, there are also certain problems that I see in the implementation of this, this law or in the implementation of primarily electronic delivery issues considered to be personal written delivery. The first thing is that automatically if someone submits an electronic specific request to initiate an administrative procedure, he actually agrees to be delivered to the user compartment via the e-Citizen system. Now, the problem with this is how many people will really be aware that by submitting an electronic form, by launching the administrative procedure by electronic means, they really agreed that their delivery is done in the user compartment because what I see is that a number of citizens will certainly miss out on the user box for any reason if they will not be aware that it has to, and that over the past 8 days when it is considered that delivery is done after being delivered to the user compartment, there will be too many pre-inclusive deadlines for appeal. When the appeal deadlines expire, therefore, that citizen, a citizen who may not have seen it, will no longer have the possibility of appeal, so the deadlines have expired, but even since he has not filed the appeal, the question will no longer be able to dispute in the administrative dispute. So it could happen that he lost some right, and that he couldn't really influence it or he didn't know it. Now, of course we have to find a solution to that. It seems to me that it would be important that on every form of administrative procedure, there is a clear indication, and not in those fine letters, it clearly states that it agrees that all delivery is carried out in its mailbox, the user compartment, that it will come by electronic means and that it is obliged to check the user compartment so that it can respond in time to any submission it receives. We may even have the opportunity to click on it to agree, so someone really knows he's agreed to it. The other thing was that it seemed to me that it would be important in the reasons for the return to the previous state of affairs, you might explicitly put the reasons which are technical or technological nature of the inability to access the user's box. So when we really couldn't, for any objective reason, access our user compartment so that it could be considered as a reason to return to the previous situation so that we could actually go back to being able to file a complaint as citizens. Now, it is clear that among the reasons there for a return to the previous situation can be interpreted so also by what we now have to apply to the situation. However, interpretation is always in the hands of people who carry out the administrative procedure and we know that so far the law has been applied in different ways, that we do not have a uniform practice around certain institutes and that it may not be a bad explication to put it in place so that indeed all those involved on the side of the administration in the administrative procedure clearly know that in that case the citizen must be allowed to return to the previous situation. Here, these are some of our proposals that we actually want to prevent what we see might happen, which is that citizens will lose the possibility of appeal and thus and the rights themselves because they were not aware that personal delivery will indeed be made by delivery in the user box itself and that they are obliged to verify it. Here, so much for me, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58717	We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58718	Dear fellow Members, I will, on one example, say how far this government lags behind. So, 2015. The Commission's decision-making committee on conflict of interest as one of the state's state bodies has introduced user boxes, digital boxes for the digital communication of state officials and implemented all of what we are talking about here today, including that officials are informed that, by means of an electronic delivery system, they agree to all of these problems that you're talking about are not available. And the commission didn't invent hot water, as even now the secretary of the administration doesn't reveal like Columbus America, these are all the mechanisms that have existed before, so we haven't made an absolutely revolutionary step today, yet we're coughing for what could have already been pursued long ago, long ago, long ago. And what we lack to possibly achieve advantages for our citizens is that digitisation is used for a system of transparency and uniformity of court practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58719	Thank you very much. Dear representative Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58720	I agree that we are really very late with the digitisation of the public sector in general, and that just digitisation, for example, and the availability of court decisions should be one of the key, key elements of increasing the transparency of the work of courts, and then the basis for improving this work, and then the basis for equating judicial practice throughout the country. It is also a matter of course of administrative trial, which is part of now regular courts. And also some mechanisms that could have increased the transparency of the work of the state administration long ago from you being able to track where any document, which you are in charge of, how late, I think these are tools that exist for years and that we should have implemented them long ago. In fact, we also had a very significant funding from EU technical assistance, which could have been financed. Unfortunately, we're only going to do it today.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58721	Thank you. The next replica of the respected representative Pavic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58722	Dear MPs, I'm not going to refer to that part, I think the minister will answer about the technical solutions in the institutions themselves, but I'll remind you of my debate, I don't know if you've listened to my debate or not. Whether we're going to warn the person who delivers his documents there on that document that they're going to get digitally, I asked the minister to, in addition to the smoke that is going to push information about the fact that a message has arrived on another e-mail to allow that same information to be sent to SMS, since in 3 places they're going to get information about it, so they're going to get an e-mail that's what's official or that's given to him by the state, who doesn't control it every day, they're going to get it on a private e-mail that he uses every day, and they're going to get it on the phone that's in his pocket. So we think that with such things we should go further with suggestions on how to warn the man that he has received the document.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58723	Thank you. Dear representative Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58724	Well, yes, the message smoke is certainly some kind of available technical solution. Of course, it will also depend on the citizens whether they want to give their phone number or their private mail, they must certainly have the right to give it or not, it cannot and must be a condition. But I wanted to go back to another thing I wanted to say about accessing digitization. We on the one hand, which is good, are going to allow the digitization of public administration. However, on the other hand, I must remind you that the infrastructure, the equipment that our individual state bodies have is disastrously bad. So, you have police stations where, go and see what computers they're working on, health workers on what computers they're working on, so, from, from this basic infrastructure, the quality of Internet connection, etc. So we still have those problems that should belong in the '90s, no later than the beginning of 2000, so sometimes I get a little scared when we're putting a Porsche engine in Fitz.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58725	Thank you. The next speaker, Dalia Oreskovic, will speak finally on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58726	My fellow MPs and MPs. It's final exposure, so I'm going to try to sublime what's most important about these two laws I have to say. Although this is not explicitly highlighted anywhere, I think that most of us are intuitively feeling that the changes in the ZUP and the ZUS that are now proposed have something to do with the attempt to speed up the process of renewal and to facilitate citizens' communication with public authorities and to facilitate mutual communication between different public authorities, I guess that is why most of the opposition has such a benevolent attitude towards such proposals in the ruling order and why the interest in this debate is relatively weak. And as I said in my first line, in principle, it's not a problem to support this kind of change, the problem is something else, the problem is that we have an excessively benevolent attitude towards a very superficially done job. And the task of the opposition is not to praise what is good, the task of the opposition is to point to what is bad, and especially to point to what is not in a certain law, and it should be there. And I'm going back to the fact that the previous General Administrative Procedure Act was passed back in 2010. So after 11 years, after seeing what's missing in practice, which we lack in the system, our minister comes to HS with half-decision and that's what I wanted to point out. And where are your problems? Well, problems are on the deadline. So, if we talk about this digitalisation process that will reduce some corrupt actions that are often happening in administrative bodies, it is a delusion, such as even waiting lists did not actually help citizens in the availability of healthcare. When we talk about the quality of the administrative procedures, and then the administrative disputes, it actually all comes down to a measure of the content of what was decided and how it was decided, this is what Dobronic was talking about in his programme and that is why I support him so much. We lose sight of the essence all the time, and the bottom line is that, dear ministers, a number of administrative procedures will come at some stage in the phase of administrative disputes. We at the administrative courts have one big problem, which is that in those issues which are politically sensitive cases and continue to come to the elected judges who dare to change the established, well-supervised case-law as was the situation with cases from the Committee's domain of decision-making on conflict of interest, so on the order of cases concerning the Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, his ministers from the Borg affair, Milan Bandic and similar corrupt pollens. So, there we had the situation that the elected judges so one set of judges decided to change their position, their practice so far and to find that the commission called the Committee for Decision on Conflict of Interest has no longer anything to say, so establishing a conflict of interest is no longer the jurisdiction of that governing body. In that same court, there are other judges who have fenced themselves from such practice, the more we have a judge who has publicly stepped up and said she actually feels deeply uncomfortable because it is not true that, behind the ruling on cutting the powers of the Commission, the entire High Administrative Court. And the fact is that the High Administrative Court did not hold a general session of all judges that should be held in order to change the practice of that court in the first place. And once again, the amendments to the law do not address and see this problem in any way, an even bigger problem is that, besides me, none of the MPs see this problem. And the biggest problem is that we would ever get to this phase of administrative trial we have to carry out administrative proceedings. Well, there's only a problem that different state bodies don't feel the obligation that they write in the law to provide the other body with the information and documentation that one of them sought for a reason within his work and jurisdiction. And a state that is unable to introduce order, which is unable to introduce the responsibility of anyone who dares to deprive another body of something, so we have a situation where the police and the M.O.P. don't provide documentation to the attorney general and nothing to anyone. As long as there's no sanctions, there's no rule of law. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58727	The next SDP representative club will speak on behalf of the SDP respected representative Zeljko Pavić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58728	The Honorable President, the Honorable Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I will not defend the government of Andrej Plenkovic but we must say that the things that are happening now are positive things. In fact, the government of Andrej Plenkovic is not responsible for the information being carried out in some authorities of the state administration. Information has been carried out in this country since the first day that this country was created. Some of the information systems we worked from zero, some of us had half, let's say the tax system existed in one part, so we only upgraded it, but let's say the customs system had to make it from zero because there was nothing. And what was being built all these many years on it was spent billions and I'm glad these systems are being upgraded, that they're replacing themselves with new systems that are... new technologies and that if exactly what it says in the documentation, if what the minister said is true, we'll have a new system for... documentation that will be based on the newest technologies that are... this year, it's still in the bandages but it's on the pier. Some systems have not yet been purchased, have not yet been acquired, which will be used since 1.1.2022. And we must commend that, we must commend the work on that part because what counterpart Oreskovic said if we want to have transparent systems, we will do so first by digitising. If we have a digitalized complete system, a complete business system, if we have access to a system of individual courts that we can see which status is our subject, if we can find out which judge on it is doing, what are the changes on this case we will have more transparency and we will be able to do better and better quality work and we as citizens will have a better service. And that's why, personally, we, as the SDP Club, welcome this solution and we will support this solution by appealing to the minister again that what we said would be good to put in that system, to improve the system, to ensure that those who need to see it will really and see that those who need to read the documents will really read that document and read that it will really build it up. It's not something revolutionary, but it's used, today such technology is not expensive, and it's going to mean a lot more to our citizens. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-15-0.u58729	Thank you. That concludes the debate on this point. We'll vote on it when the conditions are met.
