ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u27293	Now it's Mrs. Devereaux's turn. Andreja Maric, who will be the position of the SDP Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u27294	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. We are witnessing the third wave of COVID’s pandemic 19th inexorably growing, more and more hospitalized, patients from between 50 and 60 years of age end up in hospitals at invasive ventilation, the average age of those who are ill has dropped to 42 years, so they have been life-threatening for younger and younger lives. One part of the older population was vaccinated so that they did not develop severe forms of disease, so fortunately so far less dead than in the previous wave, but there is no place for relaxation. If we want to return to normal living and working conditions, achieve a successful tourist season, there is no other way but to endure, adhere to epidemiological measures and split the population as soon as possible. And we're late for vaccination. The European Commission has scheduled, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has scheduled. 471 480 doses of vaccines of all manufacturers arrived in the Republic until 3 days ago, which is 14 doses per 100 inhabitants. 358 976 doses of the vaccine have been used. With one dose, 8.9% of the population was vaccinated and with two doses, barely 2.2% of our citizens. Almost least in the EU. We are worse than Latvia and Bulgaria. By the end of March, 1.5 million doses were to be delivered, so 750,000 citizens were to be vaccinated with both doses, that the government had made all preparations. In order to divide 70% of the 3.2 million adult population, therefore older than 18 years, Croatia should obtain 4.4 million doses. After weeks of unpreparedness or not adopting a vaccination protocol, finally the first priority group of citizens, so healthcare professionals, elderly persons are placed in homes, and home workers are largely vaccinated. However, vaccination of the following groups, so chronic patients, subjects over 65 years of age. It's still going too slow. And when it comes to school workers, tourist workers, and then the others, at this rate the question of whether to fall at all. After weeks of doubt and rejection of a number of citizens to be vaccinated with AstraZenec, although the profession is constantly saying that the benefits of vaccination are multiplely greater than the risks are now hoped and resolved after the European Medicines Agency has confirmed the safety of the vaccine. Tourist workers should be vaccinated by the beginning of May at the latest. The state must also get enough tests on Covid-19 if we want to become a green tourist zone. About teaching staff not to talk. We were approached by many professors and teachers 50-60. who work with young people and graduates, so aren't they a priority group? Current data suggests that we ordered additional amounts of vaccines, but why did they not immediately order the quantities to which we were entitled according to the number of inhabitants? Despite legitimate criticism on the European Commission's account because it did not protect the production of vaccines in the EU territory from being exported extensively to other countries outside the EU, the delay in delivering vaccines in our country is not the result of unfair distribution and intransparency within the EU, but the fact that Croatia misrepresented the AstraZenece vaccine at the beginning by ordering the most precisely these amounts, this is the cheapest vaccine, costing EUR 2, while Pfizer costs EUR 12, and Moderna costs EUR 15, and we ordered less. Although AstraZeneca has decided not to make a profit on the vaccine but to sell it at a producer's price, and it is easier to transport than other vaccines, AstraZenec has just proved most problematic in respecting the vaccine delivery contract, and the EU has reserved the most of the Pfizer vaccines, and now we have joined the protests of several countries to more fairly divide the Pfizer vaccine. Croatia has booked almost 4 times less vaccines than it could. 23 million doses is what we could order according to the share of the population in the EU, and we ordered 5.2 million doses at the start. So, EUR 200 million is the value of the vaccines we could order, and we ordered for EUR 50 million. The remaining 15 million doses we did not deprive have been collected by interested and insecure EU members, so I ask the Government of the Republic of Croatia if it is doing a Cost-Benefit analysis that is constantly mentioned during the pandemic? On the one hand, money invested in vaccines, protective equipment and tests, on the other hand, the health of the nation, the economy, the tourist season from which we expect much and not prepared. You're government on the move. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u27295	Thank you. The presentation of the position of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns will now be the work of Mr Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u27351	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I listen to my colleague Mandaric from HDZ praise the government says Standard & Poors, honey and milk flows and mentions again those famous 24 billion euros from which we received, you know how many fellow Mandaric? Zero, zero, we got nothing. And you know when Andrej Plenkovic started boasting about those 24 billion euros? In February last year, last year in February. Now it's the month if I'm wrong about March and it's the end of March, but it's 2021, and it was 2020. So Croatia is about the economy of misery and misery, the state of social cases, the countries of the completed, blocked people who collect bottles in containers. It is Croatia, not some kind of wrinkled figure that gives some kind of Standard & Poors. My people, do we live in the same country? So you don't have to take this time for a free speech, there's Plenkovic putting you in the Parliament, stop there, don't say it rather than say it's wonderful for us. It's my right to say nothing personal. Just two more short themes. One topic again is our dear Zoran Milanovic, who sent one writer to all MPs and complained that Zlata Djurdjevic would not see the light of day. There are HDZs who also voted against Zlata Djurdjevic, but not because they are against Zlata Djurdjevic but because, at this point, Andrej Plenkovic needs one play, HDZ needs a play. You will see when your boss tells you the opposite, but Croatian sovereigns have been and will remain against the person, and concrete, but also against all other world-like persons such as Mrs. Djurdjevic, one of the globalist left neo-liberal world-on-airs to act as one of the delicate functions of the Supreme Court president. Unlike us sovereigns who we were against, there were SDPs for, colleagues from some clubs were undefined, which is legitimate, you were also currently against, but that I promise you change when your boss tells you otherwise, but about that by that. Here I would still use time for a third topic, it is not wise to mix topics, but I must mention one subject that is related to my dear Sibenik, with my beloved city, my hometown. Sibenik is a song in stone, Sibenik is a town of fortresses, Sibenik is a town of thousands of rocks and just these fortresses have been being restored lately. Some have been restored to the joy of the Sibeniks, they can boast that I also personally have participated and contributed to the restoration of some fortresses, but one of these fortresses has been stuck in its restoration and this fortress has cost taxpayers today meaning in the City of Sibenik, it is hard for me to say now, and perhaps 20 million kuna more than planned. But you know why? Because the HDZ furniture headed by Zeljko Buric was not doing her job. The project was to be completed, and it is a project to restore the valorisation and arrangement of the fortress of St. Ivana 2019, the project was signed in 2016, but has not yet been completed. And due to delays in the price of the works, they jumped by around 20 million kunas that the City of Sibenik would have to co-finance, and it shouldn't have gone before. And now it's fantastic how specifically Mayor Buric is making a fool of himself, we would say in Sibenik, he's silent, even boasting that the fortress is being restored, and he's not saying that today is 2021. that two years late, and given the state of work that the fortress will be renewed for at least two years. So instead of three years, seven years will be renewed minimally, perhaps more. And nobody mentions that this fortress city budget that is not filled by this man, Mayor Željko Buric, but all citizens of the city of Sibenik will allocate 20 million kuna more for the restoration of the fortress. Well, I think this might even be in the crime category. If someone with their indolence, unhappiness, does not function damage the budget for tens of millions of kunas, so my people do, here's what you HDZ people think about this, is that okay? Well, it's not right, here's a colleague of HDZ's saying it's not right. Well, it's not right, so it's wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u27406	It's Mrs. Now. Rada Boric's turn will be the position of the Green-Left bloc's Green-Left Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u27407	... Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. [[Specially enabled.]] Since the start of the pandemic, Covid-19 experts around the world have warned of likely problems in the production and distribution of vaccines. The Croatian government and the competent health institutions have not been anticipating any of this, so the plan and the population split programme has turned into a political, public health, communication and moral crisis with the elements of the scandal. Natasa Škaricic, a well-known health expert and members of the New Left, says what causes it and what should be initiated that things may happen if they can. Due to blind obedience to the EU institutions that have scheduled to negotiate with vaccine producers, Croatia has become one of the most damaged countries in the amount of vaccines per 100 inhabitants as well as the number of displaced persons. In this situation there has been a seizure of vaccines for privileged people and the allocation procedure has proved corrupt, without any consequences for the entire chain of health care, crisis management and health institutions. The communication and reaction of competent institutions to the crisis, to the crisis of confidence in the vaccine, Astra Zeneca across the EU, has been completely missed and has led to further mistrust in public health. The Ministry of Health did not clearly communicate on the reasons for the decision of a large number of countries not to vaccinate Astra Zenec more than 65 years of age or in media publications on the side effects of this vaccine. Croatia today does not have a plan to supply vaccines to other producers who may be able to replace the deficit resulting from an uneven distribution of vaccines within the EU itself, which should be initiated. The requirement is primarily for the temporary suspension of the patent system for COVID-19 products, as long as the World Health Organization does not consider the danger of pandemic and collateral damage to the economy to be minimalised. This is the proposal first addressed by India and South Africa to the World Trade Organisation. COVID-19 monitors the phenomenon of vaccine nationalism and geopolitical races, which speaks of poor EU and COVAX countries' commitment to the initiative, aimed at the availability and fair distribution of vaccines to all countries. Since the production and supply of vaccines is largely financed by the public budgets of the EU countries, this is not only a public health problem, but also a huge hole in democratic procedure. The answer can be a requirement for all contracts with the pharmaceutical industry to be fully transparent, including data on vaccine development, results of clinical trials, the number of doses the countries received and the distribution criteria, the price of the vaccine, the patent rights of the manufacturer and their legal liability. None of the companies involved in the EU's vaccination programme have so far allowed the sharing of data with the third party. According to the available data, Pfizer will allow it 24 months. After completion of clinical studies, while Modern data publication was announced on request at the time the studies were completed. We remind you that the planned follow-up takes 2 years, which brings us to the end of 2022. All vaccines on the European market, the EU, received a conditional permit and placed on the market in such a situation, independent experts and institutions should monitor and evaluate the quality of the vaccine and the public should inform us of all collected data through one platform. The Ministry of Health and HALMED need independent EMA, evaluate data from Russian and Chinese vaccine manufacturers, so we find them available to Croatian public health or evaluate them as an option. All vaccinated in the territory of the Republic of Croatia should sign an information consent containing all the key information on vaccinations they are subject to, applied and instructions for monitoring efficacy and adverse reactions. Such a procedure is standard for most diagnostic and therapeutic procedures and in this case ensures full information at the general and individual level.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u27408	Thank you very much. We move to deliver a position on behalf of the club of representatives and independent representatives. She's the first one. Dalia Oreskovic, who will present the position of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club. She's gone. She's gone, she's losing her right. The second Mr. Davor Dretar will be the position of the House of Homeland Movement Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u27474	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. Why would it be simple when it can be complicated? Why is there so much to hear in the public appearances of our politicians about the earthquake of the affected areas of Banovina, about the city of Zagreb, and almost not a single word about the people of Krapina-Zagorje County? The last time I looked at the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia was written in it, everyone in the Republic of Croatia has the right and freedom regardless of his race, skin color, sex, language, religion, political or other belief, national or social origin, property, birth, education, social position or other characteristics. They're all equal before the law, and you won't believe it. The same words stand there today. So why are the citizens of the second order, ladies and gentlemen, Zagorka and Zagorci? Does not the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia apply to them? Is there any other document worth it to them? Are residents of the village Slani Potok, places in the municipality of Gornja Stubica and other earthquakes affected by the Krapina-Zagorje County, perhaps less valuable? I'm aware that the Banovina earthquake was even more devastating than it was a year ago, but let's not measure other people's trouble, for everyone's misfortune is the biggest, for everyone's cross is the hardest. Three days ago, on Sunday, I visited the people of Salt Creek and talked to them. Let me give you their messages and be their voice. Joseph’s house was built on a crossroads, activated a year ago in an earthquake and further shaken by earthquakes in December. Joseph wants to replace the land, he would agree to a replacement apartment, but things don't move out of place. New apartments in my county are being built slowly or by no means, so there is no solution for Joseph right now. Katici began to wake up when the office of assistance for earthquake victims opened, but days, weeks and months passed, no answers came from the Office, for Katica's solutions still gone. Nicole is the wife of the Croatian defender, currently a single mother with a seriously ill child, and the earthquake took away her four walls. She lived and worked in Switzerland, imagine, the moment she spoke to them, they approved her help and sent it to her. Nicole is currently paying for the sub-citizenship herself, living on her work and on Swiss responsibility to her people, but Croatia has no solution for her. I will also show you the answer to several parliamentary questions from the Minister of Spatial Planning, Construction and State Property. The questions were asked on February 15th, the answer arrived on the 10th of this month. Aside from a few general answers, which I can say you'd get from Mrs. O'Donnell. The marice that sells cheese and cream on the market is one of the key answers that it stands in, related to the possibility of releasing 20% of the payment of refurbishment etc. The Republic of Croatia provides 100% funding for the construction reconstruction of family homes in the areas of units of regional self-government for which the Government of the Republic of Croatia declared a disaster. The next request of the people with whom I have spoken, as well as the personal assessment of the situation, from this place I call and ask the Government of the Republic of Croatia to declare disaster after the earthquake of the affected areas of Krapina-Zagorje County. Yesterday, the same people were visited by the mayor of Kolar, Mr. Bacurin from the Fund for Reconstruction, Mayor Goskočić and the head of Krizmanic and Milic, and it is good that they came. In an effort to get people back to their homes as soon as possible, they must not be looked at by party or any other division. The fact is, the solutions are still gone. Why would it be simple when it can be complicatedly valid for the Ppće hospital Zabok, a county hospital, popularly called Bračak. At that hospital in the 21st century, the mammographer's been broken for a year. The workers perform two hundred radiological examinations a day on a single device. Competitions for the purchase of magnetic resonance devices worth 7.5 million kunas fall one after the other, the device, there are no more two years since the first competition was opened. Why are they falling? So why would it be simple when it can be complicated? The purchase of such an expensive device is being fought by two large world companies and one constantly destroys competitions because the creators in Krapina-Zagorje County obviously wrote them for the benefit of the other. So another beautiful shame and an indication of how things look in Croatia, as well as in the Krapina-Zagorje public procurement. Why would it be simple if it could be complicated? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u27475	Thank you. Mr. Marin Mandaric will speak on behalf of the HDZ Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u27650	Thank you, Mr. Vice President HS. On behalf of the HDZ Club today, I feel the need to actually talk about the fact that we witness every day a variety of opinions, criticism, views from various sides of our country's assessments, what state we should be, where we are today compared to the last 30 years, whether the Government of the Republic of Croatia is doing well, whether we are doing well. But here, in the sea of these opinions and views, I would have singled out one that we could see yesterday, which is actually the opinion of Standard and Poor's, a renowned international agency that deals among other things with making a report on the credit ratings of individual, individual states. The theoretical credit rating of a particular country actually means the degree of risk that a country may or may not settle its debts and obligations in respect of those prescribed deadlines. But in a broader sense, in this data or level of credit rating, the credit rating of a particular country, in fact, is summed up in a general state. So it can actually cheer us in the latest Standard and Poor's report, which has kept RH BB below stable, with stable prospects for a future period, and so they confirm actually that projected economic growth that is very similar to the economic growth that the government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission predicts at over 5% of GDP growth at the annual level. The Standard and Poor's also finds that Croatia today is a stable state, not only financially and economically but also politically, and politically, but also from a security point of view. It didn't happen on its own, I'll remind you only Croatia is all there by 2012-2013. Had a credit rating that was at investment level. After that, at the end of 2012 and in early 2013, rating agencies are slowly starting to lower our credit rating and it falls to that level called unpopular, but quite rough, in the garbage level and there our credit rating is held until 2019. We don't happen to be in 2019. The credit rating rose and again came to investment level. That was actually preceded by 4 years. The hard work on responsible, serious and consolidated fiscal policy led by the HDZ government, Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic and Finance Minister Zdravko Maric, who, with a strong reduction of public debt, had finally been given the opportunity to see that our budget could also be in surplus. The surplus of the state budget is something that we all thought was just some kind of theoretical and economic category, that in practice it doesn't exist, but we had a chance to see a few years after the state budget surplus of the Republic of Croatia. And these are some preconditions that helped our credit rating from that garbage level to the level of investment in 2019. Today we have confirmation that we are on a good path, that we have stable forecasts and everything that is ahead actually gives us hope that in the future we will only grow and that we can expect that our credit rating on that scale will grow more and more. Of course, tax reforms have also contributed to this on several occasions that have been going on for the past few years, which have also strongly encouraged GDP growth. Of course, in this time the covid crisis and all these measures that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is suffering about preserving jobs and supporting business, I will remind only, almost 10 billion kunas if we calculate contributions, almost 14 billion kuna, actually pumped by state intervention in the Croatian economy. If these were good decisions, good policies, here shows now actually this Standard & Poors rating report. What we should be working on in the future, we know that, but here they are, in fact, confirming a strong turn to European funds, turning strongly through the National Recovery Plan and the responsibility of national reforms. We need to be stronger in this, responsible, serious and precise matter of how we use these over 24 billion euros that we are offered, about how successful we are in using this money will depend on the movement of our credit rating in the future. I am convinced that we will do this well and that in a few years we will have credit ratings that are at the level and other EU countries where we actually belong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u27651	Thank you, too. And now the position of the Club of Representatives of the Mosta will be Mr. Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u27718	Thank you very much. It is known to all that the Government of the Republic of Croatia long ago raised its hands from Dalmatia and that it was forgotten. I can specify 2 examples now pre-election i.e. They can't even be called candidates, but potential candidates are mayoral or as the HDZ candidate in Split announces that the train for Split means there will be twice as many lines, double the lines towards Split – Zagreb than before and took pictures with the minister. And now this potential candidate to be mayoral candidate is pictured and published, but the reverse is the condition. Turned off the night line Zagreb – Split, fast train, the only night line, as much as it is slimy, disgusting, vomiting, lying, lurking, muddy. Vice Mayor Split is specifically and thoroughly lying. Another case, the other day, that they were at the health minister of that gentleman's when the ban, when these measures are eating, must not be touched two metres from each other he is photographed with estradial stars and that car on social networks, in which case, Beroš, is called Beroš from Hvar where the prime minister is from. Says the independent home of health in Makarska, Split-Dalmatia County, the largest county.../incomprehensible/... home of health, half a million people or one and now before the election says an independent home of health. Ante Sanader and the mayor of Makarska, who are frauds, which is spit-in-the-face of Dalmatia. For years, when the birthplace closed in January 2010, in 2003.../incomprehensible/... home to the health of the largest county as long as the Ličko-Senj County has 4 home health and let. Dubrovacka 4 which is much smaller than Split-Dalmatia, other counties, Sibenik-Kninska and some, and here di is.../incomprehensible/... and who Ante Sanader is going, the undertaker of health and now promises Makarska. However, my Cetina province of 50,000 inhabitants more than the entire Lika-Senj County does not have an independent home of health. The petitions of 2009, the birthing protest abolished, came to the alka to paint the abolished birthplace, what like the likes of Sinjska alka, the stationary abolished, the women died in the ranks to enroll in the UZV breast, to enroll themselves at all, let alone come to order mostly die, unfortunately. When this independent home of health, Ante Sanader, I'm sorry he's not here. He who as mayor, he Petric and this team failed to call himself, so we had to collect petitions, was Minister Darko Milinović now in that party Lipo jell, abolished all the birthplace in Imotski, the stationary in Makarska, and now 20 days before the election there is the mayor of Makarska friend Mate Junovic who is digging through our beach all the way down without any remorse.../incomprehensible/... and now says we will open up. It's so sleazy, I can't understand that so many people can be rude to their people and corrupt. The candidate, for a possible candidate to be mayoral candidate for HDZ Split, is taking pictures with the minister and says two lines will start. How do you describe it? Is that spitin' in people's faces? You had a government four years ago in pre-election time, two billion kuna projects. You know how many of them you've made? It's not good. It's not good. The only thing we serve as an exploitation field for you, but it's a huge dissatisfaction for the people, so I think in this campaign, you should look at these guys who take pictures with the ministers and just, I don't know at all throw up the people to it, it's catastrophic. People are disgusted by the politics of such moves, the loathsome, morbid and rude now promoted by this government along with possible candidates for mayoral candidates.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u27719	No more exhibitors of free positions and return to the Proposal for a Law on Seeds, fruit material and recognition of the variety of agricultural plants that is in the first reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41227	Here, good morning, colleagues and colleagues, we move on with our work. The first point of today's session is: - Proposal for a Seed Act, fruit material and recognition of agricultural plant varieties, first reading, P.Z.E. No. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Agriculture. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Here you go, Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41228	Thank you. On behalf of the Mosta Club, I'm looking for a 10-minute break under this harmful law that you still want our children to be guinea pigs, GMOs and unhealthy food. Instead of our seed being the indigenous seed we're going to grow, which we're going to keep, which we're going to develop here to our farmers, our PGs, hundreds of thousands of people who have stayed in the country impose new costs, produce seeds, some kind of calibration. I don't know everything you're gonna do. So who's gonna pay these people? So you see, in the world, people are fighting in the EU, so farmers, scientists, only in Croatia have signed 100,000 petitions. Among other things, a number of scientists, experts who warn that this is the last nail in the coffin of Croatian agriculture. Well, you can't make native seeds now, you can't actually pick up our peasant, our O.P.G.V., a man who lives hard in these times, mostly in times of crisis, how important self-sufficiency is. Well, I don't know how you came up with this, and I can't figure out why the worst agriculture minister hasn't come here today since the Croatian state. Why isn't it about such an important law? where is the seed being debated? I'm asking you colleagues and colleagues, don't back this bill, out of the majority, and please once again, let the minister come here and explain who ordered her to work for multinational companies, for Monsanto and a team that wants to destroy domestic producers. We can't let this happen. Once again I call on the Minister of Agriculture to dare come before us parliamentary representatives And the farmers who are here in front of the building that are protesting. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41229	In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. In 293b, I'd like to give you a break, Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Dear Secretary of State, Tugomir Majdak, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41230	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable parliamentary MPs, respected parliamentary representatives. Agricultural reproductive material is the basis of agricultural production and the first link in the food production and supply chain. Quality seed and fruit material is important for agricultural production. Seeds and fruit material as strategic products for the design of each production and initial link in each food production must be sufficient, safe and quality. The draft law regulates the production, placing on the market of agricultural reproductive material of the following groups and species of plants: cereals, feed plants, tails, vegetables, potatoes, olives and... Plants, vines, bottles and adornment plants. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The system of production and placing on the market of agricultural reproductive material is prescribed by EU directives, so-called marketing directives based on international protocols to ensure that the production of agricultural reproductive material is multiplied and placed on the market uniformly in all countries. The agricultural reproductive material shall be placed on the market prior to the certification or control process in production, certification of the production of agricultural reproductive material and quality systems based on international methods to ensure the coherence of materials intended for domestic and international markets. The direct objective of certification is to ensure that farmers and other users are supplied with agricultural reproductive material that has the appropriate sort identity, leniency, cleanliness and health regularity or is free from harmful organisms. This draft bill defines the competent authorities in the implementation of the law or the Ministry of Agriculture, the State Inspectorate including the phytosanitary and agricultural inspection and the Croatian Agriculture and Food Agency. Provisions of the marketing directives relating to the production and the situation of the agricultural reproductive material market shall be transposed. It allows for the adoption of certain national varieties lists whose agricultural reproductive material will only be able to be marketed in the area of the Republic of Croatia and thus enable the recovery of production from the market for indigenous varieties now stored in a plant gene bank. The adoption of a national programme for the conservation and sustainable use of plant genetic resources will define the detailed activities to be carried out by participants of that national programme in order to preserve indigenous, traditional varieties and store them in a plant gene bank. The system of entry of varieties in varieties shall be improved, as agricultural reproductive material must belong to a variety registered or registered in one of the varieties lists when placed on the market. In order for the variety to be registered or entered in the variety list, certain tests carried out by the competent authorities must pass. There are also certain differences in the entry of seed varieties from varieties of fruit material, and this law has been developed in the process of recognising and maintaining them. It is possible to place on the market seeds produced for export if produced according to the OECD... certification, and due to some circumstances it has not been exported. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The production of seeds according to this international certification scheme is identical to the production of seeds according to marketing directives. Furthermore, exports or imports of agricultural reproductive material are ensured as valuable in terms of quality and method of production as in the Republic of Croatia. In order to ensure that agricultural reproductive material imported is identical to the quality material produced on the territory of the Republic of Croatia and the EU, an equivalent system is established. At EU level for seeds, equivalence is granted at Council and Parliament level on the basis of decision 17 of 2003. on the equivalency of the field crop inspection carried out in third countries on seed crops and on the equivalence of seeds produced in third countries, whereas for fruit material the system of equivalence is located in the Member States themselves. The term ‘seed from the agricultural holding’ is introduced. Such seed will have to be processed by suppliers listed in the register of farm seed suppliers as producers in order to ensure the minimum presence of harmful organisms in accordance with the rules in the field of plant health. The proposed law and provisions do not restrict the use of domestic seed for their own purposes for non-commercial purposes, nor restrict principles to organic production. Sublaw will provide for an exemption, i.e. those which, for small amounts of seed, will not be obliged to carry out the addition of seed produced on their own holding. In particular, those provisions will include producers that grow, for example. war crops on large surfaces and enter the support system as they pose a potential threat to the spread of harmful organisms of diseases and weeds. In the case of non-competitional use of seeds or exchanges at fairs, production of small agricultural holdings, exchanges between individuals or groups have no restrictions in this respect, no certification, no control of such seeds. Furthermore, an exemption for the production of organic heterogeneous agricultural reproductive material to be placed on the market pursuant to Regulation 848 of 2018 shall be laid down. on organic production and labelling of organic products. The closer defines the supplier's responsibility for the quality of seeds and fruit material placed on the market, which was currently not well regulated by the applicable law. The creation of a descriptive variety of lists is introduced on the basis of Polish attempts to facilitate the selection of seed and planting materials for farmers, as the problem is also the selection of agricultural reproductive material which will deliver the best results in the climate conditions of the Republic of Croatia. Following today's debate, we have a draft proposal for a Seed, Fruit Material Act and recognition of a variety of agricultural plants involving most of the objections and proposals received by the state administration body, as well as debates at the working bodies and meetings of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. For that system of production and certification of seeds and fruit material, this proposal does not impose any new restrictions on the law, and we believe that the application of this law will improve the existing system and ultimately enable farmers to have the best quality in the markets, or that the plants they receive with their seed or planting will show the characteristics by which they are recognizable. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41231	We have several replicas, the first representative is Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41232	Once again, I call on the Minister, the worst minister of agriculture, to come here to the parliamentary representatives and farmers who are ahead to say why this law imposes on the production of seeds of local indigenous, who has thought of it, who will pay the peasant now that we import 3 billion euro of food products, when the Croatian village is empty? Well, the seed is a fundamental human right, so don't do it to the Croatian village and the peasant. So you have hundreds of thousands of signatories of petitions, hundreds of thousands of OPGs, all that's in Croatia in the village against this is law. This is a strategic national interest. So who wrote this for you? Monsanto? Who wrote to you? So where is this minister? Where is she now hiding when it comes to Croatian seed that we would like to protect, promote local domestic sales? It imposes costs and prohibits domestic seed market if not completed I'm calling for the secretary to come. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41233	Next replica Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41234	It is a shame that the minister of this disputed law hid herself in a mouse hole and did not dare to come to the agenda of the HS debate. It shows first of all that she herself knows that she is wrong to propose such a law. By law like this, you declared war on small Croatian farmers. The victims of that war will be all of us because who will be able to afford the flash to serve her to his child once that same flash has to be done. Croatia has only 5 vegetable species. Their breeding depends on enthusiasts. This is what these enthusiasts are gonna stop working on. What is your motivation to introduce seeds from the agricultural lordship as a new category in this law, and this does not prescribe any European provision?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41235	You have a replica, an answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41236	Thank you. Here's a thank you, esteemed representative. Therefore, small producers, hobbyists and gardeners shall be exempt from the obligation to do so on the basis of art. The 16th Amendment of the Law. As also defined in the proposal for a law, producers of seeds of preserved varieties, varieties from the national variety list and varieties for which no entry in the official lists is required, as well as organic producers excluded from the application of art. 16 of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41237	We have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure, the first one is Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41238	You have announced that you will have certain sublaws, Art. 238th Demeanor of Parliamentarians, make exceptions. How, though, will you prepare potatoes for example? You cannot make this law enforceable at all, it remains a dead letter on paper, and as such destroys the few remaining Croatian agricultures.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41239	This wasn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure, it was your replica, and that's why you have a warning. Next breach of the Rules of Procedure, Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41240	Thank you very much. He's been injured. 238, where you speak a series of lies. The law stipulates exactly what the seed is. Calibrating, piling, testing, plant protection, packaging, flombering, it costs all of our little OPGs, if they can't make it they can't have their own goods on the market, they can't have their own goods on the markets, you're picking up and destroying the native peasant and calling again. The worst Minister of Agriculture [[Intruder: Time.]] He comes to the Parliament... [[Intruder: Time.]] [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41241	This wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. And you have a warning. Next replica, Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41242	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Bulj, colleague Selak Rasdic, so don't attack the minister. Well, she's working hard, so it's hard to justify the motto, "We shut down one drive every week," so it really takes effort. And as far as the law is concerned, I can understand that we are prescribing for seed placed on the market, but for seeds that we will sow, or farmers sow in our own garden or in our own field, it is out of their minds. I'm just going to tell you in plastic terms what other costs are that go into his calculations. So you have to take that seed, you have to pack it, you have to take it to the place where the finishing will be done, so you have the cost of packing, the cost of logistics, you have to pay for the work, then you have to pay the package again and drive back to your economy. So we've collected and made invaluable production, and why? If I'm going to shine on my own country for my own good, what's it doing?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41243	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41244	Here, as I am, thank you, esteemed representative of the matter. So small manufacturers, hobbyists and gardeners, but also environmental producers. 16 are therefore excluded from seed processing.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41245	The next replica is the distinguished representative of Romana Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41246	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honor, Secretary of State. Treatment of seeds involves drying, cleaning, calibration, plying, treatment of plant protection products, packaging, filling and marking, and this process can be done by a legal and natural person who is registered and registered for completion in the register of seed suppliers, which requires less farmers not so little cost. What I'm interested in, after work, is who will and where will take care of this waste because there is no letter in your bill of law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41247	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41248	Thank you, esteemed MPs, for your inquiry, so it's no waste, I don't know what kind of waste you're talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41249	The next replica is the esteemed representative Danica Baricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41250	Thank you very much, Vice President. Here, dear Secretary of State, your opening statement shows that finally in this law, it is a good form of administration of procedures for the national variety list and administrative and cost-effectiveness that paves the way for appropriate collection and potential commercialisation of national varieties that have practically disappeared from use. I wonder if it's through the ankle. 16 Just as we heard earlier, the definition of seed from the agricultural holding was intended to restrict the Ministry of Protection and Exchange of Seeds in Economics and thus do not recognise the work of informal organisations on the association, and I must certainly commend that the law almost uniquely supported the entire seed profession and the scientific community.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41251	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41252	Thanks for asking. Yes, this law or bill of law is supported by a professional and scientific public or by an institution related to a national variety list, that is, we want to improve the possibility of those varieties which are almost neglected by the current law or any previous laws and promote through one simpler process of certification of the accessibility of these varieties, it is traditional and indigenous varieties, and on the other hand, we are exempt from the law. 16 made it possible for both small producers, or hobbyists, gardeners and all those producing seed for their own purposes to be excluded from the provisions.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41253	The next replica is the esteemed representative Ivan Kirin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41254	Dear Vice President, Your Honor, the law needs to be read with care and understood, not only segmentally commented. Whether or not small producers of these organic seeds will be exclusive to the provisions of the production, whether it will be absolutely so or be determined by the type of cultures that are attacked by pests that are not or which are harmful to humans and animals because we know Tilletia spp, or who are found, which is one of the most widespread diseases of strata grains and which is spread to the infected seed, and the breed of infected cereals is toxic to humans and animals, therefore, the need for the processing of such and similar seeds, of the agricultural holding, and thus is agreed by the profession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41255	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41256	Thank you for your inquiry. Yeah, on the one hand, Art. 16 defines certain exceptions which I have already mentioned, and exactly the process of supplementing seeds leads us to a healthier, cleaner, or freed seed by the phenomenon... because it is precisely this process of finishing up and in the case of the common occurrence of the disease Tilletie, i.e. the smelly lay of wheat, where it is based on the reconnaissance in the last 3 years we have a frequency of occurrences, and it is dangerous, as you yourself stated... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it's dangerous for people's health, and by this process of finishing, we're suppressing and preventing the spread of this disease, or we're bringing it down to a certain minimum. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41257	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Marija Selak Rasudic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41258	Art. 238, demeaning parliamentary deputies. Art. 16 does not define the exceptions you listed, Art. 16 only says there will be exceptions which the minister will prescribe under his rule in paragraph 4. The laws are there to be clearly and unambiguously written, not to make any promises later on, perhaps with certain rules. The laws are that they serve the people who will use it, that all of this you state would not exactly be so many small farmers rebelling.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41259	This was not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, it is clear to you, and I am the basis for Article 240(1) to give you a reminder by taking away the words. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41260	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, we already have one to call the law contingent where we comply with different EU directives. And every time we point out that you explain to us that that's how it has to be, that we coordinate. In principle, I think it is good for Croatia's legislation to be harmonised, but for the first time in this law, we have something that other EU members do not recognise, which is the concept of seed from the agricultural economy. They don't even recognize the proposed seeds. What happened? What was your motive now? What was your reason? Why, then, in one sentence of the reason why you opted for such a way of defining the law is something that has caused a great deal of opposition among other things to all of our fellow citizens who recognize that this is the problem? What was the reason, what motive? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41261	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41262	Thank you, thank you, esteemed representative, Dark Tarritash, for asking. Therefore, individual Member States have the right, the national right to regulate the system in order to make it more quality and that is exactly what this bill intended. So, to regulate a better quality system and bring on the one hand more productivity in our agricultural production, on the other hand, to prevent the occurrence of disease, the spread of weeds, or to ensure the health of seeds.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41263	The next replica, the esteemed representative, Mariana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41264	Thank you very much. The Honorable State Secretary on Seeds depends on food production, our food security and national sovereignty accordingly. Given that Croatia is free from GMOs, where I have worked for 10 years in the non-governmental sector together with the scientific and professional community to ensure that all counties are declared free, that the seed of genetically modified seeds and for experimental purposes is banned, I am interested in the State Secretary whether this law will continue to remain in force. So, I wonder if even after the adoption of this law Croatia will remain a country free of genetically modified organisms and will such seeds continue to be banned? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41265	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41266	So, exactly the Republic of Croatia is in accordance with Article 26b. Directive 2001. Parliament and the Council on deliberate introduction into the environment of genetically modified organisms and repealing Council Directive 2020 of the 1990s have declared the exemption for the cultivation of genetically modified organisms throughout the state area, thus producing, placing on the market and importing genetically modified agricultural reproductive material and applying the provisions of specific rules governing the treatment of GMOs regulated the GMOs Act on GMOs. So we're still a clean country from applying GMOs in practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41267	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ruzica Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41268	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, Article of Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament 177. By reading this proposal, we do not find any provision that points to harmonisation, but there are provisions that introduce new concepts and thus collect production for our farmers, and Europe does not ask us to do so at all. So I ask you to explain to us exactly what part of us are in line with EU rules when it comes to the Seed Law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41269	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41270	Here, so I have already cited a series of provisions in the section, which, in this proposal of the Seed and Fruit Act, and on the other hand about our own, our commitment to further national regulation define what will be a qualitative step towards our agricultural production, for the self-sufficiency of Croatian production, we have done so in connection with these regulations. Finally, we have excluded certain small producers, hobbyists, or organic producers from the process of processing, that is, the certification of their seeds.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41271	The next replica, the esteemed representative Goran Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41272	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, I'm sorry that the Minister is named here as the worst minister in history. I am not her lawyer, but I was present at the meetings of the Committee on Agriculture where indeed Mrs. President Petyr and all of us who are members of the Committee have realized that this Article 16 can produce such reactions as can be heard here today in the assembly. I am sure and believe that this Article 16 to the second reading will harmonize with which reading at the end of that article will then be satisfied and all those who may at the moment either not understand or have not finished reading the law, but the explicits will probably then be written and family farming will be mentioned.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41273	Thank you, esteemed representative, yes, we are in an intensive public dialogue, and thus also representatives of the agricultural sector including small agricultural producers. And regarding Article 16, we will further define it on the one hand and the Regulation, and on the other hand, and explain how the exemption will be applied. And regarding the minister, there have been a series of questions or objections as to why the minister is not here, she is at a meeting of the Council of Ministers for Agriculture and Fisheries, so she defends Croatian interests in agriculture in Brussels and stands for the welfare of Croatian agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41274	Next replica, the distinguished representative Marina Opačak Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41275	Thank you. Well, here I am, almost 60 days ago, referred a written question to a minister who I have not yet received an answer to today, and I am sorry that she is not here today, and what I see is that this bill brings new restrictions to producers who use domestic seeds in their economies because the concept of seed from the family economy is introduced, defined as a seed produced for their own needs, which is forbidden to market and which does not exist in European laws in this context, which unequivocally means that this proposal is completely unnecessarily harsh to our farmers. It is clear that these provisions lead to the loss of domestic varieties, and if this law is passed, many citizens will forget about the taste of real homemade vegetables. With everything our farmers are going through, we can't let this happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41276	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41277	Thank you. Here, since in most of your question, I have already answered, I will only conclude in the end that no, this law will not bring down the use of our indigenous or traditional varieties or restrictions in the biodiversity of the same in the Croatian fields.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41278	Next replica, Honorable representative of William Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41279	Thank you. Secretary of State Majdak, I wonder if your insistence on this article. 16 and especially in terms of "seed for the Agricultural Economy", will it be your contribution to working on a European law that has not yet been passed, I don't see why we are chasing so far forward, will you suggest this ingenious solution that has raised so many people, Europe? It is interesting that only a few of these seed societies, they recognize and praise your law in all respects because they see it being done, they are fighting the emergence of illegal, illegal practices of performing home work that withdraws a number of illegal activities, from illegal activity, illegal use of pesticides, work on black, non-compliance with environmental protection provisions, protection of labour, non-payment of taxes... Is that why you put an ankle on. 16?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41280	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41281	Thank you, esteemed representative Matula. So this is not about the work of a scientific or professional public that comes only from the brand of shifting or seed houses, but from the scientific public. Therefore, the agronomic professions that supported this law in the direction of increasing productivity, protection related to seed production, therefore weeds or harmful organisms, and in the function of health, stronger health regulation of seeds, and all this is related to better productivity because we know that if it is finished, we are talking about large productions, then contributes up to 30% of the higher production, or provides adequate income for the agricultural economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41282	Next replica, Honorary Representative Zeljko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41283	Your Honor, Secretary of State, I don't drink at all. 16th like all others, Art. Article 19(7), “For the quality of the seed, it is responsible for the supplier of seeds that first places it on the market of the Republic of Croatia and legal and natural persons dealing with the trade of seeds when the seeds are kept in conditions that do not ensure the maintenance of its quality.” I ask you, the shifts from the Netherlands, the supplier brought it in, sold it to me today, I sow it and it does not appear right. How will we determine that it has been kept in inadequate conditions? And I have to ask, which fool wrote it here, right? I have to be rude. Because no one thinks about what's written in the laws, protects farmers, destroys traders and destroys our agricultural producers. How will this article be implemented and how will we determine that it has not been maintained under adequate conditions? That's what I want to know, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41284	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41285	Thank you, esteemed representative, Lenart, for your question. So this bill and the article that you have stated, more precisely, defines the responsibility of everyone in the chain of production and sales, so the law proposes that this bill should bear the responsibility of the one who first places seed on the market of the Republic of Croatia or the seed trader who puts it on the market, each under his own responsibilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41286	The last replica, the distinguished representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41287	Dear Secretary of State, I must admit that I am sorry to see you here unwisely defending yourself and you are here cannon meat to protect the minister and one bad law and you know it. And as carefully as I have listened to you, you have been asked 15 similar questions related to the article. 16, I'd sum it up like this. You agree that this article is not right, right, that it is bad and you will still be bad because of it regardless of the fact that you agree, you will still adopt this law and later you will make a possible exception with some rule. So you've agreed that this article is bad, that it's bad, and no matter what, you're still defending this law. Here's what I have to admit, it's really not clear, here's an explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41288	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41289	Thank you, esteemed representative Zekanovic, for your question. So it's probably not true that he was unmistakably defended when you yourself said a series of explanations and explanations that I've said so far about art. 16 and I won't repeat them. So, this is the first reading, we have conducted a public dialogue and including producers, including small producers, organic producers and such a proposal goes into first reading, will be further arranged and descriptively related to the implementation of Art. 16 through a rule that we also in some way announced by this law and communication with the general public. So, nothing is disputed here, and as such, the ministry has proposed a series of exceptions through Article. 16 of which you are also now, which you mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41290	Thank you, Secretary of State. We don't have any more replicas. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Maria Jelkovac, chairman of the Legislative Committee. She's gone. Dear Representative Marijana Petir, Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41291	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President HS. State secretaries with associates, MPs and deputies. At the 16th session of the Committee held on 11 February 2021. It is pointed out that farmers producing seed for their own use are equated with seed dealers and has been warned that there is no analysis of the economic effects of this proposal and insufficient capacity for the production of seeds. In addition to the concept of seed from the holding and the production of seeds, it is asked about the harmonisation of art. 16th and 17th with the European legal framework and contracts that Croatia is signatories to. The law requires the provision of how the inherited and exchanged seeds should not be subject to the certification and processing procedure, and the obligation to process seed for their own use should be brought into line with the Regulation on the processing rights of the plant variety of the Community. As regards wheat, it should not apply to vegetable seed, and in particular not to seed potatoes. Legal, rather than sublaw, exemptions should be prescribed for small agricultural producers and should be protected from the poor quality of seeds by clearer declaration of seeds. The entry on the national varieties list should be simplified in order to make the indigenous seed market interesting and to allow for the informal preservation of this seed. With the view that this act will introduce order in seed production, it has also been warned of a possible monopoly of large seed producers. The law requires a clear provision for a ban on the use of GMOs. The proposer replied that she understood the requirements for more precise exemption regulation and promised to prescribe, in the final proposal, the exemption of small agricultural holdings from the obligation to repair and certification of seeds. In the Republic of Croatia, 60 authorised seed growers were registered, and the same could not be a monopoly, she said, noting the willingness to further flexibilise seed processing in cases where possible. Following the discussion, the Committee decided to propose to the majority of the votes HS the following, the proposal for a seed law, fruit material and recognition of the variety of agricultural plants, objections and proposals to be presented in the debate shall be submitted to the applicant in order to prepare the final proposal of the Seed, Fruit Material Act and to recognise the variety of agricultural plants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41292	Thank you. Representative Zekanovic, please. Following the debate by clubs, the first team of HDZ representatives and distinguished representative Marijana Petir are the first.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41293	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of HS. State secretaries with associates, MPs and deputies. The interest in the Seed Law proposal is justifiably great, so I hope that today's debate will also be constructive because the topic we are discussing is extremely important. The seed depends on the production of food, food safety and, accordingly, the national sovereignty of our country. Therefore, we intend to support the good solutions provided for in this law through the debate, but to make proposals that would eliminate the ambiguities and nomotechnical indeterminations that primarily relate to certification and supplementation of seeds, given that this is the first reading, which means that there is sufficient time to consider all remarks and suggestions and to include improvements in the law until the second reading. The impression gained from the public debates so far, but also from the parliamentary working bodies, is that our goal is all the same, but obviously in different ways we see the way in which we will achieve that goal. And our goal should be to protect and preserve our indigenous varieties, retain the possibility that small farmers can produce seed for their own needs, the goal of introducing order on the market, and improvements that will result in the growth of Croatian agricultural production, its productivity and competitiveness. This law will also create a national programme for the conservation and sustainable use of plant and genetic resources, which should give new momentum to activities to preserve plant genetic resources at national and international level, and the national variety list will allow for the return to production and placing on the market of old indigenous genotypes. We like to boast of our biodiversity and the large number of varieties we grow in our fields. In harsh debates, we often fight in this assembly for their preservation and we should continue to endure it, but not only with words but also with works because we have the wealth that preserved generations and generations of agricultural producers and guardians of varieties. It should therefore be made clear that the intensities of this law are not to prevent small producers from carrying out seed sowing from their own cultivation from non-registered materials, nor is this law intended to limit them in the placing on the market of fruit obtained from these varieties. The requirements of certification and supplementation of seeds will primarily apply to producers growing on large areas and entering the support system. Given the two interpretations that appear in the public space, we're in the position to do so. The 16th law should be nomotechnically arranged to make it clear that small producers are exempt from the obligation to certification and supplement seeds, such as, for example, a clear exemption for preserved varieties, indigenous and traditional varieties, as well as organic seed producers. We need to achieve clarity in the law in order to confirm our commitment that we want a law whose application will support the genetic diversity of traditional agricultural varieties, the survival of small agricultural economies and life in rural areas. Therefore, it is important to make clear and unambiguous regulation of the exemption from the obligation to certification and supplement seed for small economies. However, it is important to understand that, in addition to small producers producing seed for their own purposes, there are those producing seed for the market, and such seed must be produced under expert supervision and according to certification methods. The varieties on the market must be quality and recognizable, have strong and growth, be adapted to climate conditions and possess characteristics are known. All of this will enable farmers to be safe and guarantee good yields. This should be our focus when we start to discuss the availability and use of seeds in agricultural production, clearer regulation, placing on the market and importing certified agricultural reproductive material and the use of seeds, which will also provide the commercial, income side for farmers, should also be seen from the angle of possible negative impacts and dangers that leave seed to agricultural production and the environment as a source of possible plant diseases and potential pests. It is estimated that almost 20% of seeds in the structure of plant production in the Republic of Croatia are extremely low quality, and this is also associated with the decline in production, but also with the inability to calculate the seed standard. The production of seeds prevents the spread of diseases, weeds and harmful organisms, and, on the other hand, allows quality, high and stable offerings. As one of the reasons for the proposed amendments to this law, the danger of the occurrence of a disease of smelly sleep that not only attacks wheat but also attacks and barley, rye, tritical, and lots of grasses. The spread of diseases through the infection of agricultural cultures is not only a danger to plant species, but also to human and domestic animal health, but also to the appearance of weeds in our fields. In order to enable agricultural producers to use healthy and quality seed material produced on their own holding, the Seed Act is specifically referred to the so-called so-called so-called seed. The attic. In such cases, holdings for their own use may produce seed and use it on their holding, are not obliged to pass the seed certification process since the same seed will not be placed on the market, but should be processed, or treated with fungicides, in order to contain the spread of diseases and weeds. The obligation to apply the processing of its own seed will be agricultural producers in the support system. I'll remind him we suggested to be in art. 16 clearly state the exemption from the certification and completion of seed for small holdings and we believe that it is necessary in Article 16. 17 and 11 relating to the production of seeds and the obligation of producers, achieve flexibility in order to ensure that all are processed and that no costs resulting from the processing would be incurred which would ultimately accumulate the production of food. We must not be insignificant if we are to produce enough food at affordable prices for our citizens and thus reduce food dependence on imports. It must also be of no importance to us what seeds we sow. This law provides for the adoption of a national programme for the conservation and sustainable use of plant genetic resources which will define more detailed activities to be implemented in order to preserve indigenous traditional varieties and store them in a plant gene bank. The law will also allow the adoption of national varieties lists for agricultural reproductive material which will only be marketed in the field of the Republic of Croatia, which will allow us, by simplified procedure, to return to production and place on the market of indigenous varieties stored in a plant gene bank, which, I believe, is the ultimate goal for all of us here. Therefore, products from seeds of indigenous and traditional varieties will still be able to be bought in our markets, and additional protection for our indigenous products will also be given through the National Programme for the Conservation and Sustainable Use of Plant Genetic Resources, which includes representatives of associations, as well as representatives of farmers. It is precisely our farmers who play a key role in strengthening our national sovereignty through the creation of food security and, in cooperation with them, we need to create laws and design measures for the preservation and protection of seeds, food production and revitalisation of rural space. I expect the Ministry of Agriculture to include in the final draft laws these proposals we made on behalf of the club, relating to the creation of clarity, on the nomotechnical addition to art. 16, 11 and 17, therefore, which are closely related to the certification and production of seeds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41294	Thank you. The next debate is on behalf of the Club of Representatives Mosta, representatives Bulj and Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41295	The people who are watching this, you must know that this is a targeted policy against Croatian villages. All discussions conducted constructively, we can talk about the importance of seeds, the importance of domestic production, import lobbies, pests that have caused great damage to our village, peasants, of course, and the production of domestic food, healthy food. Of course, we also have to talk about self-sufficiency, 3 billion euros in imports of food products, while 700 thousand hectares of agricultural land are unprocessed. This law makes it clear. 17, 16 and 17 exactly describe what it means to be perfected. It collects seeds from our peasant, indigenous seed, and hundreds of thousands of peasants dealing with agriculture, the OPGs and scientists signed a petition, and that's basic human right, right to seed, according to the UN, by all conventions. However, this is an exclusive bargaining and destruction of Croatian villages and peasants because they will collect, with whom, where will the authorised developer have to do so? Who's gonna pay for that? After all, it's a lie and it's a lie that this will be the law when this law is passed that it will be able to be sold in the markets unless the seeds are finished. It's a lie. This is a law that favors large multinational companies, seed producers, of course something like Monsanto, and of course those who produce their products, products to treat from the example of glyphosate. I gave a personal law in the last term, a ban on GMOs, entirely except for medical purposes, 90 MPs didn't accept it then. But I hope now is in the process that you will accept it again, and not now with this law where there is no minister who is tribala here today on this bill, send a message to our village and peasants and the OPGs who are in trouble to explain to them that their seed and seed production and their products if the seed is not finished that they will not be able to sell it in the markets, in the shops, and import lobbys that we import, what they give us, from GMO products, uncontrollable products, from soy meat treated with glyphosate and similar harmful products. This is a question, do we want to make our children test rabbits? I once said this from this pay phone, but as the time goes by, they thought I was fantasizing something, but they'll make our kids taste rabbits and their harmful food, their modifications, and destroying domestic seeds and bans, this is literally a ban. It would have been more correct if you had written "the use of domestic seed is prohibited". And the secretary of state isn't here, and the secretary of state is keying his cell phone, and he's worried that they're dealing with Monsanto, I guess they're gonna sponsor them, the Secretary of State's worry about what they're protesting today, they're protesting people here. And you say that 17, read out loud articles 17, 16 and 17, you will see what it is to be done and who will pay for it. Who's gonna pay for that? Who's gonna pay for this? Tear this off, call the minister here, protect the peasants. Call the minister here, do not turn your head, but call the minister to join the Croatian peasant and village to tell us what is going on here, which is the purpose of destroying the native indigenous seed? Who is it that for the right to make our children taste rabbits, to be suitable for import lobbies in food production, in the production of seeds? Why don't we have a potato, a seed of our own, why would we be harassing our man or any other product, why? Why am I asking? Why didn't the secretary of state come in, why do I ask you when you stop typing, I see you've finally agreed, that you've even fallen asleep, maybe the contents were interesting, why are you destroying the local village, the native seed of an indigenous, domestic peasant? Stop it, I ask the minister to come here and tell the Croatian people why she destroys Croatian village and seed.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41296	Not many call this a stage without reason, unfortunately it is only a striking approach to one who attracts enough attention to the public and enables discussion of such important problems. So everyone who thinks that colleague Bulj might be too dramatic, that he's not being dramatic, that even people aren't engaged on these issues would hear nothing about them in public. I'll go back to the content of this bill. So, how do we even have a debate about this legislative proposal when I ask the question or replica after my colleague Majdak put out the draft proposal and I get the answer that everything has already been resolved, that the exemptions from Article are prescribed. 16. who is obviously controversial and most discussed in HS today, which is not true. So here's the truth. We have heard one promise here, and not one fact, and then I have to get a warning to point out and tell everyone the truth, which is that, in this legislative proposal, the exception that the Secretary of State has stated, which is here the scapegoat instead of the minister, is not in the law at all. In the law of Art. The 16th century of the 4th century is only prescribed that the minister will prescribe exceptions, so you wait, so you hope, and we will see. And what's said here is false and I find it embarrassing and it should be further emphasized. The Secretary of State could also say that he respected the proposals of various small producers who had taken up their feet and consulted almost all the parties who had given them the opportunity to point out the problems they found in this law and could say that he would prescribe exceptions, that this was only the first draft, that we would discuss the law together. No, he said it was already settled. If we're not going to tell the truth, then we underestimate each other, not to say something more ugly, and then we can't have a serious debate in this assembly at all. So, we're off to a bad start, so let's try constructively on the trail and on what fellow Petyr was saying together. Indeed, we aim at a serious bank of genes that today, at the level of Croatia, does not exist and our goal is for small producers to continue to produce without any additional cost that this law would probably impose on them. The question is, how much would it cost per kilogram, and the question is that some cultures can't even improve. I would like to remind you that Croatia produces only 5 vegetable species, potatoes, peppers, cabbage, flutter and garlic, everything else comes from imports, so when you ask on the salary if it is our place to know what it can even apply to. There are only a few varieties of each kind of farming, some of which are preserved varieties. They're nine out of 28 on the list. What would this law look like in practice? If you were to drive grain to dorad, you would probably go to Sibenik on condition that the company works and performs the service work, if not to go somewhere in Podravina. In 2018, the list lists only a few producers, and the question of how many are doing service work in the first place. If you have 200 to 300 kg of grain per hectare you can see what these are manipulative costs even unrelated to the very price of finishing. If you happen to have more countries and come out of the category of small OPG, the ministry in the media says that it would be between 50 and 100 hectares in a frame, then according to the text voted in the Government, you should wear those 20 kg of seeds of raspberries and salads that you grow for yourself because it is little determined towards the total surface. Unless you are skillful and report a divergence and salad to a new national variety list as an indigenous variety, but you will need to wait one year for them to perform the tests. You will find it difficult to find that seed in import in the meantime, and you may also have problems with neighbors because of registered varieties. There are a lot of these, but in this law, there are a lot of problems and issues about how small farmers will manage to turn this into a practice without a penalization that would make it impossible for them to continue production. This is why we ask that the law be clearly prescribed, not the sublegal acts to which these exemptions apply, and to allow small farmers to continue to act.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41297	The next debate is on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club of Representatives, the distinguished representative of Hrvoje Zeklanović.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41298	Dear Secretary of State, I don't know how much pay a man must have to have to come here for this pay phone and defend something he knows is wrong, even declares that it's wrong, and even his HDZ colleagues warn that it's wrong. And I really don't get it. I've got two lists here, so people can hear what's really going on. Ceric winter garlic, Istrian red garlic, Slavonic winter beans, Slavonic green peas, varazdin cabbage, ogulinian cabbage, Slavonic purple onion, viritarian it is otherwise paprika, pepperoni red, pepperoni green mild, pepperoni yellow people, peršin homemade leaves, tomato bračka called apple, Sibenik plum, hrpen ludbrski, then Istrian yellow onions, Istrian red onions, Turopolian onions, dubravish red onions, rural winter garlic, Zagreb's crystal summer salad, Trigiar early flowers, Dalmatian cove, Dalmatian goat garlic, homemade yellow carrots, domestic blue ducks, homemade eggplants, local leaves, Dalmatian ice cream, this salad is a salad. So this is what this is all about, these are seed varieties, mostly vegetable varieties, which, under this law, will no longer be able to be placed on the market under Article 16. But it's not all that black we have another list. This list is not in Croatian, and it reads like this.../The speaker speaks in a foreign language./...Now a bit in Hungarian.../The speaker speaks in a foreign language./... I don't know how to read Hungarian unfortunately.../The speaker speaks in a foreign language./... etc., etc., this second list is much larger, this list is much thicker, it is very many varieties that will be able to grow in Croatia uninterrupted. And Croatian varieties who cut hair. You know what's the saddest thing? That even Italians, Hungarians, Austrians touch this situation of ours because even they know of these Croatian indigenous varieties, know their value and want them to remain preserved. However, you pass one bill, and in that law there is this famous Article 16 that you say is not right. And then you're still defending this bill from this pay phone. So couldn't you have immediately begun to change this bill and passed one, this article and passed a normal law. You're talking about a possible exception. So one day if the minister is merciful, if she is allowed by her boss, Andrej Plenkovic, she will one day bring some kind of rulebook and make an exception. Couldn't it have been done right away? Well, of course it could. And then I, and at the beginning of the debate, pointed out that it's not easy for you here. You really are cannon meat. You've come here to defend something indefensible, and the minister is probably watching this debate now or on television, maybe she's biting her nails, but she's not biting her nails, because she's going to be a minister as long as A. Plenkovic wants to, or until we knock her down as an opposition. And what is the best thing, and it is pointed out by colleagues, we are, in fact, a little bit and we are in a hurry, even those EU regulations, which are European rules, gains, not conductive, do not require to limit our OPGs to this extent, to protect their seeds, do not make it impossible, or to conduct so much. And the key thing that can be concluded from this is this famous self-sufficiency. We've been talking about this self-sufficiency a lot ever since the Coronation was a crisis. Croatia is not self-sufficient, unfortunately. Croatia has become a small regioner, a tourist region that today has no EU tourism and has almost fully relied on the EU and its money that it does not have. Here we saw yesterday on the example of the reconstruction of Zagreb, that Zagreb is not renewed, why? Because we didn't get anything from the EU. 80 million euros and we're short, we need, what, 95 billion kuna. So we didn't get anything. But from this EU, we will buy products, sow their seeds and forget our seeds only because of what the minister says, which is what A. Plenkovic says, and what you say in the end, Secretary of State, even though you say so honestly, that this bill is not right.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41299	The next debate is on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereignists, excuse me, on behalf of the Association of State Movement Representatives, the distinguished representative of Ruzica Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41300	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed state secretary with his associates. Thus, by introducing the concept of "seeds from the agricultural holding" and the provisions of Article 2(1)(b) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council. For the purposes of its own food and feed production, the proposed law prohibits producers from planting seed from their own breeding material of sorates which are not registered and which rarely make up local varieties and populations. Farmers should first buy seeds and then eventually reproduce for their own purposes under the obligation to do so. Additional exemptions from these provisions exclude only those who can engage in a good work of undefined registration of traditional varieties. This concept does not exist in any of the existing European directives regulating the area of seed farming. The proposal for a law regulates seeds from a agricultural holding which at the same time explicitly prohibits placing on the market. That is why this concept and all the provisions that apply to it should be deleted. Farmers do not carry out the business of exploiting seeds for the production of seed material for the market but only the activities of agricultural production for the purpose of placing on the market of breeding products, food and therefore the activities of seed farming from the holding cannot be identified by the activity of seed companies. In response to the reaction of the agricultural producers' associations, the Ministry of Agriculture said, "With the new draft seed law, a new concept of seed from the agricultural holding is proposed for so-called ". The ceiling." In press statements, it is stated that this introduces order and regulates the gray seed breeding zone on the holding for its own needs. The cultivation of seeds for their own needs in the economy and the free choice of sorates or local populations and even the exchange of such seeds among producers is not a grey zone. It is recognised by international agreements, declarations, strategies and studies as the basic right of every producer that is particularly important in the conditions of climate change crises, epidemics and natural disasters we are dealing with. The term “tavanusha” does not apply to the infected, it applies, excuse me, to the infected, unginned and non-skilled cereal seed which the producers themselves have grown from seed sorates of protected breeders’ rights. The term “seeds from the family economy” is more complex, however, and not all the seeds that farmers grow for their own purposes can simply be declared “tavanusha” and banned, but it seems to be the goal of our Ministry of Agriculture. It is certainly an interesting indication of the Office of Law which commented on the lack of and illegal procedure for the adoption of this law, which was pointed out by representatives of the "Seme - our Human Rights" initiative. This is an eclectic example of how our ministries avoid applying the provisions of the Law on the assessment of the effects of the regulations and thus make the laws unconstitutional and illegal, which I have been warning since the first day of this call. I quote from the Government's Law Department delivered. So "The government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a legislative plan for 2020. The proposal for a law was included in the plan for the legislative activities of the Government of the Republic of Croatia under the term ‘Law on Seed, Fruit Material and Recognition of the Variety of Agricultural Plants’, which is neither disputed. However, what is very controversial and contrary to the implementation strategy of the Law on the Impact Assessment of Regulations published on the official pages of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but also contrary to the text of the book by the author who is neither more than the lady who runs the Government's Office of Law, Ms. Zdenka Pogačić, which ultimately generates unconstitutional laws in Croatia, is the following." Again, I quote the text delivered from the Government's Office of Law. Therefore, in the work relating to the determination of the economic impact of the proposed law, it has been established that the proposed law will have a minor impact on the macroeconomic environment of the Republic of Croatia, on the competitiveness of the economy, on the price of goods and services, a minor impact on the cost of production, in particular on the purchase of materials, and that it will have an impact on the small quantity of address, with a reason that the provisions of this law will have a small impact on the economy. Furthermore, according to the criteria for determining the need to carry out an assessment of the effects of the rules referred to in Article. 11. The regulations implementing the regulation's impact assessment procedure did not determine the direct effects of the draft draft draft law, and therefore it was not necessary to carry out the regulation's impact assessment procedure for the draft law. Gentlemen, the Croatian peoples, this is a faceless lie. This lie weighs at least a few hundred thousand families. The impact of this law will be felt by all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia because this law collects food to everyone, not only to the farmer, it gathers production, and food, food needs every citizen of the Republic of Croatia. Only on the rough calculation of production purchases that will pass this law have we come to the following indicators, in Croatia we have 155,000 installers and another 57,000 vegetable farmers they are directly at the blow of this law. If we take just an example of the production of wheat produced at 140,000 hectares times 300kg, at least 300 kg, and people use 320kg of seeds at the price of finishing, the necessary fungicide, packaging bags and other kilograms of seeds are collected for 0,80 limes. It's an increase in the production of wheat seed for 33 million and 600 thousand kuna without transport. For many, transport will be the most expensive item, and many will come to the first processing house example Istria or, say, Gunje will be an impossible mission. From what right do we have to tell our ministry representatives that the impact on the economy and citizens is small, it is not what they say. If he is gone and so is the little gentlemen dear, please don't even pass this law, do a favor to the village and peasants and the farmer and the Croatian citizen so stop passing laws that make life in the country and production impossible. Get paid, but don't do anything, please. Give up today's law that destroys our farmer's existence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41301	The next debate is on behalf of the Green-left bloc advocates Boris and Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41302	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. Green-left bloc club to bring seed, fruit material and the recognition of agricultural plant sorates first prematurely at a time when a reform of European seed legislation takes place at European level. As part of the reform, previous studies have also been developed, which already show that the EU plans to clearly distinguish the market and commercial use of seeds from consumer exchange and cultivation for its own needs. The preliminary study will be published in April of this year, so within a month, and that was enough reason for this adoption of the Croatian law to wait, since it has been waiting since 2005 so that a crumb could wait or, as my colleague Ružica said, maybe it was better and not bring it. The bill's proposal raises concerns because the application of its provisions would, in particular, be an article. 16 on which you have all spoken here and the concept of seed from the family holding for seeds that farmers grow for the cultivation of their products should not place that seed on the market. This is where we heard from my colleague Petir and on behalf of the HDZ Club who said that this was the first reading, that there would be some remarks, but it should not be forgotten that there were 466 objections in the previous public debate, some of which were accepted, but such a large number of remarks could have been made possible, and also here there were talks that we were not talking about sublegal acts that would settle this or that would be arranged. So there was an opportunity for this law to really be clearer. The law therefore restricts and conditiones the use of seeds produced on the holding to exclusively registered varieties and, with the obligation to improve in authorised producers, so as not to endanger the already endangered genetic diversity of traditional agricultural varieties and also to significantly endanger the survival of small OPGs and life in rural areas which are the basis for conservation and existing biodiversity and natural resources, and not to say survival and people in some of our regions. In times of climate change and disaster, the contribution to the preservation of its own resources for stability and the future of the food system is more important and therefore this clumsy syntagm of seeds from the family economy and provisions related to this concept should be deleted from the law. And the law, not later, is to make sublegal acts, introduce all exceptions for the local circulation of seeds as provided for, and for, the fruit material itself. The difficulty or ban on seed farming in economies leads to an increase and dependence on imports, and today we have heard about it, and reduces the resilience of the food system in crisis situations, which we have witnessed in the pandemic. You know how important it was that we could get food and that healthy food from our environment. It should be borne in mind that 30.9% of the population of rural areas is at risk of poverty and social exclusion in Croatia at this time, and that is the most precisely in Croatia in the eastern and southeastern regions, it is these farmers who, to the greatest extent, sow seeds for their own needs because they cannot afford it, without saying that some do not want, consciously, to buy significantly more expensive seeds. Here we heard that the secretary was telling us that with processing it would be 30% higher production, so he was talking about productivity. The question is, can our people, our veggies and veggies just as well imagine their lives to do more productivity if it's important for them to produce what they want to produce? Such measures have been additionally and there have been speeches that would not only be a blow if they had to do so for those who produce seeds, this is also a blow to the standard of living of all our citizens because they will also collect the price of food.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41303	The Honorable Representative Matula will continue on behalf of the Green-Left bloc's Green-Left Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41304	I would like to thank the chairman, Secretary of State, with his associates, colleagues and colleagues. It is clear that this proposal of the Seed Act has introduced seeds of discord, and this seed of discord, first of all, between farmers, and between the OPGs and between authorities, but obviously that here, it was now seen after this debate on boards, it was seen. I apologize that you can finish if it's possible to, yes, yes. In fact, I have already quoted how the associations of these producers comment on this and what they are saying, and what they are saying is, when I'm talking about the seeds of discord, it's about the interest of 100,000 farmers, or by some estimates, and there are several of these OPGs, and that state secretary knows these figures well, meaning the interest of 100,000 farmers and a few, one small oligarchy, because it's a few, the ancient Greek word is "oligarchy", that oligarchy, it says that all this is actually resulting from illegal and illegal practice of doing housework, which draws away a number of illegal actions, illegal activity, illegal use of pesticides, work on black, non-compliance with environmental protection provisions, protection of work, non-tax. I reiterated this because it is absolutely amazing, on the other hand we have the testimony of these activists associations that the seed is a human right and it is a movement that goes all over Europe and I am really interested in whether you really intend to make this famous solution of seeds from the agricultural holding come into the commission, Parliament, the Council of Europe, to make a contribution to the "From Field to Table" strategy, is it the only solution that the EU's biodiversity strategy by 20-30, until 2030, so that it can actually be achieved, is that really the only solution? The fact that I notice to the neighbors that she really managed tomatoes and that after so many years of Malta doesn't have any taste again, so she tells me she sent me a letter, a letter, so it needs to be investigated right away because DORH doesn't dare to do the nasty and real research anyway, means the best way to prove that inspectorate, these associations you've worked with, and then you write there in the end that what you've only given two weeks, you apologize here, only two weeks has been open because some of these haven't given their contributions in time, experts. But here's the witness, it's not true that all the professions are octropic, it's not true that all the profession really thinks that it has to be solved this way, and that any problems of this one who's up there and why these 100,000 ignorants, are ignorant, but in fact, tend to crime those who work on black, and all of it, all of it, the whole science comes down to a gray dream and the rest of it, then... But there's only talk of a gray dream, nothing else, and a gray dream is the source of the gray economy and the greatest danger in this country, that's what you're talking to us about here. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41305	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is the SDP on behalf of which Martina Grman Kizivat, the respected representative, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41306	I would like to thank you, Vice President HS, the honourable state secretary with his associates, esteemed MPs and MPs. If you're wondering why I have this pea and this garlic in front of me very soon I'll answer that. What you see is the pea and garlic that my mom produces, and for generations there's been preserved and inherited seed from that culture, and she got it from her parents because it's the best seed that's been kept for generations, and our old ones knew exactly what's key to the crisis and why it's done that. Dear colleagues and colleagues, if someone in the assembly has forgotten agricultural production and seed production is a matter of national security, and basic foods such as grain or this pea, garlic are crucial in the crises in which we are today. I don't want to do any unnecessary melodramatic work this way, but I want you to remember very well that agricultural issues, issues of national security that need not be experimented with, and in no way do not make decisions that are not necessary and that can do much harm in the long term. I will remind you of what happened only a year ago, but it was obviously not enough for the stakeholders who sat in the commission to assess the impact of the law not to make mistakes that could have far-reaching catastrophic consequences for Croatian agriculture. It was just a year ago that it was decided whether Croatia would have anything to eat because the warriors were not allowed to go to their fields, and all ties with the world were cut off. Isn't that enough warning, even more because we live in a world like that today? Such same people from similar committees decided a number of years ago that Croatia does not need an Immunological Institute, so today we depend on importing vaccines and blackmailing large multinational companies that produce the vaccine and blackmail the whole world with their health. This is an esteemed representative with a strong question related to agriculture and this topic. By this Seed Act if it votes, tomorrow we will be dependent on the import of seeds if we will, when and at what prices, be able to import it at all. This is the irrevocable way of suppressing production, perhaps even most of its own seed. And now tell me it's not a matter of national security. Last year, we wondered if we could even soybeans because this seed because of the wrong policy now comes mostly from imports, and tomorrow it can happen with wheat, corn and this pea and this garlic. Since Croatia's entry into the EU, agricultural production has been down 5 billion kuna. And in our country, self-sufficiency in fruit production decreased 15%, vegetables 5%. Gentlemen, as early as December 2019, the European Green Plan was adopted with the main goal of making Europe Europe the first climate neutral continent by 2050. This is the most important strategic document for the development of agriculture in which guidelines have been given for the next 30 years. Among other things, the area of green policy are biodiversity, field-to-table strategy and sustainable agriculture and rural areas. It is written so that small farms can make the most of it, but here it has been for a year and 3 months in Croatia not talking about it at all or anything about it. In fact, you're doing everything the opposite that just those small and medium-sized farmers will be able to use a seed for their own use, but for sale they can forget. We continue to adopt strategies and legislative acts that are in complete contrast with the new European policy. And today, instead of discussing a law that incorporates all the guidelines of the European Green Plan and strategy from field to table, we are passing a law in which we continue to destroy biodiversity, small agricultural economies and, of course, depriving rural space. I've said all this a few times for this speaker, but the minister can't hear it. Honestly, gentlemen, I don't have a problem with that every time you repeat it. Maybe once and for all, you'll accept it as a well-intentioned criticism. I will also refer to Article 16, the question is, what about varieties that are not certified and entered in the seed catalogue as well as those seeds that are not finished? It must not be grown and sold by the manufacturer. One of the most wanted and prized sorate tomatoes is the ox's heart. It is not on the list in the Republic of Croatia or in the catalogue of EU sorates. Will we ban the production of this tomato and allow the seed to be lost in nature? The law also introduces a new concept, a seed from the agricultural holding, which represents a seed variety of agricultural plants produced and intended for sowing exclusively on its own holding which is prohibited from placing on the market. This concept of gentlemen does not exist in any EU directive, nor in the legislation of any EU member state. I really don't understand how you invented this concept unless you copied it from some lobbyist seed producers' associations because you certainly didn't from the EU directive. So maybe you can come up with a little better and more convincing excuses. We already all know that your laws are always done on the principle of copy paste with EU directives. But even when you add something, then you make life absolutely miserable for everyone. As crazy as that notion is, here's an example. We're interested in a case of beans. How when the manufacturer sells 5 kg of peas, he'll be sure the buyer didn't eat 4 kg of peas, and one kilogram was sown. Same thing with garlic. Will the manufacturer at the market ask the buyer for confirmation that it will all eat so that the garlic will not, for example, plant. Here's how crazy it is and how badly it's done. This law does not protect the interests of small OPGs and manufacturers, but neither do consumers who want to eat healthy, domestic, organically produced vegetables. This law could have terrible consequences for our agriculture. In other words, manufacturers will have to pay someone to gain the right to sow their own seed. Well, gentlemen, how much logic does that make? This is nothing but a new imposition that falls on our backs anyway, but poor farmers. Gentlemen of the ministry, you are leading a crazy policy of the destruction of Croatian agriculture that we are looking at throughout a set of laws that you have sent into the parliamentary procedure. And with this bill, turn off the light on all small OPGs and force manufacturers if they do not want to pay for their own seed, they must buy import seed which will make indigenous homemade varieties disappear. The Honorable Secretary of State, MPs and MPs, the seed is not just seed. Seeds are a geopolitical issue, seeds are a matter of life in the rural area, not the interest of a narrow group representing a few producers versus at least 100,000 farmers. As it is a highly sensitive law, we believe that the public and citizens must be informed objectively about all aspects and the consequences of this law, as well as the very course of adoption and its key participants. I'm going to repeat it one more time, and that should be heard by each of you, agricultural policy, and special production of seeds is a matter of national security that you don't need and you can't experiment with. In the end I can tell you about this bill, shame may be upon you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41307	The next club of representatives will be that of the Centre and GLAS in the name of the respected representative Anka Mrak Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41308	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. Dear Secretary of State with his associates. I'll talk about form and content. So, we have before us a bill on seed, fruit material and the recognition of the variety of agricultural plants, we had the same law, about the same title that was adopted in 2005 and the last amendment was in 2020, but obviously now it was more structured and decided on a new law, which we appreciate is good. So, we already have a whole set of laws here where we comply with different EU directives, and when we discuss this, then the proposed defence mechanism is always the next sentence, we are in line with the directives. All right, all right, we don't mind, but all these laws are characterized by one fact, that everything that doesn't know is solved, everything that's not going to be solved, everything that's wanted to be hidden under the radar, then the rules are foreseen, regulations that will be passed by the government or the rules that the minister will make. For the simple reason that you do two things, you show that you're precisely showing that some things won't tell the public and you're skipping HS. HS has the right to debate, HS makes laws, HS needs to know everything. That's what you did in this law, what you didn't want to define, and what everyone who gave you the line said, and that's going to be settled by the rule. It's not dealt with by the rules, it's settled by law, and it needs to be in law. Hope always remains that your colleague who spoke on behalf of the HDZ Club said the same thing, and then we hope that's the case. We can talk about that side of the opposition, we can point out, we can do it together, but your colleague, your colleague, who belongs to the ruling told my people you didn't make a good law. I have no doubt there will be a vote, but that is the hope that you will formally make this law right. We go a little bit of content, this law opens up a few topics, one of the topics that will be full of mouths, and we will all swear and talk about climate change, talk about a green European plan, there will, of course, be so sweet as to talk about how it is extremely important, how Croatia has everything together, but when we see one-one, what it says among other things, that local agricultural production should be strengthened and healthy food should be promoted so simplified. And what are we doing with this law? With this law, we are reopening that eternal theme between small and large. There are no laws that big and big manufacturers and big producers in agriculture will not survive, they will survive in one way or another because they are powerful, because they can because they have power and energy. There's not a single law that the kid doesn't feel on his back and the question is why and the question is why are we doing it? So, the essential question that we need to ask ourselves and see, so the law introduced the term seed from the agricultural economy, there's no reason why we introduced it, there's no EU directive, no one's forcing us to do it, and if, as I asked the secretary of state, let me know what the motive was. The answer was, so we don't have to, we have the possibility to define some of the things that are specific to us. Great, great, great, now we've defined seeds from the agricultural holding and we've created that problem for those same economies. So, we will, it's who in the joke, don't help me anymore, don't help me, leave me alone. Therefore, the experience of other EU members is that they do not recognise the concept, they do not recognize the proposed production of seeds. So, I can understand some law, I can get along with something, I can disagree with something, but I need to understand what's the point. So what's the point of being a stepmom to our own people, to be a stepmom to the agricultural economies, to introduce them to a notion that they're going to have problems with, which they're now telling us don't do, the problem is that they're left with, and then they have a financial problem and everything else. I was somehow convinced that this is the time, that a time of crisis like when crises occur in families, when crises somehow arise with a man with his own identity, so crises arise in a country, to make you better from these crises, to be more reasonable, to be more operational. So, we live in the Corona era, this crown is clearly not over, and what we all hoped in 2021 would be the year when we return to normal life that is obviously not the case, and obviously by the end of this year we will live, or until we split up, until we have been given regular vaccinations, while the vaccine will not be available that way. That's who she's talking about masks remember in lockdown it wasn't to buy for masks, you bought masks over a relationship, now you can buy it at any store and it's not a problem. So when we get in a state that you can split up at any time, we'll obviously have a crown problem by then. And the crown needed to teach us some things, to teach us the importance of food, to the importance and self-sufficiency of food, to the importance of being able to keep you alive in normal conditions, among other things. small producers. We call them big and small, they're big by their capacity, but these little ones get big because they make up for everything. And instead of helping them, instead of not having them, my legs, I feel like someone's breaking their legs, because after that, I'm deeply hoping that this bill won't be in another reading. I deeply hope that another reading will change and that something reasonable will occur in the second reading. So let's ask ourselves a question. Who do we write the laws for? So that someone would write them, so that someone could justify their existence in the ministry, so that we MPs would have an excuse for why we get paid and we would discuss it. If anyone thinks it's all wrong. We make laws, not to have someone put them in a drawer and not to implement them, but to carry them out. We citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia can't be stepmothers, we can't set their feet, we can't break their arms and legs that they don't have anything to work with. We need to enable them, so there is this part where there is no EU to tell us you have to do this or what gives us the opportunity to define local legislation in a way that needs to be determined. There is no directive, only I always make comparisons with what I know, there is not a single EU directive that you said when you are working on rebuilding Croatia after the earthquake, you make such a complicated procedure that no one knows how to submit the request. There isn't. Do whatever you want. No, no one who conditions that we define seeds from the agricultural holding and that we plant our feet there with those same economies. So, the message I want to send from this pay phone. We're all pretty much telling you the same thing. At this point, no matter how this law will be voted on in the first reading, everyone told you the following. Define everything in this law, make exceptions to everything in this law and really don't be a braker, don't be an obstacle to small family economies. In the end, this small Croatia can survive on them, so don't break their legs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41309	The next Club of Representatives will be the SDSS on behalf of which the respected representative Anja Simprag will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41310	Dear Vice-President of the Assembly, the Honorable State Secretary with his associates, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, we are now facing a regulation in the area of agriculture that is more accurate in seminary and dissipation after we recently discussed the Agriculture Act. The current version of the Law and Seed, fruit material and the recognition of agricultural plant varieties was adopted at the end of 2005 and came into force with the first day of 2008 and over time this version became obsolete. Today's version of the proposal is meaning in this first reading, mostly Article 16 of the Law that caused the right storm of comment and in some ways two opposing sides were created. Most experts and seminaries have welcomed the rules. They will introduce several rows on the seed market, define farm seed and coordinate categorisation and quality standards with Europeans. On the other hand, we have producers who generally believe that the law does not adequately protect the production and distribution of native seeds whose production preserves small ecological economies. If we look at the bigger picture, it's not the only opposite sides. On the one hand, we have a capitalist way of growing which is the only goal that is to make faster and better profit and on the other hand, traditional old-fashioned farming that seeks as much quality and tasty fruit as possible. Although hybrid types of vegetable cultures are available to us at all times and are also more profitable, in plastics and in the field quickly reaching the nostalgic tastes, smells and colors of the ancient varieties have no price and therefore each of us chooses the side in some way. Agricultural reproductive material is the basis of agricultural production and the first link in the food and supply chain, or without quality seed and fruit material, we do not even have quality agricultural production. It all starts with him, but it ends with him. It's clear to all of us here. The laws and rules so far have not fully defined the use of harvested material from our own holding, which has caused many problems in the cultivation of agricultural cultures, and among other things, the re-emergence of already forgotten weeds in our fields such as weeds and the spread of diseases that pose a danger to human health, but also domestic animals such as smelly wheat. In order to enable agricultural producers to use small quantities of seed on their own holding, this proposal introduces the term ‘meal from the holding’ and so on. farm seed. Such seed will have to be processed by suppliers listed in the register of farm seed suppliers as producers in order to ensure the minimum presence of harmful organisms in accordance with the rules in the field of plant health. We have already heard here several times and found that the term "seeds from the agricultural economy" is unfortunately unknown to anyone at EU level and their directives. However, here we point out that small producers, organic producers, hobbyists and gardeners will not have any new burdens and restrictions in terms of producing their own seed for their own purposes, and that products from indigenous and traditional sorate seeds will still be able to be sold on our markets. Preserving indigenous and traditional plant species is necessary to preserve biodiversity and genetic diversity thus ensuring the stability of agricultural production at both local and national level. Agricultural producers will therefore be able to continue to use their own seed in their fields, the restriction will only apply if they wish to sell their seeds on the commercial market. Such seed will have to pass the process of finishing to ensure the minimum presence of harmful organisms, diseases and weeds. Such seed allows agricultural holdings to produce seed for their own purposes and use it on their holding, and it is not mandatory to pass the seed certification process since it will not place the same seed on the market. This seed will not be able to sell, but from it it will be able to produce and sell their products. During the period from 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2017, the manufacturer shall submit a report to the competent authority of the competent authority of the Member State of the Member State concerned. This, of course, costs, and depending on where the OPG is located, creates and logistic problems because service repairs are not available in all counties, so the farmer will rarely have to go a few hundred kilometers to take the seeds to work and perform everything he has done for his own needs so far in accordance with the existing rules in the field of plant health and the rights of the processors. For example. In Dalmatia, there is not a single certified certificate, nor a seed-doping company, so farmers should send their own seeds to Zagreb if they want to sow. Sub-legislative acts will provide for exemptions from the obligation to supplement seeds depending on the size of the farmed area entered in the ARCOD and the quantities of seed used from the holding or those producing small amounts of seed will not be obliged to carry out the addition of seed produced on their own holding. And here it should be warned that the limitation to the total size of agricultural land that is entered into the economy is not an adequate measure because the economy can grow seed for its own needs on a very small surface, and on this rest of the property it can grow something quite different. It is also not the same culture that is grown, so for example one hectare of wheat is not much, but that is why one hectare of salad is a very large area. The system of production and placing on the market of agricultural reproductive material is prescribed by EU directives, etc. marketing directives based on international protocols to ensure that agricultural production of reproductive material is multiplied and placed on the market uniformly or standardised in all countries. In order to ensure that agricultural reproductive material imported is identical to the quality of materials produced on the territory of the Republic of Croatia, an equivalent system has been established. It is undeniable that the bill has caused a lot of controversy and discussion in the media, but also here in the assembly and in a public debate with over 450 comments. However, it is also undeniable that such a law is needed in order to introduce order in the field of seminary and wasteland. On the basis of all the comments made and comments made on the contested articles of the laws that the colleagues have counted here, we hope that the final proposal for the law in the second reading will be more concrete and clearer with exceptions, both for small producers and potato producers when it comes to certification and processing of seeds, but also for the financial costs that they will all be exposed to. So far no one's seed has been a strategic product, and in this debate we see that we finally realized that the seed is the bearer of life and I hope that the final bill will go in that sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41311	The next Club of Representatives will be the IDS, and the Honorable Representative Marin Lerotić will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41312	Dear Vice President of the Assembly, State Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia must be to strengthen domestic food production and the CAP. Unfortunately, in Croatia today agriculture is only a declarative strategic branch, and in reality we are flooded with imported food of questionable quality. Farmers, especially small OPGs, are trying hard to find their way to a market where they are in a more unfavourable position because of cheaper products coming from different parts of the world. Therefore, the law before us should be designed to strengthen domestic food production, but we see that the proposed Seed Act, fruit material and the recognition of agricultural plant varieties poses additional obstacles to our small OPGs in the possibility of using indigenous seeds. Today, Croatia imports more than 80% of the seeds for agricultural production, which speaks enough about how much we depend on imports as a country. It is therefore necessary to allow simpler certification of domestic seed as famous varieties and easier entry on the national variety list in order to permanently preserve them for future generation production that are coming without complex proof of the origin of seeds carried from generation to generation. If the proposed law is adopted in this form, seeds of native indigenous cultures will simply disappear and we will never see them again in production or offer, which is something we cannot allow. For the long-term development of domestic agriculture, regional banks of plant genes as well as the national bank of plant genes should be established to preserve this seed forever, since this law will cause a irrevocable loss of a large number of domestic species. The indigenous traditional old varieties are immensely rich with both agricultural production and biodiversity. Furthermore, it is necessary to define by law what is a seed from the agricultural holding and to improve it in its own economy. Small OPGs, eco-producers and producers of indigenous varieties must be excluded by art. 16. Law relating to seed production and placing on the market. It says that the seeds produced must also be certified from a variety that is registered and compulsory seed processing in an authorised grower. This is absolutely unacceptable for those economies and this must be clearly defined in the law. They must be freed from the processing of their own seed and of an expensive and very complex certification process, the production and processing of seed from their own breeding on the holding and placing it on the market must be possible. Justified is the fear that a seed that is not listed in the national variety list and completed could disappear and I repeat that is something we cannot allow. We have to take care of our local varieties of fruits and vegetables, permanently preserve them because it is the greatest wealth we have, thus being recognizable, we preserve our tradition and culture, indigenous products and traditional dishes that we prepare. I will mention the project in Istria that we are implementing, it is about the project “Istra bioregion” as a comprehensive project of conservation and sustainable development of Istria, which has in basic processes the development of organic agriculture, livestock farming, valorisation of indigenous products as part of our tradition and culture. It is precisely organic production that is one of the main guidelines for the development of Istrian agriculture, and we must legally have a good basis for our agriculture to develop further in this direction, not for the law to limit the possibility of using indigenous seeds. We hope that until the second reading, the Ministry of Agriculture will respect a number of criticisms, not only of opposition but even of the ruling and suggestions on the points of the provisions of this law and that the final draft law that will be in the interest of Croatian farmers will be because at the moment this law is not.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41313	The next club of representatives will be that of HSS and HSU on behalf of which the respected representative Zeljko Lenart will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41314	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The big debate was raised over this Seed Act, which unfortunately is in this form, which in the first reading is a great damage to agricultural producers. I'm sorry that many colleagues and colleagues have gone, perhaps a little in one wrong direction and have taken hold of the fig leaf this law offers, which is an indigenous seed that can be grown without certification as hobbyists, gardeners. Yes, it's true, but gentlemen, there's no product on the market of this kind of seed, so I need to know. What will Podravi who produce paprika, which is selected in the narrow area and by which they are known? They won't be able to sell it tomorrow. Tomatoes, pepper horns for ajvar, so by this law forget more about that pepper if the manufacturers are to follow the law. So that they will shine will not be certified seeds and they must be in the gray zone sown their seeds, and show something that will show that they have bought. What are we driving them into the gray zone for? Why do we torture people and not give them the opportunity to sow what they've sown to this day, what they've been working on for about 10, 20, 30 years to select such species? I will be immodest, so I will say that I am the most professional here in this assembly to talk about this subject, I graduated from Zagreb University of Agronomics and I have been an intensive producer for 30 years, I am a farmer for 30 years, I produce vegetables and war culture. I won't sow in war cultures this year, not a single grain of uncertified seed, but every time I open a soybeans bag, I grab my head, I'm mad at myself for not leaving soy last year for sowing this year, because it's a catastrophic quality of seeds. We can't fight for damages because of bad seed. It's said in the explanation that the waist has been contacted. The biggest problem here has been created by the contacters who have been involved in the art. 16 which cannot be sown except for certified seed from the holding. Which is why you think that I, as a peasant, would make a small contribution to my colleagues who produce, sow bad seeds, a small contribution. What makes you think that? You know who can shine bad seeds? He who has hundreds of acres or thousands is a nonessential offering. We who work until 30, up to 100 ha, are very important to us because we cannot live exclusively on support, we must have a contribution. Last year, I made 14 tons of dry corn per hectare. Because I have all the surfaces to sow 15 ha of corn and I have to fight the yield to be profitable. He says it's in art. Article 16(4), that the exemption from the obligation to amend paragraph 2, depends on the size of the processing area that the OPG is working on, which is listed on the ARCOD on the amount of seed that has been sown and will be prescribed by the Minister by the Regulation. For what? We've had these years of bad ministers, fewer bad ministers, I can't exactly boast that we've had extremely good ministers because our agricultural production wouldn't be in the same situation as it is today. The obligation of the Republic of Croatia is to provide farmers with seed and the right to produce their own seed. Gentlemen, seeds and agricultural production are a geopolitical and strategic issue. He who does not have his seed, he who does not have the production of his own food and we do not already have it, he whom the foreigners will take over the agricultural land, is not a sovereign state. That's what's going on with us. 33,000 ha went into the hands of Forta Nova, so now we don't want to explore anyone else anymore, but it's no longer in Croatian hands. Three years and we've been dealing with the Agricultural Land Act, it hasn't come back to life yet, what's waiting for it? To run out of moratorium to buy foreign land? Obviously, that's what you're waiting for. The price of land has increased several times, all of us who buy land felt it on our skin. The land is getting harder to buy because the abnormal prices are being offered. Art. 17. for the quality of seeds is the supplier responsible for placing it on the market for the first time. Seeds, Dutch company, watermelons, Thai production. A melon, a Dutch producer, a country of origin of China. How does our merchant, this gentleman I bought it from this morning, and these 3 cards cost $1200, how can he be responsible for the quality of this seed? He says he's responsible if he doesn't keep him in proper conditions to maintain the quality of the seed. How are we gonna find out? The moment I sow it, when it doesn't pop or pop right or when it comes to the stage when the product is in the zoo, when it needs to be delivered and it won't be what I asked for and what it's written for me here and what the catalog says is that it's here. How can this merchant be responsible? It can't be. Well, that's an indication to you that in this law, the main culprits are seed growers. Because they can't get over 20% of seed material being produced in family economies. Do they have to take everything? What happens next? They'll never make a peasant do what they want. Because if the peasant were not smart in Croatia, long ago he would have failed. Soybean farming standard is 80 kg, as much as you had to submit an invoice to confirm it wasn't a GMO soybean. Because of the bad seed, we sow 140 pounds. The certificate doesn't say "clause" or "weight" of 1,000 grains. You know how hard it is for people who, with a grain bulb, soy soybeans, to set a seed standard? The peasants will continue to take their seed and some I know, last year they bought soy seed, put it in the shed to have coverings and sow seeds that they themselves took because it proved to them that they were far better ovability, that it was better skating energy and that a far better plant and a better breed was than that seed that they produced themselves. The EU, EU countries, the EU's strongest agricultural countries do not defend its farmers by regulations to take farm seed. Go to Italy. I'm going to Italy on Friday, and I'm going to try to talk to you because I'm going to have it confirmed again, and I know I can shine my seeds. What are we defending for? So Croatia does not allow what Europe allows. Well, that's why we're the last in all the indicators. That's why we're the last in all the indicators. Not to talk about agriculture. Dear colleagues and colleagues, remember the farmers, remember how many times you might have stood up for them, represented yourself as village and peasant fighters, will you support such a law? Slavons, will you support a law like this where you defend your farmers from taking their seeds? Proponents of healthy food, how will you explain to your electoral body, your neighbors that you do not allow people to take seeds from indigenous seeds, grow plants and sell breeds on the market from that seed? It's nonsens, people. So these are our peasants, this is our Republic, this is the food we produce, so let's, let's take a break and fight for our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41315	We move to individual debates and will be the first to speak to the respected representative Marijana Petir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41316	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Secretary of State with his associates, MPs and MPs of the Seed Act offered some good solutions for producers to have the possibility of using healthy and quality seeds, but through several articles that were not yet clearly visible from this debate he opened Pandora's box and raised concerns. The ministry, meanwhile, has opened dialogue with associations and agricultural producers and in some areas there has been agreement that I welcome and encourage this dialogue to continue. There are still some open questions more specifically two. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This provision shall be exempt from organic producers as well as from those seeds entered on national or other varieties lists, while other exceptions for agricultural holdings entered in the ARCOD will be prescribed by the Minister by a Regulation. My proposal is to define in the law an exemption for small holdings producing seed for their own needs as provided for in the law an exception in Article 46 for small economies producing fruit material for their own purposes. It is important in the law to clarify that small producers who use seed for their own purposes and those who place it on the market are not treated in the same way. Seeds inherited from grandparents or obtained through exchanges with other producers should not be subject to certification and processing if used for their own needs and should be clearly written in the law. We also aim to preserve as many indigenous seeds as possible, so complex procedures for the entry of seeds on the variety list should be simplified, and the costs of this process should be reduced to a minimum and it is good that the ministry has opened a dialogue with farmers and associations. The second open question is the issue of improvement that is important in order to prevent the occurrence of the disease, which is primarily related to wheat. We sow wheat at about 150,000 hectares in Croatia, most seeds are certified but we also know that there are attics. In order to prevent the spread of the disease, the law prescribes mandatory production of seeds to be made by authorised growers. They must have a busy agronomics indefinitely, so there is a fear that this way of implementing the processing will collect important kilograms of seeds, and then eventually the price of food production. I propose that the ministry consider the possibility of allowing the agricultural holding to only work on the processing and keeping records and to send to the competent authorities. Such a possibility also gives us a European regulation on the processing rights of the Community plant variety. If farmers undergo training for the use of pesticides and herbicides then they can work and undergo training both for handling and with fungicides. I believe that even as far as wheat is concerned, it is not necessary to apply it to vegetables and potatoes. And that's why I think the ministry should make the law clearer so that it doesn't happen if we didn't get along well, and that because of these ambiguities, we create new obligations, and that this results in the rise in the price of seeds and then the rise in food prices. We have seen, for example, a soybean that one kilogram cost 2.5 kuna and after 7 kuna certification. And unless a certified soybean is sown, it means that it actually loses its right to support. Clearly, the intention that is good is because we do not want the GMO soy in Croatia, but we also have to make sure that when we adopt regulations that these regulations can also cause certain costs. That is why it is important for this law to be clear and unequivocal and to define good rules. And last but not least, I believe that the law needs to make it clear that we are a country free of GMOs and that we are forbidden to sow GMO seeds for experimental purposes. I believe that all of us here have a common goal of getting a good law, and in order to achieve that goal, we must all make our efforts and provisions of the law more clear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41317	Thank you, we have a few replicas. He is the first respected representative of Šimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41318	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear representatives of food production is a strategic interest not only in the world but should be with us, and we must do everything to go in that direction or to preserve indigenous seed because we simply cannot be dependent on others. This is the first reading, and I think we're already on a dead end. You in the last 10 years have been your professional challenge to agriculture and how to improve or increase food production. So you can say here are three disadvantages of this first reading and what we need to do to remove it and then be satisfied with both left and right with this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41319	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41320	Thank you very much, colleague Šimičević, so first of all, I think it should be mentioned at the beginning that it is good that the ministry opened dialogue with associations and farmers, which included them in working groups not only on the making of laws but also on national varieties lists and national preservation programmes of indigenous varieties. It's a shift. What I would suggest is that clarity be achieved and that nomotechnical offices of Articles 16, 11 and 17 are related to certification and completion. No one suspects the ministry's good intentions that they really think the rules exclude small economies because everything else would be illogical. What I suggest is that, in fact, the law emphasizes this, and then the sublaw can define what small economies in a particular segment mean, and when it comes to finishing, I don't think that finishing can apply equally to all structures, so small economies need to be exempt from completion, and for large ones it needs to simplify the process.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41321	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative of Shashin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41322	Dear fellow Petyr. You remember that we have really discussed this much on the Committee on Agriculture, and we have discussed this proposal in detail, and since it is a first reading, the Minister made it clear on the parliamentary committee that, in the meantime, until the second reading, we call it possible that the disputed articles 11, 16 and 17 will be defined in detail and that there is no need simply to create any tensions or possibility of misreading. I'd like to hear your comment on this subject, and I don't think we're in any kind of duress, that we have time to really explain it all that we simply don't lead people, farmers, into some sort of delusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41323	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41324	Thank you very much, colleague Shashin, for the replica. It is true, I said that when I spoke on behalf of the board right at the beginning of the proposal that the minister stressed the willingness to exclude small economies in the law, that she reiterated the Ministry's intention to do so with a sublegal act and also stressed that she was ready to accept our proposal regarding the flexibility of the processing process because we warned her that vegetable cultures and potatoes should be distinguished from war cultures, that it should also be taken into account the size of the economy, but also that it should be made maximumly flexible, so in that sense we discussed that it might be good in that article. 11. consider allowing the agronomics to be employed at specified times, and perhaps then some larger economies could be registered for the activity.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41325	And the replica has a respected representative, Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41326	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Representative Petyr. In a few discussions here that took place in HS, I think that Mr. Tugomir Majdak and the Minister have been irrevocably attacked, you are the chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, I am a member of this committee, and I know how much time and effort they have put together with us to make sure that these are the very things that most of the MPs here agreed to do in this morning's debate to get better, to benefit and to the benefit of those to whom this law is intended. So I think that, in fact, if we solve the article. 16. which I have no doubt at all, what is certainly the greatest burden for agriculture that we will have to fight is unfair trading practices that essentially kill small family economies.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41327	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41328	Thank you very much, colleague Ivanovic. I think we should never get tired of dialogue because it is true that there have been a lot of incorrect interpretations and interpretations of this law, but also what we should insist on is that clarity be achieved and that the legislation is regulated technically and that what we have finally agreed on on the board and we see in the final proposal of the law because it is in the interest of everyone to regulate this issue in a very clear and correct way to ensure through the protection of seeds and sufficient food production. You are right when you warn about the problem of unfair commercial practices, we have entered into that segment to amend the legislation because we have seen through our law that we have passed before the EU directive where these may be weak points and where they need reinforcements, so I believe that through legislation, but also through strengthening the control and introduction of order on the market and stronger regulation of product quality, we will come to a shift and a better result.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41329	Thank you very much. The next debate will be a respected representative of Mira Bulja.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41330	Thank you very much. The proposed Seed Act in this form will have long-term consequences, bad consequences on our agriculture, on our farmers, and that is clear. The human right to own seed in agriculture is perfectly normal, it is all conventions, and in this way we are essentially putting chains and chains on this small farm because here simply articles 16 and 17. is described what a farmer will have to do to make his own seed and the product of it possible to be on the market, everything is described. It's such a cost our village can't stand, our peasant. 30,000 farmers signed this petition, I believe that the basic human right is the right to seed in agriculture, and that is what we see in these moments of crisis that we are not self-sufficient, that we try to strengthen our village and peasants. Do we literally have 700,000 acres of unprocessed agricultural land due to terror over the peasant? The peasant is forgotten, he's just being declared, as someone, someone who's a believer, someone who's declarative than he is, I mean here and here, the government is showing a declaration that he's behind the peasants, and he's essentially cheating on harmful laws. This law is harmful, it collects seed from our peasant, it literally takes him, it would be more correct than you specifically if you had banned domestic seed from the indigenous land. In this way you've made even more perfided you'll collect so the developers will have to pay for the transport, someone will have to pay for the processing, the calibration, everything you've stated. In fact, what did you do? They trampled the rest of the village. What's the reason? Well, she can't be a secretary of state or a secretary of state, Monsanto, a commercial passenger. He must fight for the village and the peasants, not for the import lobby. I gave myself a law to ban GMOs. I gave it to ban glyphosate. Using, it's dangerous for health, on our shelves we have uncontrolled imports of food products, we 3 billion euros, gentlemen dear, we import, 2.3 billion euros in agricultural products, and in continuity it increases. Something like a crisis, you remembered about self-sufficiency. Well, we can't impose that kind of burden on a peasant. So much Saman. Well, we can't keep the peasants from insulting one noble animal, doing the loading. Donkey. We can't go from peasants. We must encourage the village to remain here, to create conditions. Not that these people are protesting outside and giving us their own seed. In order to regain consciousness, consciousness at all, and most of all, the ministry surprises me. Well, you didn't come here with this article. 17, 16, at all. Where you disable, you collect the use of your own seed and which cannot be on the market. And what do we have on the market? of GMO products, uncontrolled products, mispacked, ecological, I think, disaster. I would beg you once again, as Ministry of Agriculture with a mild tongue, do no such harm. The Croatian village and you have no right to do so, you have no right exclusively to enjoy import lobbys. We don't have any domestic producers anymore, you'll destroy what's left. Then why do we need the state empty? Is the state just a surface? So don't treat a Croatian peasant like that in the free, independent Republic we've had a hard time fighting. And don't just copy the directives of the regulation, believe me, neither did Italy prescribe other countries to protect its peasants. So once again, don't make our children test rabbits from foreign multinational companies like Monsanto.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41331	Thank you, we have one replica of the respected representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41332	Fellow Bulj, as someone who is also a parliamentary representative but also a farmer, you are certainly invited to talk about the problems farmers face in practice. In that sense, my question is what do you think the concrete consequences of such a passed law could cause?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41333	Mr. Bull's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41334	Well, the consequences are catastrophic, not long-term but short-term, and they point to associations, OPGs, farmers, experts, that this is one of the worst laws that brings our peasant, our farmer, our OPGs into an unequal position with the other OPGs and we are in a dream of efficiency, we give a lot of incentives, we give them to who knows who, so that this long-term seed will basically destroy, this is the last nail in the coffin, this law, if these articles are about finishing, the last nail in the coffin of Croatian villages, Croatian agriculture, and so I'm surprised why today is not a minister here. Why she hid in a pit, some kind of hole, I have no idea where she is. A very important law for our farmers who are now looking at their screens and waiting for what will be Minister... [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41335	The next individual debate will be respected representatives of Marija Selak Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41336	It is true that the minister has avoided this debate, because it is a hot potato and this is not only a metaphor because the potato variety is also one of the varieties for which an exemption is yet to be prescribed because its processing is not possible in practice. In that sense, my demands for the amendments required by this law are identical to those which I have already made in replicas and as requests from my colleague, Petir. Therefore, it is necessary to make certain exceptions but more importantly, it is also necessary to make clear in the law who the exemptions from the processing relate to. Therefore, the current Article 4 paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: 14. where everything is left at will by the rules that will be prescribed by the ministry, is not enough. The problem we have encountered here is that we have heard that this has already been done even though it is only a promise that we hope will come true in the future. Let me have a historical review. The Austrian General Civil Code, which was passed during Austria-Austria and which was written for 50 years, and its feasibility study was conducted outside of Austria-Germany so that it could be quality implemented on their territory, until domestic cooperatives, resulting in an overall hunger on our premises that lasted for years and therefore we received humanitarian aid from Austria-Hungarians for years. What does that tell us? It tells us that it does not matter what law is to be prescribed, that its consequences can be very specific to those to which this law applies and that, as for all other laws, it is necessary to carry out an assessment of the effectiveness of this law. Not that assessment from 2019 that exists but a concrete assessment of how much this kind of work would cost, and I'm afraid that if we really saw that assessment and all the processes that need to be done in order to find that such a thing is unacceptable to our farmers but unacceptable. The consequences of this are very specific and apply to all of us, and that is the message that needs to come from this assembly. It may seem abstract to someone to fight for the rights of the OPGs, but at the moment you come to the market, which most of us still do, and when you try to find one of those 5 sorates that are still left and when you want it to be domestic, if it really isn't there and if you can't afford it because if the price increases and the final price for consumers, then maybe we'll all remember what it was with this debate in the assembly and why we didn't respond in time as a society to prevent harmful law provisions or in constructive practice supplement them with more precise provisions that will disable what we all fear now and what we are discussing in HS. It is unclear why a new concept of "agricultural seed" is being introduced, but it is also unclear why changes are being made now if we know that a study at EU level will arrive in April, which will include the possibility of reforming the rules on seed marketing? We could have waited for the study, there would be a public debate about it, and then we could see how to adapt our legislation. I believe we all have the same goal and I believe our goal is to protect our agriculture. But it is unclear why we hear here on the right and on the left of the same argument, so there is one unity that I believe will be translated into the law, especially when it comes to the right, and that this could not have been communicated with the rest of the ministry earlier, which would now allow us to discuss constructively what still needs to be improved in order to facilitate the work and life of our farmers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41337	We've got a few replicas. He's the first respected representative of the Bulls.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41338	Thank you very much. My colleagues, you mentioned how during Austria-Hungarian times they tried to enforce their laws here in agriculture, so there was a hunger. How ours, what was successful then in Austria, so today our ministry, mostly the minister who's hidden somewhere now, isn't here with this important law, are also just copying directives without seeing what this peasant is going to be the last nail in his coffin. I think simple finishing seeds is basically how much more expensive seed is banning seeds, it would be much simpler and much more open and clear. Why are we the only ones who copy directives, and we're not really looking at the effects that will be on our peasants? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41339	The answer of the esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41340	There are two problems, one is the prescription that is often used especially when it comes to regulations to change something in our legislation and then it is said "so it is written there in European documents that must be translated into Croatian legislation". Today, however, we have a problem with a new concept of "agricultural seed" which is not known in the European acquis. Therefore, the open question is why is it trying to implement it in our legislative framework? If we assume that the legislator had a good intention and tried to regulate our agriculture then the issue remains that the same did not come up with the approval of all those small producers who had uniquely stood up against this law and why did the ministry not find a way that before this came to the HS agenda agreements with them on which these amendments were required?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41341	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41342	Thank you. However, in this one-mindedness that we have, it is good that there are parliamentary representatives who warn of harmful government proposals and it is good that you colleagues Bulj first stepped forward about the illogicality of this law and the fact that it is necessary to protect indigenous seed varieties. And in fact, this law is only a confirmation of what we have witnessed for many years here in HS to propose laws from the Ministry of Agriculture which do not have any interest in the problems of Croatian peasants, Croatian OPGs and which actually only contribute to further eviction from these areas where people are primarily engaged in agriculture. And today we will have opportunities to talk about the situation in Slavonia, how to explain in fact that such laws come to us here on the agenda and that we are discussing such laws that do not lead to interest in the Croatian peasant and Croatian village.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41343	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41344	One of the worrying demands, I would prefer to say a request or a cry sent by opponents of this bill to which this law is specifically applied and which will have consequences in practice, so our small OPGs are next. We want the new legal framework to recognise the importance of the contribution of the informal sector. We are not against the rules but we are asking that these rules be adopted rationally, based on measurable indicators and impact assessments in accordance with the reality of farmers in Croatia and that they respect the interests of all stakeholders to which they apply. If you must be asked to recognize at all the contributions they make to Croatian agriculture and specifically to us as consumers who use their products, then it is clear that there has indeed been a forest in a dialogue that has resulted in such a problematic proposal because the other side has not been heard at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41345	Thank you. The next replica of the respected MP, Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41346	Mr. Rainer's esteemed vice president. Dear colleague Selak. You and your colleague Bulj have openly tried to present to the Croatian public what all dangers are hiding behind this proposal of the ruling structure as if Croatian farmers themselves do not have a series, a series of difficulties. And you said here, Slavonia is becoming empty to us, Dalmatia is about the same and then instead of ruling to show how much they care and care for the little OPGs, for all our peasants we see that they are passing very strange and questionable laws. Please, once again, to the Croatian public, what is the biggest problem of this attempt to put such a law that will severely damage Croatian farmers?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41347	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41348	I hope that this will ultimately not be the case, that the regulation will really prescribe exceptions that will apply to smaller producers, although as I have announced in my address on behalf of the club it is not such a simple question because you can easily cross from the category of small OPG, it was also in the ministry relating to those 500 to 100 hectares frame in the category of the larger one which will further trouble your status. I really hope that there will still be ways to help small farmers, although it is not certain now, and the basic problem that everyone here is talking about is this particular article. 16 and the need to complete what is called seed from the agricultural holding, which is a new concept and as such unknown to our legislative but agricultural practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41349	The next replica of the esteemed representative, Željko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41350	Dear colleague Rasdic. As far as the study is concerned, especially in agriculture, each study is welcome if it has been done at scientific level because science has never been too much in any production, but it takes time. We are now in a position to defend something that the whole of Europe has not banned. Why do we not look at the oldest EU members who have the strongest agricultural production, such as Germany, France, Italy, the Netherlands, and that I do not list everyone who has allowed farm seed, and now we smartards who are in the last place by all indicators in the EU, who have ruined agricultural production for 30 years, bring one article in a law that defends what is most successful? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41351	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41352	Thank you, colleague Lenart. Someone cynical would actually notice that we seem to be the only creative and self-initiative when we don't have to. Declaration on the rights of peasants and other persons working in rural areas of the UN which has not yet been translated or brought to life in Croatian, which was adopted on 17 December 2018. its Art. The 19th century 8 states: “States must do everything to ensure that seed policies on the protection of plant varieties and other laws on intellectual property rights of certification systems and laws on the placing on the market of seeds respect and take into account the rights, needs and realities of peasants and other persons working in the rural area.” Therefore, nothing can be done in theory without having previously consulted those who live in practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41353	Thank you. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41354	Thank you, dear vice president of HS. My colleagues and colleagues. Here we are today discussing a law which, in my humble court, will be another natural disaster, not even an accident, a disaster that will affect Croatia. Among the first I warned about the problem of this law at the beginning of the year when we were all busy with earthquakes in the area of Bania and Sisak, and then I said that in the shadow of one natural disaster we are being prepared for others, this law is being prepared for us. This may be a very good introduction to what we will discuss later, in some way as the people say the porn term late in the evening, and this is the project “Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem” because this is evidence among other things that the government cares about in this region of Croatia, but also of all agricultural producers in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, all of which live and everyone who works in agriculture. Why am I telling you all this and why do I mention the project “Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem”? So the prime minister keeps saying that the project "Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem" is something that he should boast about showing us that the government is doing a great job, that in Slavonia it is never better, and then put it in a term that I said before is extremely interesting. And this law that I think is a natural disaster or something very close to it puts something in place that everyone will be able to follow, but that's good, I congratulate you on. So, citizens will be able to hear and see from colleagues and colleagues how you care for them. The law already provides for the handover of its own seed to an authorised grower and to pay for the production of such seed if the farmer would like to use it. In other words, manufacturers will have to pay someone to gain the right to sow seeds that are their own anyway. What logic does that make? To many, it sounds like a new, completely unnecessary and unfair imposition, which is usually what it is. If they do not want to pay someone for their own seed, they will be forced to buy import seed, thus disappearing indigenous homemade varieties of vegetables, while we will have to buy and sow non-quality import seeds in our fields. I have to draw your attention to the fact that just keeping my own seed in the attic, the coloquial ceiling, which has already been mentioned many times, has saved many indigenous varieties from permanent disappearance, I will only count some, some have already been mentioned, but let's say, a werewolf watermelon, a trogir flower, an Istrian purple arch, a Sibenik plum, a Neretva apple, etc., etc., I could spend 5 minutes just picking up these varieties. This law does not protect the interest of small OPGs and producers, but neither do consumers who want to eat healthy, domestic, organically produced vegetables and fruits, ultimately. By prohibiting domestic seeds and seedlings and by restricting quantities that can be planted for their own purposes, manufacturers in terms of access to untreated vegetables, while small OPGs will be sentenced to failure. I can't predict what will be written in the rulebook that the Ministry will bring, but speaking of its own experience, we're probably facing some new disaster and some new bad regulation, so we can only talk about what's contained in the law. And what does that mean for manufacturers? I have seeds I want to sow again in my field. So I have to pack the seed, mostly in the bags of jute, now it depends on the type of seed. That's one expense. I have to take this logistic seed to someone who will be authorized to process seeds, which is usually not in the same village, not even in the neighbouring village, not in the neighbouring town, but can be on the other side of Croatia. So you have a different logistics cost. So that someone does the seed, treats it in all the ways that it should be treated, that's the third cost, but while the seeds pass the treatment, and the jute bags are torn, so the new seeds that have passed the treatment should be packed into new bags, that's the cost again and bring it back to the field, that's 4, 5, so I don't even know what cost, the extra cost that the manufacturer will have to bear. And then how competitive can he be? I draw your attention to the fact that at EU level, all seed laws are applied exclusively to the seed market, while small agricultural producers who produce seed for their own purposes are excluded from the law and all other restrictions and we come back to that, colleagues and colleagues, and I will end up taking over the European acquis in an uncritical manner and most often cutting down our citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41355	We have a few replicas. The first is the respected representative Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41356	Dear Representative Hajdukovic. The Ministry's competent proposal of the Seed Act proposes introducing a new concept of seed from the agricultural holding for the so-called so-called so-called so-called agricultural holding. The attic. They say they are introducing order and control for gray, for the gray area of seed farming on the economy for their own needs. Do you think that's really true?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41357	Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41358	Very short and clear, no. I don't think this applies to anything smart, and I'm afraid that even though some of them have the need to deliver from this pay phone, and they come from the Ministry, they don't understand the matter themselves. We've had a chance to hear from our colleagues if I'm not mistaken, to your question, to hear that when the seeds are finished, there's no waste, and there's 10-15%. Minimum. And that's what the profession says, not that you and I invented it, and whoever wrote the law and that's where to defend it, he has no idea, and where that waste is going to be taken care of and how, of course no one knows.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41359	The next replica is the respected representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41360	Col. Hajdukovic, therefore their estimate of 30 limes per kilogram, while the assessment of small OPGs 80 drops per kilogram, because someone obviously left some steps in the dorada out of his assessment as appropriate. We often think about how to establish dialogue and be constructive so as not to turn out to be simply aimed at making political profit or breaking some bill. However, I do not know how to put ourselves in this situation, if we have heard that there is something in the law that is still missing, if we still have insufficiently developed laws and leave key matter to sublegal acts, which humiliates the work of this Parliament, as well as the Croatian citizens who have chosen us here. In that sense, I ask you, how do you comment on the fact that today and ruling agree with what we're saying, and they haven't been able to communicate with their ministry before?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41361	Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41362	Well, that's an interesting question, fellow Members, thank you for the replica, but in this case, I think common sense and logic still ruled, that even the ruling cannot defend indefensible and unblessingly. And yes, the costs are really going to be bigger, much bigger. For a number of reasons that I could talk about by tomorrow, but I think you've reached the peak of the argument we've heard here, here, the ministry recently, watch this, recently included producers in the consultation on the law. So how recently, so if we write a law that applies to producers, which seeds, which farmers, how are they not initially involved in the adoption of this law? Why didn't anyone ask them? Why do we have the initiative “The Seed Is Our Human Rights”? certainly not because they were involved and someone was willing to listen to them, let alone respect their arguments.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41363	The Republic also has a respected representative, Vukas.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41364	Dear colleague Hajdukovic. Here, you have studied this proposal to amend the law, and when you heard the explanation of the secretary of state and the whole debate, what you will say on your return to your Slavs, this famous article. Article 16 17, what will be good for Croatian agriculture? What are these things that made these hardworking people in the Ministry kill themselves to bring something good to Croatian producers, when you see the condition of Croatian agriculture, we have put out sugars, the agricultural land is the same as the Croatian judiciary, so there is nothing but clean business, we have destroyed dairy, and I guess now these little OPGs who have stayed, and that's what I said to the secretary of state, because the minister has been hiding today, and they should be shot probably by the head so that seeds and seed houses will be satisfied? What is benefit and what will you tell your Slavs when you return, what has brought them this famous amendment of the law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41365	Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41366	Thank you very much, dear colleague Vukas. If I were a pessimist, I'd say writing home failed, turn off the light, this is the final end of agriculture as we know in Slavonia, at least most of the same. But I refuse to be a pessimist, and I want to be optimistic about it here, which is why I'm talking about this just to point out all the failures, illogicalities and stupid decisions because I can't call them any other way that this law should register. And please don't attack the minister, that's what I told my colleagues and colleagues before. The minister is very busy because she thinks of ways to still touch Croatian agriculture, and believe me, it's not easy for me to come up with because she's already on her knees and she needs to fit the Ministry of Agriculture's motto, we shut down one every week. Well, that's, that's a 24-hour job, so you can't waste time here on a representative's body someone sucks.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41367	The Republic has a respected representative, Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41368	Your Honor, I think it's clear to all of us that some varieties survived on the OPGs and in agricultural production because they had an orderly contribution. Now we have a list of salads that can be sown, which can be planted, no one knows what the results will be. What's going on with our farmers, how much is their production going to cost, what's the yield after that? They had their own varieties that they planted, that glowed where they knew what the results were. Now they don't know that. So they're getting into a new risk again. For what? What kind of strategy is this to save the agricultural population and save agriculture?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41369	Representative Hajdukovic's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41370	Well, there's no strategy in that, and it's a problem. If our farmers who are already having a hard time dealing with competition on the market for a variety of reasons, but now you could spend all day actually talking to you about these reasons, if we add more pressure to them because I can't call it 80 limes per kilo, although I think it's a conservative assessment, then you can figure out how many more competitors that will make them. So, with all the expenses they already have, you're still adding almost kuna per kilo. It's not, it's not little. It is not small and it does not contribute at all to strengthening our agriculture, even the opposite. The other thing is if you want to put the seeds on the market, then of course do the work and it's okay, but if you want to shine it again, I mean it doesn't, it doesn't make any sense. Here, one of our colleagues who sits on this side of the assembly too, though he is a hobbyist breeder and has amongst other Sibenik plums, try something wonderful, but I'm afraid we're eating the last pieces now because this law will destroy them.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41371	And the last replica of the respected representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41372	Thank you very much. In 2019, 986 of these entries were entered in the supplier’s register, only 188 of them reported production, and others were involved in imports. Among the producers is 106 family farms and the fact that we actually import seeds and don't actually produce enough. Now according to Article 15 of this fantastic law, a supplier registered for seed production may produce seeds in the Republic of Croatia for a third country supplier although the variety is not on the variety list. This should be reported to the State's inspection or to the competent inspection to know what it produces and is not allowed to place it on our market. Who's gonna control it anyway? So, at the request of the supplier, you can do surveillance, but the question is who will control that distribution at all. Your comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41373	Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41374	Thank you very much, and colleagues are a good question. Although perhaps we should remain rhetorical because unfortunately our state has shown that it is unable to list something, let alone control something. We still don't know how many states we have, whether it's processed or not, or we don't know our state property, we don't know anything practically. The state doesn't know what he's got, what he's got. So we're blind here. You have a situation in Đakov that we have ten thousand squares of untapped state property. mimosis or former IPK building i.e. PIC Đakovo, on the other hand, all state institutions rent spaces in the city. That's it, we're so rational, and it's so much a question of how much we're going to control. As far as seed production is concerned, that if you produce it for the market, this law has logic, but if you just re-sow it or re-use it, this is pure plastic, fabricated, fabricated, parafiscal, which will still burden manufacturers and destroy what little is left of them.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41375	Thank you very much. Since we've been working for about three hours now we're going to take a break up to 12 and 40 for the ventilation, so please open the windows. [[MEETING IN 12.22 HOURS]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.44 HOURS]] My colleagues and colleagues, here's the break, so now the individual debate will have a respected representative, William Matula, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41377	Let me no longer address you, but today we've been twice, this is the third time. So let me continue what I want to talk about right now. This seed that is spoken of in the law, in the proposal of this bill of seed law, is shown to be a bad seed, not to say the seed of evil that has been sown there. Seeds of discord anyway. Now, the question is actually why would this be proposed in the first place, especially that famous art. 16 and this unusual formulation that, as people testify, is nowhere else in any directive or EU regulation. And that's why I asked this question whether it might be our contribution, the innovation of this Ministry of Agriculture to offer it to Europe, to finally call it seed from agricultural economies. Now the question is which line is actually this kind of agricultural policy, which is common in everything because I still think there is something that is common denominator of this policy and, which is, or common line, and that is still a line of clientelism, it is nevertheless a line of service, the guessing of a few, a few of these future, or today's producers. They're the only ones who recognize themselves, and they immediately commended you, and I'm not going to count it again anymore, but the vast amount of epithets they've managed to say, first of all, about the illegal, about the people who grow this seed of their own, I think it's all clear in that, but there's something else in common. We have recently talked here and here, in the same way, the beekeepers have rebelled against this kind of favor, and that kind of narrowing that beekeepers only regulates the Croatian beekeepers' alliance, and now as an association, outside, and no longer as a ministry, here in this way, there is still something being recognized here, especially what has to do with it because, even if I don't know how we certified it, all pollen is such that the bee can transfer it and that we don't really have a guarantee that the old indigenous varieties will necessarily be, even if we sown it, that we will get it. I think that instead of going with such a strict law we go to people, 30,000 people rebelled against it and I think that in that sense the action "Seme is our human right" and "We don't give seed" that these activist groups have really achieved a lot with 32 thousand farmers who started it. What I am convinced is that if you already suspect people that they are so uneducated, incompetent, sloppy, I don't know, I think that, when you can't bring the developers closer to them and when they're so expensive, there's money in the EU, I'm convinced that they can be educated and that they can be brought closer to people, that they can possibly be taught how to do their own work, whether it must be protective means, fungicides, Herbicides, pesticides, which are necessarily gliphosates, this is not, or maybe there we can learn from a fantastic action plan that has been developed by our top experts, Sonja Karoglan Todorovic and Darko Science, whether it could help wounded Banija right now and she, with just this destruction, in a similar way, develop her action plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41378	Thank you. The next debate will be respected representatives of Rada Boric. [[Matula raid: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41379	Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So here's the clue and speech of my predecessor, Matula, it's interesting that today we haven't spoken here how we're going to ensure this law and the obligation to implement and transparency of implementation and the national plan for the conservation and sustainable use of plant genetic resources. Here we are talking about how to preserve biodiversity, colleague Rasdić said that some directives, I initially said that this sudden rush to pass the law before we even see what research has shown, and while some countries have already taken care of how to preserve their seeds, here I am going to say somewhere on this trail, what will happen to the proposal of this law in relation to genetic material that will surely or part of it be lost before both scientists and experts and especially the owners of that material know what, what kind of professional information they will get, how they will be able to register samples, how they will be put into a bank, in a bank of plant genes, so what we do to preserve the production of exactly preserved varieties. If you look at it, Croatia has signed, there has also been no talk here and the Convention on Biodiversity since '92, Croatia has ratified it in '96, and in the annex of that convention it is said in point 2 that signatories undertake to identify and monitor species and communities that are endangered, including wild relatives of domesticated and farmed species, breeds and varieties, species and varieties of medicinal agricultural and other plants that have economic value or social significance or scientific or cultural significance. There have also been speeches here and the UN Declaration on the Rights of Farmers and Other Persons working in rural areas to bring and bring it in and ratify it in 2018, mentioned here. The 19th declaration, among other things, which states that it is the right of farmers to store, benefit, exchange and sell seeds and plant reproductive material, the right to maintain, control, protect and develop seeds and that the state is obliged to recognise farmers' rights to rely on their own or locally available seed by choice and to decide which varieties they wish to cultivate. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance The State is obliged to take appropriate measures in accordance with relevant international obligations, to prevent exhaustion and to ensure the conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity in order to promote and protect the full application of the rights of farmers and other people working in rural areas. You still have EU directives, one 5 of them, but since my time is running out, I will skip them, from 2002 to 2009, all of which speak about allowing local circulation of plant reproductive material in a way that small producers selling on the local market to non-professional end-users are exempt from registration. Local circulation facilitates access to domestic seeds and gardeners and non-professional users, does not endanger the seed industry or endangers production and can contribute to the preservation of genetic diversity and enable the source of income to small family economies, as well as our independence around our own agriculture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41380	We have one replica of the respected representative Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41381	Dear Representative Boric, the law provides for the exemption of small farmers from the processing of seeds but does not provide for exceptions for small economies for the use of registered varieties and this is the controversial part by which we are actually discussing today. The question is, how does a manufacturer sell tomatoes in an apple-type market, grown from seeds he's been collecting for years from his own estate because it's an unregistered variety and his seed isn't certified? The answer, of course, is no. How, then, is this not a restriction on the use of unregistered old varieties for its own use and how is this not a violation of international law? [[Intruder Boric: Well, there's a dispute...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41382	Dear representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41383	Oh, I'm sorry. Of course, and it's quite controversial, so you can't sell seeds, but you can sell a product on the market. So you have to make a decision about how you'll know when I'm going to buy an apple, or I'm going to buy a buffalo heart, ox heart, tomato, how I'm going to know whether it's certified or not, so nobody's going to wear the product lists that we can buy without saying, of course, all the things that should have been arranged, it's a safe area that can be arranged more easily but not by regulation, says the minister. So the rule that the minister makes can happen and doesn't have to happen. Manufacturers, in particular small ones, must have the safety of what they will do with their seeds and consequently their product which does not necessarily have to be related to the sale of seeds. He could be on the exchange. Or a gift.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41384	Thank you very much. The next debate will be the respected MPs of Anka Mrak-Taritash, please. [[Intruder Boric: Please.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41385	Thank you, thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Assembly, the esteemed Secretary of State with his associates. So, when we get one law and we discuss this law, then we should always discuss what is the point, what is the goal, and how this law will be implemented and what consequences this law has. So we have a part of the law that we can agree with and we have a part of the law that has made recommendations, and we do not have them, and that is the term "seed from the agricultural economy". By introducing that concept and defining that concept into the law, of course, there have been all kinds of problems that we all point to. So, who are we writing the law for? We write the law to regulate this problem, to allow people something simpler, simpler, or to write the law to have a cartoon that the law is written. And then what happens to us by introducing this idea? First of all, do not solve it until the end, but switch it to the rules, which we indicate all the time that it is not good, that everything that can be settled in law should be settled in law, not transferred to regulations. Since these are also colleagues who are from a position of authority, I am deeply hoping, and I am deeply convinced that they will convince you that this should be resolved by the second reading. The second topic has indeed shown you, we all point to the fact that by introducing this concept of "seed from the agricultural economy", you have not, you haven't solved it to the end, you haven't defined what you should have and you're really becoming a stepmother to your own citizens who are really in front of a wall that we don't know how to solve. If we'd gotten an answer from you, what's the point of introducing that idea, why are you doing it, what's going to be the result, what's going to be the benefit, what's going to be the benefit, I'd understand it. But we talk all the time about the fact that people point out that it's a problem, that they're talking about financial effects, that they're talking about how seed processing is a whole seed finishing problem at all. So, I can understand a lot of options, you could even, you can go with some law that I don't understand, which I don't agree with, which I think is guilty, but I can't possibly understand this. You introduced something, no one came looking for you and made you bring it in. When you introduced it, everyone points out that's the problem. Instead of sitting down with them and solving the problem, it would be one of a set of laws that I would say okay, we'd be discussing a little bit and going through the first and second reading, not even on the bright stage. All the laws that come from your resor, from the farm, we're all watching and you know we're looking at each other's eyes. The crown that she left behind and still leaves a mark on us is all of the things, the way life and the way it works a little amplified and points to the problems that we have, point to the problems we have in agriculture. So, we're going to declare that, for the Green European plan, we're going to advocate strengthening local production when it comes to agriculture, we're going to advocate promoting healthy food, we're going to advocate small producers, we're going to bet that we want to have it all done and regulated, and it's on a declarative level through some strategies and through some options all great, all 5. And then we come in, the first bill comes in, we fail the test, we come in on the second bill, we fail the test. So how can it be in harmony with each other? It can't be. To answer who's going to work at all, who's authorized to, to do the seed, you answered on one committee, that when I looked at one committee, that there were 60 authorized seed growers. Where are they? Did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, How do they work? How many do we have, how does it register? How many labs do we have? Well, my people, uh, it's a subject today, and the census is going to show about how many of us there really are, and there's a little of us, and I'm afraid it's going to show that we're under 4 million, and we're doing our own regulation, and there's 40 million of us, so there's no us. So let's make a regulation for our fellow citizens and not be a stepmother, but a mother.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41386	Thank you very much. You've got one replica from Mrs. Devereaux. Katarina Peović.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41387	So here's a colleague of the Dark-Taritash I'd suggest perhaps an answer to your question why? The question arises why is such a law passed if the reaction of many is negative? And I would even say that the minister means with already in the e-debate suggests that she understands that there is a reason for dissatisfaction and a rule to be announced is therefore in some way acknowledging that something is wrong unlike a series of other laws where we don't get such a response or such a reaction at all. But many have suggested that this is about it, I think the incendiary companies have certainly played an important role in which this goes into favor anyway, but I wouldn't even go so far as to say now there's a ministry with companies that the holders of these processing rights have entered into some sort of agreement but really we with all the laws that we're making here put ourselves in the position of the periphery of Europe which is essentially subordinated to the center.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41388	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41389	Thank you very much. I'll start from the end to the beginning. So, I always speak clearly from this pay phone and there is no dilemma. I am one of those who thinks it is good that Croatia is an EU member, that it is good that we are in a society better and more successful than not. But what's depressing me and what should be depressing to each of us regardless of what side of this assembly is that we're all indicators, not among the bad guys, not among the weak ones, but I'm afraid, according to most of the indicators, the worst. And that's something that's depressing me, that we're actually not seeing a shift here, that we don't see anything that needs to be done. So, wait, so someone doesn't work, so it gets worse than us is absolutely illusory, as well as in general in the agricultural segment. So, to the question I asked the secretary of state, answer me in one sentence, why did you decide to do it? Why? Maybe there's something we don't understand. He said because the EU made possible what is not regulated [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] We can. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] That's not an answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41390	You don't have any more replicas. Thank you. No more exhibitors of free positions and return to the Proposal for a Law on Seeds, fruit material and recognition of the variety of agricultural plants that is in the first reading. Now let's see who's up? Mrs. Katarina Peovic, it's an individual debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41392	Here's a good day, everybody. Let's get back to this topic. It is therefore said that this law allows or restricts the seed to be sown, so that it can be sown only with the seed that is registered, that seed seed from its own cultivation can be prohibited for its own purposes. We've established that the agricultural associations are dissatisfied with this. I'd put a little bit of a different emphasis on what's already been pointed out and said here. And that's that this law will hit the poorest ones most. And the poor in rural areas have over 30%, and these are people who eat more and more themselves. So people who feed themselves put restrictions on food production. That's really amazing. But it's not just that we have a government on one side, a government that has agreed something with some companies that are carriers of processing rights, so I wouldn't calculate that we have some kind of agreement here, but actually a consistent implementation of something called a marketing game. With that, with a small fence, that we are in this case more sacred than the pope himself. To be clear, we have already found here that it is a regulation that is not EU regulation, which is being warned by farmers but our original regulations so as to deny farmers so that they sow their seeds by saying that this will lead to the threat of biodiversity but also to the threat of food sovereignty and in this situation, so not only the root of the crisis when we have to ensure food sovereignty, but also in the situation of global changes, or what is called climate change, we will indeed not be able to function without fossil fuels so that without them we will have to reduce and mobility of goods, meaning that we have to the end to be absolutely certain that we are coming to an end of the era of fossil fuels, industrial agriculture cannot operate without fossil fuels, so that without them we will have to reduce and discuss the mobility of the goods, means the mobility of the service. Our cities mostly rest on industrial production and on large trade chains and supply of food from high distances, otherwise it is estimated that we have about 3 days of supplies in such a concept, so food supplies. All major trade chains, we know that Croatia imports over half of its necessary food, sometimes in all, in black socialism, in all food categories, we produced almost all categories of food, 50% more food and so on in livestock. Encouraging therefore local agriculture and food production and absolutely giving priority to the consumption of locally produced food he really is something without which we will not be able to do and now at the time of these local elections, few who speak about this topic even though the hills and valleys are promised, but local food produced should be really one of the priorities in creating a network of neighborhood shops. But I'll go back to why all this is happening together, so it's not some kind of deal, it wouldn't go so far between the government and some companies, is it, the bearer of processing rights, but it's really a free market game where we're more sacred than the Pope himself, where we give priority and fully accept the model of a system aimed at legal protection of intellectual property, to simplify it, so it's like when Microsoft restricts the use of all the computers with its Windows system, and the Linux as they are, so in this segment, we have an attempt to completely limit ourselves by a legal system aimed at legal protection of intellectual property, with this being about biodiversity and things being more dramatic. So you would warn that this has maybe a wider, free market dimension.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41393	Thank you, you've been very specific. Now it's Mr. Ljubomir Kolarek's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41394	The Honorable Chairman, respected secretary of state with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. The proposal of the Seed Act, fruit material and the recognition of the variety of agricultural plants, we see that it has caused a very lively, good debate, parliamentary debate, everyone from their point of view looks at the proposed law. However, the main objective of the adoption of this law is precisely to regulate the production, placing on the market and importing of agricultural reproductive material and plant species, enabling, adopting national varieties for agricultural reproductive material which will be sold only in the field of the Republic of Croatia and which will simplify the procedure, enabling the return to production and placing on the market of indigenous varieties stored in a plant gene bank. We have talked a lot here today about agriculture, about the importance of this economic branch as well as about the importance of implementing a real strategy for the development of agriculture in the Republic of Croatia. We have discussed here a series of laws and today's law has great importance, points out the importance of quality seeds for agricultural production and, of course, that seed, this seed, is dependent on farmers who can and must make high and stable yields, among other things, and because this seed must be of quality. In recent months, a number of critics of this law have come forward, but everyone agrees that something needs to be done and well done in this part of agricultural production. I would point out here what the profession points out, the use of uncertified seeds without any control is not a good example of agricultural practice and can cause uncontrollable spread of diseases, weeds, harmful organisms, plants and results in what, of course, results in a reduction in yield per single area. The proposal for this law, as stated by experts, should introduce more order and application of the rules of the agronomic profession in seminary. I will also use the opinion of the Croatian Agronomic Society which says that small producers, organic producers, hobbyists, gardeners will not have any new uses and restrictions in terms of production of their own seed for their own purposes, and that products from seeds of indigenous and traditional varieties will still be able to be sold on our markets. The proposal for this law, if we read correctly, shows that small producers do not impose new restrictions but enables their activities to be extended to legal, commercial, commercialisation of indigenous and traditional varieties. I agree that some articles should be made clearer, may be submitted and arranged in particular by Articles 11, 16 and 17, because we also have large potato manufacturers in Međimurje and also have certain unknowns around them. I therefore hope that this law in the second reading will experience certain changes, that it will be clearer, better, better quality for understanding and reading and that it will bring a positive climate in all segments of agricultural production from those very large to those small family economies that should be more satisfied with that law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41395	Thank you very much for having your replicas, but before that there's only, without saying any.../incomprehensible/... it's not popular, it's not nice, but this growing number of infected as you've seen from the information, lift this mask up above your nose because this one, because the rule is like that. Mr. Sinisha Yankee.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41396	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear counterpart Kolarek so I will quote the Agricultural Institute in Osijek, which has been dealing with selection and processing in seminary since 1878, which says they fully support long-awaited legislative changes that aim to address the problem of negative seed processes, maintain the continued development of varieties and permanent investment in the technology of production and production of seeds to allow manufacturers safe and profitable production. That's what the Institute of Agriculture in Osijek is talking about, which supports these very amendments to the law. What do you think about that?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41397	So, look, if this is about, uh, a respected colleague of the Yankees, if it's about the Institute, the Agricultural Institute in Osijek, who's not directly related to seeding and not dealing with this kind of business, I think it's a good sign that in this seminary and in that law, there's a certain order to be made, but I point out that no one in this law is privileged. So to prevent the spread of the disease, to make order, to increase I will say production, but no one is privileged to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41398	Mrs. Andreja Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41399	Thank you very much. My dear colleague, I am pleased that you too have objections to these key articles of the law and that you have apostropheded that they should be changed or completed, so I guess here are your colleagues who will obey you. The small OPGs that ensure their existence by growing work for their own needs, and by selling this law certainly do not carry anything good because it would limit the use of its own seed and that would be an additional blow to many who actually belong to social categories. In addition, there could be a loss of domestic varieties of tomatoes, peas, which have not yet been collected in collections of the national plant gene bank and have not been placed on the variety list. It is a long-term process, a question and capacity of producers, and it is about traditional varieties of which there are several species, small quantities. How are you going to explain to our midwives, the wives on the payroll in Prelog, the Chakovec, to the whole of Međimurje what's going to happen to them? Well many will give up its own production. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41400	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41401	Here's my dear colleague Maric, I thank you for asking, I think it's clearly written in Article 16, that all these varieties should be included in that list, in the list of these preserved varieties that she would, then our grandmothers could freely place on the market, sell and I hope that all of us together and units of local and regional self-government with our offices for the economy and agriculture will make sure that these varieties are placed on that list and that you and I, too, will say very important link in agriculture and in the preservation of tradition not to be cut off.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41402	Thank you. Mrs. Danica Baricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41403	Thank you very much, Vice President. Your esteemed colleague, in your debate, pointed out that order must be and that conditions must finally be created for seed production of vegetables, so we all deserve that if we buy vegetables we have information about the health condition, about curvature, about humidity and similar seeds. I would also point out very strongly here that it is good in the law and the establishment of registration lists that serve to recognise differences because not all varieties are suitable for all soils, the introduction of a system equivalent to putting our exporting producers of seeds in an equal position and separating procedures for seeds and fruit material. I would like to know how you comment that this law was almost uniquely supported by the entire seminary profession and the scientific community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41404	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41405	Thank you very much. Now, colleagues, look, the waist knows very well all the problems that arise from the position of the occurrence and spread of certain diseases, and it also knows about the problems that are related to production when it comes to crops and the dynamics of growth per hectare. There is always a scam that there is sometimes no certain amount, although the year has been a good climate, that there is no specific amount of product per hectare or that suddenly a certain disease appears in a particular area that is impossible or not natural in that area, and it is suspected that it has come with an unquality seed.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41406	Mr. Zeljko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41407	Thank you. Dear colleague, how will you explain to the potato producers in your county, and there are one of the strongest potato manufacturers, that those of the seed material elite they planted this year cannot leave a potato for themselves. The potatoes they plant are probably not treated with anything, so it's not protected against any disease, so they probably left themselves and planted it, and it's not treated either. What are you going to say to your producers, and you know that they plant about two tons per hectare, how they're going to drive it, where they're going to drive to do it, how much it's going to cost instead of doing it like they did today, and I know they're very well educated and they're having great plantations and potato crops, and they're not going to let their potatoes get sick, which is why we're complicated and we're picking up production and so they're not competitive and so hard to sell potatoes?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41408	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41409	Thank you very much. A very good question, and just yesterday I was in Belica, where these very Međimurje producers of ours received a lot of funds for new freezers that must be made according to new regulations. I talked to them, and I just pointed out that they're gonna need that workup, they're gonna need it, they're gonna need it, they're gonna need it, they're gonna need it, they're gonna need it. 17 or a sublegal act where they, where such agricultural producers, in particular potatoes, are going to make it possible to continue on their own agricultural holdings under supervision or, but I claim that they are even educated, to continue to develop their own, their seed potatoes.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41410	Thank you. And the last replica. Injury of the Rules of Procedure? Here you go, Mr. Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41411	Thank you. Art. 238. Why do you think potato manufacturers are the ones who can do it and the other producers can't do it? Why do you think potato manufacturers can verify, and wheat and soy can't? What's the difference in education? I think they're both educated enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41412	I'm a colleague of Lenart's...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41413	No, no, no, no, no, wait, it wasn't a replica, it was a breach of the Rules of Procedure. No, no, I won't, no, there's no answer. But on behalf of all potato manufacturers, I'm giving you a warning. - Mrs. Crescent. Katarina Peovic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41414	You said that this law does not introduce restrictions, about what you said, means that no restrictions are introduced, commercialization is being introduced, if I remember correctly, of indigenous varieties. In that tone, you said something, if I remember correctly. Now, if you don't introduce restrictions, I think everyone will probably ask themselves the same question why is there such an article? 16 where it is said that only certified seeds can be produced for their own purposes. So if there are no restrictions then there's simply no reason for this article that's the most problematic. And secondly, something broader, why do you think commercialisation is without exception good, given biodiversity above all, so if we put everything in these market frameworks, then we really question biodiversity?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41415	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41416	Thank you, dear colleague Peovic, for asking. As far as art is concerned. 16, he needs a good reading, and I think he's the one. 16 shows certain things, when we look at it a little bit better that there are no limits to how much they seem or how much it may be potential in these discussions. As for the commercialisation of this fruit material itself, I stressed that I agree with the commercialization of fruit material, but that commercialisation must be under strict control of institutions that care about the health of this fruit material if you understand me because we all strive [[Intruder: Thank you, thank you, time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41417	No more replicas, thank you very much. And now it's Madam. Ankica Dragon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41418	Dear Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with co-workers, colleagues and fellow MPs. The existing Seed and Fruit Material Act and the recognition of agricultural plant varieties was adopted in 2005. And after that, he had more changes and additions. This new proposed Seed and Fruit Material Act and the recognition of agricultural plant varieties will regulate and improve the system of production, placing on the market and importing of agricultural reproductive material, harmonize the competence of individual bodies in business, inspection and other issues of importance for the implementation of the single system of agricultural seed and distribution. That this law is important also to say that more than 460 natural and legal persons from associations, farmers, producers and professions took part in electronic consultation, where all have made their comments and suggestions, including in this first reading of the law. It is very important that the support of this bill has been given by a profession such as the Croatian Agronomic Society, the Society of Agronomials from Osijek, the Faculty of Agro-Biotechnical Sciences from Osijek, the Higher Economic School in Križevci and others. That this bill has raised a lot, a lot of dust, but most likely due to the fact that further illegal trade and perhaps black market are being denied. Agricultural reproductive material is the basis of production and the first link in the food production and supply chain, and quality seed and fruit material is one of the basic preconditions for successful return to agricultural production. The application of the law will not endanger the genetic diversity of traditional agricultural varieties, nor the survival of young OPGs and life in rural areas as it is envisaged to adopt national varieties of seeds and fruit material that will introduce old indigenous local and endangered varieties into the local market. Moreover, small producers, various associations and others that stand out by producing indigenous and traditional varieties in this way could produce and raise to a higher level and gain additional value from the production itself. Every year, about 20% of seeds in the plant production structure are of extremely low quality and therefore the necessary processing of seeds with healthy and quality seed material to prevent the spread of diseases, weeds and harmful organisms, while on the other hand making a higher, higher and more stable contribution. The new Seed Act does not restrict the use of domestic seed for its own purposes for non-commercial purposes, nor restricts the principles of organic production and therefore introduces the term seed from the agricultural holding. A harmonised view of the profession is the necessary processing of seeds from the agricultural holding because the embryo of the infected crops is toxic to humans and animals. All producers will not have to produce seeds, so not even small OPG producers, organic producers and will be exempt from processing and will not be obliged to do so, and this will also be done through these discussions, remarks and suggestions by final law and regulation. And there will be no loss of Croatian indigenous and traditional varieties and no small producers will be taken of production. Agricultural policy encourages our people to stay in the country and deal with agriculture, and therefore we must protect them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41419	Thank you, too. You have several replicas, the real replica was sought by Mrs Baricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41420	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues. In your presentation, you stated that the ministry is constantly conducting dialogue including the informal sector in working in working groups in the further protection and preservation of our indigenous varieties just as an article. 16, 11 and 17 are closely related to the certification of seeds today caused the most objections, so after a series of remarks on the Committee on Agriculture, today here in the Assembly it is obvious that this article will. 16. There is a need for some later nomotechnical writing to be equally understandable to all who and how small economies are completely excluded and the obligations of certification of seeds and seed production.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41421	Thank you, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41422	Thank you, colleague Baricevic. I agree with you, related to your findings and only the question since a public debate has been held as I have already said e-Advise here and through this e-Advocacy there has been a lot of remarks and suggestions and suggestions to protect our indigenous traditional Croatian seed and through all these remarks, here in today's debate where we are today. The 16th had to say some technical remarks, and I hope that by the final law and technical shortcomings will be removed.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41423	Thank you. Mr. Yankee.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41424	Dear fellow Dragon Man. In your speech, you mentioned several of our institutions that were manifested and positively obvious to the bill, one of them is, in any case, the High School of Economics in the Križevci i.e. The famous Agricultural School in Križevci, you talked about the addition of fruit material where they say it is just finishing the most important step in the seed production process and will ensure that these laws ensure the use of quality and health-regular seeds. We're talking about a seed that goes to the market, and we're not talking about that seed we use in our own personal production. Can you comment a little?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41425	Thank you, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41426	Thank you, Mr. and colleague of the Yankees. As far as the profession is concerned, the Križevci School has just included its own and positive sides where it has said that some normal instructions and suggestions, that seed should be processed, is one of the praises for the initiative, and to ensure that healthy proper seeds are not only domestic but also for the other market, is not only for the meaning of domestic farming.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41427	Thank you, no more replicas, thank you very much. Now it's Mr. Stipan Sashlin's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41428	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here is another law that practically brings the Croatian judiciary into line with the EU's judiciary and I personally consider it good and necessary because if we are part of this EU and part of the single European market, it is normal for us to and act in accordance with the rules of the European market and the environment in which we live. But that is not the most important thing about this law, I think it is much more important that this law practically introduces order in the production and use of seeds, especially in our own or domestic production. To confirm that or to support some facts, I will give you some examples that unfortunately we are still witnesses. In fact, still one smaller one, though a smaller number so-called. It is common for agricultural producers to reduce the costs or entry costs of agricultural production not only to use quality or prescribed seeds but often not to respect agritechnical measures or deadlines, etc., we have witnessed that certain agricultural areas are often not over-orientated for several years, but are only sauced which leads to degradation of agricultural soil, compaction, impermeability, increases in rodent pests, etc. in that soil and simply these are phenomena that cannot be tolerated nowadays. On such surfaces, seeds that are not prescribed or so-called seeds are often used. Even then, even if the situation is worse, adequate machinery is often not used, not radiating, but simply dispersing the seed, cloning or clogging, and the most important thing is to achieve that reference contribution in order to achieve the incentive. It's really unacceptable, it just can't be tolerated anymore. And that's why we have insufficient certain productions and yields that we have. I'm talking about a smaller number of cases, not most. In order to avoid this, this law practically contributes in part because one who pays and sows quality seeds in some way is guaranteed to apply other agrotechnical measures and to suppress weeds and all to achieve a quality contribution, to achieve a quality product and thus to be competitive and justified and therefore economically cover its cost of production. For this very reason, what I have now cited as one example, I think that this law, or those producers who are engaged in large agricultural production, is actually using certified seeds, and they should not be afraid or touched at all. On the other hand also those smallest producers with which here are often mentioned that they will not be able to use their seeds etc., they also do not refer to it because it is in art. 16 said that those who are not in the ARCOD system recorded means those grandmothers etc. which have the surfaces of their little gardens etc. It simply does not apply to them, and it is not true that they will not be able to sow their seeds. On the other hand, those who wish to produce and sell seeds or place them on the market must have some kind of paper for that seed. We can't say now it comes to the seed market that has absolutely no certificate and then we know what's happening to us. The best example I'll give you a few years ago is correct in Baranja with the fruity wine vine material that happened, people bought fruity material, seedlings, vaccines that were meant to say suspicious origin, and only after three years when the first generation was, and we know what that means in the vines only then they saw that the completely wrong variety did not get that sort of thing they were looking for. And who do they turn to? They just don't have any certificates, they don't have anyone to ask for protection. That's why the laws and the state's role is to protect their people from these malfeasances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41429	Thank you. You have replicas. The first line was requested by Mrs. Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41430	Thank you. Dear colleague Shashin. So you mentioned malfeasance and manipulation of agricultural land, so you don't respect agrotechnical measures, you don't care about the quality of seeds used during sowing, do you think you can afford such things as cattlemen? Cattlemen produce food exclusively in order to feed their cattle on the holding or in fact it is about those who have received the arals of a fertile country just from municipalities and approved by the ministries, and the goal is actually to achieve as many kunas as possible through support and as little spending as possible in the production itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41431	Thanks for asking. I think I've been precise enough to say that it's a very small number, relatively small number of them, but unfortunately there are still some. As far as cattlemen are concerned, you know my point of view that absolute support for cattle farmers or final production in agriculture should be given. Unfortunately, the fact is that just in wartime, we have the largest number of those who manipulate, speculate, etc. For it was through incentives, and all together was the easiest in war until now.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41432	Thank you. Mr. Yankee.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41433	Dear colleague Shashin. Since I come from northwestern Croatia, back a few years ago, there was a golden jaundice or phytoplasm carried by American cricket in viticulture. It caused a lot of disturbances in the production of wine itself in the fact that many serious winemakers had to cut down significant squares of their vineyards. The profession suspects that just uncontrollable imports of bad fruit material brought this American cricket through means fruit material and that fruit material without control does us great harm.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41434	Thank you, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41435	Thank you, fellow Yankee. Indeed, we are often witnessing that just through the fruity material of a particular infectious disease, they bring or transmit and infect areas that have not been infected until then. Right here, I'm really there from that wine-growing area of Baranja and I've been constantly to the agricultural producers and here in this time since it's been in circulation of this bill, I haven't had any case, not just me, but not one parliamentary representative from Slavonia who is here, that agricultural producers have complained about the proposal of this law. Indeed, they see it in a way that helps themselves or protects themselves in production.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41436	And Mrs. McNally. Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41437	And well, you're talking about preventing disease, about the need for farmers to be competitive, but here my accent was on farmers and those living in rural areas that are hungry. So people who really live in poverty, they're more than 30% in rural areas, and as I said, we can count on that figure to spread especially with climate change when we're going to have to take local food production more seriously. So if you're saying this strengthens competitiveness, can this strengthen food sovereignty? Can this strengthen the possibility that these 30% people stop being hungry? They literally live off the food they make themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41438	Thank you, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41439	Thanks for asking. I don't think it's a good idea for us here in the assembly to say things like that that just don't stand. I'm really going to tell you that in rural areas, in rural areas, it's very difficult to find people who are starving. Those are very difficult words from people who are starving. I'm not saying there may not be somewhere in the cities, etc. people, but in rural areas, precisely because everyone can afford enough supplies through their own production, I think there are very, very few cases and this is solved through the social programs of local self-government, etc. So I wouldn't use a dictionary like that to starve in Slavonia and Baranja.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41440	And the last replica, well, the last replica of Mrs. Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41441	Thank you very much. Comrade Shashin, you were talking about the occurrences of the disease, the most frequently mentioned smelly snow, what farmers tell me is that in fact about 10% of the seeds are not certified for wheat, that they are doing it themselves, and that it would be very important to allow the Seed Act to be flexible and processed. Do you think it would help farmers and, in some ways, direct them to go into the production of their seeds in order to prevent disease from occurring if the team would allow themselves to work together on a family economy, of course under strict conditions or also to be through art. 1. Perhaps hiring agronomists for a certain period of time so that some larger family economies can meet these conditions?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41442	Answer, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41443	Here, thank you, colleague. Well, it is indeed a fact that if we have 60 so far somewhere registered for doping or certification, we will probably have to increase that number in view of the need to get close to agricultural producers in some way so that they can handle it at some local level. Surely it's not good for someone to wear wheat from Baranja, I don't know, New City for certification. It also means opening new jobs, new centres, so there's also those good sides, to say all that, right? Whether it will be possible to do so at home, given the conditions, etc., more difficult, perhaps with these larger manufacturers, they will certainly do so in a way that they themselves register or meet the conditions for certification but these young ones will probably not be able to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41444	Thank you very much. No more replicas, thank you. Now it's Mrs. Devereaux's turn. Romana Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41445	Thank you, Vice President of the Parliament. Today we are discussing the proposal for a law on seeds, fruit material and the recognition of varieties of agricultural plants. Such a bill has been adopted, the cultivation of domestic Croatian varieties will be completely eradicated because agricultural reproductive material will have to pass the certification process before placing it on the market. This law does not protect the interest of small OPGs and manufacturers but neither do consumers who want to eat healthy, domestic, organically produced vegetables. We all agree that there must be some rules, however, but this story with seeds and certification is not good for Croatian agriculture and it is the impression that the competent ministry does not understand it at all. It violates the right to seed by international documents recognised as human beings, endangers the genetic diversity of crops and increases dependence on the import of seeds, with the reason that the local seed yields smaller yields and spreads diseases and calls it an ugly name "tavanusha" and thus declares that small producers are excluded from certification and from processing as well as from organic production. The certified seed and certification of production are two different, the production of seeds is not disputed if that agricultural producer who will place these seed goods on the market is bound to complete seed products, but it is not fair to burden smaller farmers who use their seeds for their own purposes. Farmers do not want to buy certified seeds because they have their own, and they are constantly forced to answer that they do not need to verify production. It is assumed that far greater damage will result from a potential lack of seed than from a potential problem that may cause unprocessed semen disease. Big manufacturers won't have a problem with doping because of the infrastructure and logistics they already own, but what about those who don't have it, the little ones? Seeds to be shipped to the plant should be packed, delivered to the harvest, repacked and returned to the storage site and applied to the ground. These are already costs that burden smaller producers, and where the cost is also for the process of finishing. Seed prices grow year after year, it is expected that even after the price has been finished, so I ask the question who will, how and when, and when, replace it to a small farmer? Is this process planned to co-finance fully or not? Also what's not provided for in the law, and what gets into the eyes is what will farmers do with that waste after they're finished? By "waste," I mean "stupid grain" and "break the grain," who's gonna take care of it? There isn't a letter in the law about that either. From this point on, the proposal requires further development in a way that rights are not devoid of anyone and that diseases in our fields be prevented, but therefore legal proposals and dialogue with associations need to be completed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41446	Thank you, too. You have replicas, Mr. Hajdukovic's first line.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41447	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Nikolic. You've been talking a lot about getting the seeds done and I find it interesting to notice one thing and a little bit to get your discussion through that argument. Namely, the ruling saying that the seed has to go to work because it can contain toxins that can be toxic to humans, to culture itself, etc., but look at the illogicalities of this explanation, but small producers don't have to do what their seed can then not be toxic to people and to culture itself? So, they use half-arguments, incorrect arguments, so either it goes all the way to do it for these reasons or it doesn't go anything, and if you're using seed just to shine it again, I really don't see why it would have to go to work. The other thing is if you want to put it on the market then I support dorado and then it has to be standard, but this just doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41448	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41449	Thank you, Agent Hajdukovic. Well, that definitely doesn't make any sense about that part of the law. But I'd just like to get ahead of myself, not to mention that this year is particularly specific, the agricultural producers that bought corn seeds haven't agreed yet last fall are hardly going to reach corn seeds at all, so there's almost no mission. In that position, the chronic scarcity of seeds is insane to further complicate things, and nothing is better with other seed goods.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41450	Thank you. Mr. Vukas.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41451	Comrade Nikolic, I see you are troubled by what will be part of that seed that goes to work. It'll stay for the farmers and they'll sell it for cattle, so don't worry. Those in whom they are forced to carry seed to dorado will always draw some benefit, charge them for dora, and the rest will sell through cattle food because they themselves will not be able to see at all what the shortage is or what it is in some way a shear or a waste. But second thing I'm worried about, maybe really in this famous change of law where there's a ruling helping these small farmers, maybe it's part of the government's project and strategy "Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem" and maybe we're really all stupid is really there's something genius hiding where these little producers are actually going to succeed, in fact, the government is going to be able to eliminate them all the way.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41452	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41453	Thank you, Agent Vukas. So I'm genuinely interested as farmers in what's going to happen to that seed waste, whether it's going to come back to them or it's going to stay with the farmers, and how and how it's going to take care of it because it's not true that there's no waste, and there's gonna be 10 to 15% of that waste. Then what do we do about it? It's not in the law or the letter of it at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41454	And the last replica of Mr. Price.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41455	Dear colleagues. Meeting the day that today's law will be discussed, many of our fellow citizens from the area of my 2nd constituency who spoke against this, felt that this was not a good law, that it would harm small producers. I'd like to ask you, do you think that in any way can help small farmers, or is that going to be a shame to them? Do you think this goes in favor of small farmers or large producers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41456	Thank you, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41457	Thank you, Agent Price. So the law provides for the handover of its own seed to an authorised producer and to pay and to be completed if the farmer wants to use it himself. So the manufacturer will have to pay someone to actually get the right to sow their own seed. It doesn't make any sense. If he doesn't want to, then he'll have to buy an import seed that's of course we don't actually know what quality it's going to be, it's actually a problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41458	Thank you. No more replicas, thank you very much. Now it's Mr. Zeljko Lenart's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41459	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Today, we have listened to everything about this law, about seed production, and even about the agricultural production and technology we have listened to lectures from. But what I would like to stress, however, is that this law that we cannot be hypocritical of anyone, this is an important law for the Republic of Croatia, for agricultural producers and for agricultural production and for the attempt to achieve sufficient food production in the Republic of Croatia. The colleagues also cited the support of some scientific institutions as agronomic societies in Osijek. I said on the Committee on Agriculture that I would be ashamed to be a member of such an agronomic society, given the professors who taught me at the Faculty of Agriculture and what they taught us and referred us to, these agronomic society colleagues do not at all support the village but support those who do so in seed and seed processing means pure interest support. Also, the Agricultural Institute of Osijek, type in the search engine, and you will see what they do, what they produce, and it will be clear to you why they support it. But I didn't see the support of the Faculty of Agriculture in Zagreb. I think the Faculty of Agriculture is the strongest educational institution in terms of agriculture in the Republic of Croatia, so I'm probably against this law for studying and finishing the Faculty of Agriculture, not some other school. What is used under farm seeds are wheat, soybeans, barley, and teeth, and such things that are in a small amount. Corn, no one uses corn as farm seed because corn on the market that is sown is a hybrid and by taking grains from that hybrid and by sowing you don't know what you're going to get. But this year, a colleague mentioned the problem of seed material in corn in those most desirable hybrids for sowing that there was a shortage. The shortage has arisen because a certain portion of the seed has gone to another part of the world, and we have been denied it a little bit, so it will have to sow those who have not yet found their way, they will have to shine what they have on the market. And what do you think would happen if unfavourable climate conditions had to repeat the seed of corn, so what would we do about it? We have nothing to do with another crop because there are not enough seeds on the market, and the one from the drought won't pop up and that's something that proves to you what the problem is and what a problem can arise when well it's not managed by seed production and when it's not allowed for farmers to make sure they have their own seeds or at least a spare of seeds. Agricultural seed will be and after the adoption of this law only it will not be legal and farmers will shine it and you must be aware of it and you will not do anything with this law, you will only cause them to have problems with them with various inspections. And I don't think it's necessary to do that because the house will and this 20% that's supposed to be sowing farm seed. All the time we're talking about autochton seeds, grandmothers, small gardens, so if you're thinking of developing agricultural production on grandmothers, in small gardens, every honor to those women who, in late years, have to go to the market to make up for those little pensions they're getting, then we're mistaken. So the OPGs should be the basis for the agriculture of the Republic of Croatia, and they should all be allowed to work because they are the fastest to turn and adapt to emerging situations both climate and other problems that arise in this segment of agriculture. I hope you'll clear up until the second reading and realize that we need to keep the seeds. Remember that the strongest economies of the world have a bank where the seeds of the day of judgment are placed, and we unfortunately do not have to keep seeds what is most important and fundamental to us from culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41460	Thank you. You have a few replicas, Mr. Lenart. So she's the first lady. Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41461	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, under this law. 16. Our small producers are waiting for complicated procedures, additional costs, and it is also a question of the capacity of growers or seed growers in the Republic of Croatia. We are constantly calling for harmonisation with the EU directive, but some other countries have slightly simplified the procedure, for example Austria and Slovenia. Therefore, their procedure is easy to enroll on a variety of varieties without the actual and commercial value, meaning varieties that are traditional, which are not cost-effective and are not competitive to larger producers, thus safeguarding the genetic diversity of a large number of these varieties. Why didn't Croatia go into that simpler procedure? I think the fact is that these articles really need and the whole law needs to be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41462	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41463	Autochthon seed is a comparative advantage of a particular narrow area, and that is exactly what we should insist on in the ministry that as much as possible of such seeds be sown and produced and sold on the market. This law will not sell the power, you will be able to shine in your garden for your personal consumption, but you will not be able to bring the power to the market, and the people in the market who come looking for it, someone today mentioned the ox heart or such a domestic variety, they will no longer be because there are no certified seeds of these species. Dorada, here in my hands I have watermelons made in China, the company is from the Netherlands, treated, not treated, so no treatments, not protected against any disease. Who says they didn't send us anything?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41464	Mr. Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41465	Dear colleague Lenart, you have pointed out on several occasions that the seed issue is a geostrategic issue but you have also said in your statement that family farms must be the basis of Croatia's agriculture. I would just confirm that and my opinion because in a round of relationships, land, air, sun, water, man and seed come such warring, such gardening cultures of particular characteristics in a particular area. These characteristics of these species are in our memory, in our images, so I would eventually conclude and say that something much more important is that by losing these species or by replacing these species, we are actually losing the identity of this people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41466	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41467	Comrade Hrell, you're right. By losing indigenous species, we lose our identity. Remember and consider and conclude, however you will, that the village, the family economies preserved just some culture, our costume, the customs we see today, but such a village preserved that unfortunately some of the shames that escaped from the village, went to town, are now ashamed that they were in the country and that they were grown up and I think they should be proud when they grow up in the country and believe me that big farmers, and they don't care about culture and customs, they do business, money comes first, and they don't care whether we have indigenous cultures or not. When you buy tomatoes in the center and you see it spelling grappolo, it's your rock tomatoes,... who is on artificial food, who has neither seen nor seen the sun, [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because the foil protects him, try that taste and go to the market to buy and you'll see the difference. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41468	Thank you very much. Mr. Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41469	Your Honor, I must confess that you always delight me with your discussions and the simplicity of showing the indifferences written in our agriculture laws. I heard today that you're an agronomist, I believe that since I know you're also a large agricultural producer, that you have a large amount of food production, annually if I'm not mistaken, 250 tons, right, means that you're directly bound to these laws that they directly hit you, tell me that you may have found some kind of research regarding the consequences of changes of varieties in Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41470	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41471	Well, here, no, I didn't, I didn't find the research, so you said I was agronomist, and I'm not reading what I'm talking about, I'm living it. And my colleagues and friends that I hang out with, they live with it, too. And be a peasant, invest your money in production, buy a repromation that has a fixed price and then look into the sky and when that year passes and get to the product and put it in a silo or a warehouse, and then depend again on some large interest groups that form the price. Let me just caricate how this applies. In the harvest, corn was 1 kn, dry, and 2 months. It was 1.40 in the back. Who profited? Not manufacturers.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41472	Thank you. No more replicas, thank you very much. It's time to go now, ma'am. Rose, Rose, I'm sorry, Wolf. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41473	Vice President... So, according to some estimates, even half of the grain seeds used by EU farmers make up exactly the seed that farmers themselves produce. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] There is therefore no basis for introducing a concept into a law relating to a single crop group, i.e. cereals because in the context proposed by this law, it means restrictions on absolutely all crop groups that are grown. The claim that the ban on the cultivation of seeds on the holding of sorates chosen by the manufacturer is a necessary measure to protect against plant diseases, does not comply with existing laws and rules in the field of plant health or the choice of variety, has to do with the spread of plant diseases. However, some domestic varieties and local populations are more resistant to plant diseases than varieties intended for industrialised agriculture and intensive agrotechnics. This is also recognised in some rules and regulations, I mention the organic production regulation and the labelling of organic products, and then such varieties are particularly evaluated in organic production. The order to take measures to prevent the spread and eradication of smelly snow has been in force since 2013 and allows the use of its own seed if a laboratory examination is carried out and does not require the obligation of completion in an authorised grower. The public is not presented with an expert study showing that the smelly snow of cereals is a significantly greater problem for us in Croatia than in other countries on which it would then be justified and to take stricter measures than other EU countries have. Then the Regulation on agricultural plant species whose seed must be treated with fungicide, therefore which was published in 2001, also applies to cereals and several cultures of industrial plants and all the necessary activities, manufacturers may carry out on the holding and without additional costs and complications. On the other hand, the UN Declaration on the Rights of Peasants and Other Persons working in rural areas, which Croatia is also obliged to respect, defines in its article. 19th explicitly, it is stated, among other things, that the state is obliged to recognise the rights of peasants to rely on their own seed or on other locally available seed according to their own choice and to decide on crops and species that they wish to cultivate. Closure in this context means total control of everything that a person sows for his own needs and many of the actions necessary for the control of plant health or cultivation for his own needs. During the period from 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2017, the manufacturer shall submit a report to the competent authority of the competent authority of the Member State of the Member State concerned. Of course, it costs, and depending on where the economy is located, it also creates logical problems because service repairs are not available in all counties, so the farmer will rarely have to move hundreds of miles to take the seeds to completion and carry out everything that he has been able to successfully carry out on his own economy so far in accordance with existing rules in the field of plant health and the rights of the processor. The dorado itself says it's not expensive, but a rough calculation we've heard only on wheat, we're talking about over 33 million kuna. But transport is a very large and serious cost. The whole system of finishing was designed and has so far functioned within a system of production and processing of larger quantities for the market. This system cannot monitor the needs of farmers and small quantities that they would bring to work, for the purposes of family economies with the aim of protection against diseases and weeds, a smaller service system should be designed as a possibility, but not as an obligation. The production capacity could, for example, be ensured through rural development measures as an additional activity in the economy, but without the obligation to hire experts in a permanent working relationship when finishing is carried out only a few months a year at a time when the seed is prepared for sowing. This could be a proposal to consider our representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41474	Thank you. You've got a replica. Mrs. Vesna Vucilovic has her first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41475	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Vukovac. Tell us, is there something similar about European legislation and what other EU countries prescribe something similar to this? And what do you think of those who supply us with seeds as well as producers of protective products? PP is in this context if you can look around a little bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41476	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41477	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Vucilović. So the debate itself has come up with several questions or replicas to the representative of the Ministry of Agriculture in this direction, whether there is a similar regulation within the EU, or what we are in line with EU directives here. Unfortunately, I did not get an answer to that question because there is no similar law at EU level and it is precisely the EU that allows its farmers to produce their own seed on the holding and place it or use it in further own production. In particular, I will highlight the example of cattlemen who do so for the production of food that they later use to feed their cattle. It is brutal to impose new costs on them and ask them to drive seed for the next hundred kilometers and thus collect already threatened milk production in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41478	Mr. Shashin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41479	Your Honor, Vice President. My fellow Members, I agree absolutely with you that preserving the variety is very important for the state, for the nation, for everyone in the fruit industry, for the warfare and for the livestock industry. But I think we need to be very careful here and in some way we need to define what amounts are needed to preserve a particular variety so that it doesn't happen to us as it happens in time and in livestock, that it is more worth growing Istrian cattle or underels or something than a symental breed or something of some kind that we need in economic terms for the development of agriculture and livestock. That's why I think we need to be very careful here with seeds and fruit species so that we don't get that case all over again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41480	Answer, please. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41481	I'd like to thank my colleague, Shashin. So, I can also agree with you, but we cannot influence these opportunities, in fact, representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture should influence them, or clearly define through the Agriculture Development Strategy, what these are strategic objectives of food production or agricultural production in the Republic of Croatia. I can only sum up that so far we've missed every target and so far we've done far more damage that we haven't regulated anything, that we've left all the farmers alone to make it the way their answers would have food production. Unfortunately, we don't have it today, and we're mostly based on imports. And laws like this that are now on the agenda only contribute to that.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41482	Mr. Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41483	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Vukovac. Here's a layman's question. When the old Romans came to Posjek Koolin, they called it Vallis Aurea or Golden Valley, I suppose, because of the endless grain fields. Well, as we managed to have endless crop fields a few thousand years ago, planting these ancient seed varieties, and today here we have this bright, sorry, unregulated, but a bill of legislation, and the Slavonic fields are almost staring at us empty. How did our old man manage to create the golden Slavonia and the golden Baranja, and today it's not working?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41484	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41485	I thank my colleague Dretar. Yes, an interesting link, indeed our old ones knew it seems much more than we do today with all the knowledge available. But here I am now going to mention a memo that we all got, the profession signed, but actually it wasn't the profession that signed, but the party colleagues signed, party colleagues of the ruling who defend these laws that go to the harm of the village. Of course, only something negative, positive, can come from all of this. I would certainly like to commend all those of us not old from the time of the Romans but to return a dozen, 20 years back and ask these people how they produced, how they protected their seeds, their production, their crops, their own country. We don't do it, we don't ask manufacturers anything, we make laws without them, and then we're surprised the village's going down.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41486	And finally, Mr. Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41487	Dear MPs, here we have heard from your presentation, a large number of EU countries are actually protecting their indigenous varieties, trying to protect everything they once had, up to, unlike us in Croatia who, unfortunately, forbid it all together, we prescribe some sort of list that came from Europe and we don't even consider what we actually have at home, which is healthy and good. Now imagine this situation if we had, say, old varieties of apples that shouldn't be sprayed, that shouldn't be protected. It's just like in the pharmaceutical industry, the pharmaceutical industry isn't interesting and they're not interested in having a healthy nation, so even the plant protection industry doesn't care that there are plants that shouldn't be protected. And it's actually the root of everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41488	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41489	I thank you for asking my colleague Pavić. Yeah, I'll agree with most of what you said. Indeed, the EU is aware that agriculture can only survive if the manufacturer is competitive and all their regulations go in that direction. Why Croatia does not notice what is the situation on the ground, which is happening to us in fruit production, which in vegetable, which in livestock, which may be the most important because it produces two of the most important foods, which are meat and milk, we have made of our farmers people who are burdened in several ways, not just administratively. They have to be physical workers, they have to go to the field, they have to be in the barn, they have to be managers, they have to be on the Internet, paperwork, it's impossible, it's simple, I think I should congratulate all those who survived, in any kind of production, let's congratulate them because they survived.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41490	Thank you. No more replicas, thank you very much. Now it's Mr. Goran Ivanovic's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41491	... I come from Slavonia, Baranja and Srijema, and I don't have to stress it anymore, so I'm going to start with a verse of Vienna, it wouldn't be bad for this afternoon, to calm your heart and soul, and people will still shine the ceiling. [[Specially enabled.]] [[Intruder: microphone.]] Well, just under different rules and in a different way. This law, as soon as it came to the Committee on Agriculture, was seen by the members of the Committee and I must commend it here, and I said so in my replicas and State Secretary Majdak and Minister, and in particular the chairman of the Committee of Mrs. Marijana Petir who really realized that there would be some problems when it comes to art. The 16 that's totally going through the debates here, while we have an art. 46 about the fruit material that speaks clearly of these people who are these. 16 aren't covered. And I really don't see that there should be any objection that these people on this side of the assembly are somewhat smaller Slavons, Barans, or Sremites, so they don't protect the interests of those people from where they come from. So you really think that we who come from Slavonia, Baranja and Srijema don't think every day when we go here to HS- here this morning I'm headed at 5 and 20 and there's no nicer country than that of our Slavonian country and when you drive here to Zagreb and you know you're going to go to the Parliament, you're thinking about what you're going to say to those people who sent you to HS are going to be the self-port in what they need most, which is, of course, the changes, the addition of the laws, the new regulations in which we have to protect those who sent us here to HS. Seeds are complex matter. There's been a lot of debate here, actually, I'm not going to say amateur, but in one way that's more theatrical than it's scientifically proven. I'm not a seed expert myself, I'd recognize, unlike most MPs, at least 10 or 15 kinds of seeds, but I don't consider myself an expert in that category. This is where some old sort of thing was mentioned. Do you know how many grains were produced per hectare by 1960? Out of a ton and a half, whoever pulled two tons, he was a record player. And you know how many grains are now produced per hectare? Where's a good country, say werewolf-sremish. Between 8 and 11 tons per hectare, therefore, let's not mix apples and plums and say that everything before was good, excellent, and now it's nothing good. This article. 16. has caused a lot of controversy and in our committee debate, here, sitting here members of the board and I can confirm it and I am sure that by supplementing or modifying this article. 16 and that all those people who have really participated in the public debate, who are direct producers, direct people involved in this law will say that it will be implemented in the amendments to this law and that in the end it will be satisfied absolutely everyone and neither is Minister Vukkovic the worst minister, as is said here, in the history of the Croatian state nor is State Secretary Majdak a state enemy who wants to pass some laws that apply only to him, nor is he some Monsanto commercial traveler, as is spoken here and called. That's not good. This is a serious topic, and it needs to be discussed seriously, the profession has said it, it does not need to be underestimated, of course the Institute in Osijek, all those institutions that have contributed significantly to making Croatian agriculture look different today than it did before. Whether it is ideal, it is not, whether it can be better, it must be better, it is our task that we have come here to the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia to change it, but not the HDZ representatives, but the representatives of all of us who come from Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem, and from all of Croatia, in the end, that when we leave this House in 4, 3 years. Or two, it doesn't matter when we can say it, so here's what we did was we took part in something that brought good to our end and our producers, and that's some kind of reference that we might end up giving ourselves, and maybe someone will admit it to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41492	Thank you. Stay. Mr. Shimičević's first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41493	Thank you, Vice President HS. Here I do not know how much Slavonians love Slavonia, I Dalmatian worship Slavonia, so I am very glad that Slavonia is often debated here. This law was passed in 2005 and there have been some attempts at change and I think we should also commend the ministry here which actually came into play and do, make order in this law. I know that this is the first reading and that there are certain illogicalities, so we are here to discuss it and to do the best thing because I believe that there is no one here in the assembly but in all of Croatia that will pass some law that is going to harm Croatian citizens, or Croatian farmers, and I believe that many things will be removed. But please give me a comment. Article 16, i.e. In 46, which are often mentioned here, and there are certain illogicalities in there that should change until the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41494	Thank you, Mr. Shimičević. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41495	Thank you very much, here is Honorable Representative Simičević, of course there is no successful agriculture without good laws that contribute to agriculture, and it is clear absolutely everyone, first it should be us sitting here and I still think that unfair commercial practices absolutely destroy all the pores of Croatian society, destroy most of those small ones, such are the most in Slavonia and Baranja and Srijem, and ultimately in all of Croatia. I said, "Art." 16 when it comes to seeds is slightly different from the art. In 46, which speaks of fruit material, and these are some things that are important, let it be just as it is here in art. 46th and I think absolutely everyone will be pleased. And the minister is also yesterday if I'm not wrong about the secretary of state and you have one round table with people who are directly bound by this law, they have reached a certain agreement and I am sure that in the second reading we will have a law that will be proud of all those who will eventually end up talking about what we are talking about and dealing with in their... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41496	Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Vucijlović.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41497	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Ivanovic, I left Slavonia this morning, and I'm not quite as old as you at dawn, but I came on time. It's a shame we don't have a real railroad, so let's get on the train and drive 200 an hour, not 60 miles a train from Osijek to Koška. But let's go back to the Seed Act now. And you said here that the law needs to be done. Therefore, we all agree that the law as it arrived on our benches is not what it should be. The fact is that the most important thing is that we are not self-sufficient in the production of meat, or milk, or fruit, or vegetables. And the basic and fundamental question is whether our farmers will, by virtue of this law, shine their tails more, so they may once again start working sugar in Osijek or remain closed from now on and on, and I don't think there's going to be a shift.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41498	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41499	Thank you very much. I absolutely agree with the railway, we used to drive to Zagreb "Podravkom" so-called "Podravkom". Is that right in about 3 hours and 10 minutes total, but I am sure through these projects that go and this connection with Slavonia with Zagreb is one of the priorities. I'm going to go back to what I just said and I'm going to do it all over again here. When it comes to sugar and sugar, it is totally unfair commercial practices that lead to you simply at the price of sugar found in retail you cannot have competitive production and that is, every economist and every layman economically will agree that you can't buy sugar at 4 kuna and 30 lip in retail, and that you have a competitive price of sugar beet production as the most demanding culture in agriculture in general. Therefore, unfair commercial practices must be number one and the priority of all our efforts to solve this problem, and then agriculture will certainly be much, much better and more successful, of course and good laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41500	Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41501	Thank you very much. Col. Ivanovic, there are different practices of regulating this issue in different Member States, and, for example, Slovenia and Austria allow their farmers to sow uncertified seeds for their own needs, this is not the case in Hungary and Latvia where exclusively certified seeds must go to the market. They could also comment on the principles of improvement that differ in Member States. That means that we actually need, there is no uniform model, we need to look for a model that will prove to us effective and good. I think it is important that we have opened a wide dialogue on the Committee on Agriculture and that we have received feedback from the Ministry of Agriculture that they are ready to respect our comments and that the law is ready to clarify and nomotechnically edit in those areas where the most reluctance is and make it more flexible. Here's the question: Is that right, so I'd like to hear your opinion, do you believe the promises we received on the Committee on Agriculture?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41502	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41503	Thank you very much. I listened very carefully to your discussion on behalf of the club and individually, and that's about it. I think it's summed up here, it's all said and I'd like to see any parliamentary MP that won't agree, I think that's clear. Of course, by passing a law that will apply to the Republic of Croatia, we need to know our mentality, we need to know our own people, we can prescribe laws from some other countries, but that's us. Croatia is unique all over the world and must be unique in all things, so when it comes to what we are talking about today, but in a way that you can say your own. And both the profession and the people who deal with it in a broad public debate, in one perhaps a sharp controversy, we come up with the best solution and we get a law that will then improve what we're talking about all the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41504	Thank you. Mr. Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41505	Dear colleague, we are often inclined to criticise and listen to criticism about everything new, anything that should change the way we think so far. You have here provided an interesting piece of information that agriculture produced per hectare of the '60s, '70s, '80s, and how many tons are now produced per hectare. So we all agree and I think there's a consensus here that the law needs to be done in this point 16 and I think it's going to go that way. But it certainly needs to be taken into account that technology, science and everything has its effect and that our legislation must be adapted and that we are now one of the Member States of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41506	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41507	Thank you very much. Of course, without science, there is no progress and that is clear. We can be in Osijek, in our Slavonia proud of our and the Institute and finally our Faculty of Bioagritechnical Sciences which will certainly create personnel who can improve agriculture. And I will commend one important decision from the Ministry of Agriculture since last year or before, where every student is 2nd, 3rd, 4th and 5th year at the Faculty of Osijek has a thousand kuna from the Ministry of Agriculture. And that is how we encourage young people to study agrobiotechnical sciences and to be the leaders and better successful agricultural production in our region.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41508	Mrs. Grmat Kizavitt.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41509	Thank you. When you say that the opposition speaks theatrely about this law, you start your debate with the beyar. So it's a matter of personal taste and choice. But there's no opposition here just to yell because it's an opposition. We were met outside by protesters. You probably saw them? It's not just about us talking so we can talk. Also when they were sugared in this opposition sitting there, the first one started yelling at all the bells and yelling that something was wrong. We finally sat down at the table, we started talking, there was a solution. No yelling, no yelling, no yelling, you didn't hear us. I would also now ask you this way as Slavonka, the same Slavonka who came from Slavonia. How do you comment that the concept of seed from the holding does not exist in any of the European Union's directives or in any of the European Union's Member States' legislation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41510	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41511	Thank you very much. I just did the opposite when I came for the pay phone. I wasn't yelling, I wasn't yelling, I was singing. So, I think it's important to prove that it's not in my interest to shout or yell, but rather dialogue that can be conducted. Someone has, you've had that performance today a little bit with what's good. Maybe it's someone's ear. They're indigenous varieties and all that. What I'm going to tell you about the end here. In fact, I appreciate everyone sitting here and everything they say has the same right as any of us here, and I absolutely don't have those problems. As far as this is concerned, and Ms. Mariana Petyr has repeated it several times, and I am sure that in the end we will have exactly what you have ended up with, and I will end up with this article 16 being what we all want it to be and that everyone will be happy with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41512	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. And now it's Mr. Davor Dretar's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41513	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I'll try to keep the topic as much as possible in my brief presentation. But I’m not so sure that the offerings of more than 10 tons of wheat per hectare are ideal. We can see for ourselves that hyper-produces the maximum capacity of the country, or its fertility, by bringing erosion or destruction of the soil, excessive use of chemical resources, and then, consequently, this huge amount of wheat also causes problems with the world market’s supply and demand relations, which are reasonably spilling over to the Croatian market, and to the position and existence of our farmers, primarily the warlords. I would also like to remind you of a special type of wheat seed that we produce in Croatia that is so-called missing wheat. Let us remember all 26 thousand tons of wheat that have disappeared from the stock reserves and have not been found to this day. If a car costs 100 tons, that's two hundred 60 cars. If the car is 20 metres long it is the length of the composition of 5.2 km of Croatian missing wheat. Where is he now, who knows? And I'll finish with one more question. What do people tell us when they want to ban the cultivation and use of seeds from their own economy? They're ordering, don't worry too much. We'll take care of you. I must ask myself, if we go this way blindly copying European directives, will we soon ban Grandma's strudel after Sunday lunch because it contains homemade eggs, local mill flour and apples from Grandma's garden? Why do we even put a lot of effort and money into creating products that are originally Croatian, why and then who has a Slavonic tower, a Samobor Salam, a Zagorje turkey, a Dubrovnik flower, an Istrian terran or a face-squeak? Apparently rich tourists, and we're going to eat here what and how we're prescribed. Even if I had to go into cataclysmic prognosis, I'd worry and ask, will he soon tell us what we're going to eat? Two years of stuff imported bread from a plastic bag, seven times defrosted meat from another continent, cloned GMO fruits and vegetables who knows where. Or at the very end of this wonderful idea why they don't just make us uniformed food packages for every resident we're going to raise once a week or a month on a local feeding grounds. Does that remind you of anything? Yeah. All we need is to introduce 7 commands and place above the front door of the feeding site the inscription "All are equal but some are more equal than others" and work on the principle of George Orwell will be completed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41514	Wait, you've got replicas. Two. [[Intruder Dretar: Thank you.]] - Mrs. Crescent. Vucimilović, first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41515	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Dretar, the fact is that we are self-sufficient only in these basic war cultures. But the question is, how smart is it to plant large quantities of cultures every year for an unknown buyer? Any disturbance in the market can be very negatively reflected. On the other hand, we've got a problem with wetted property, where one relatively small number of OPGs handles 20 ha and more. Everyone else is under there. And it's just basically, if you have 20 ha and more, you can kind of live off these basic war cultures. And these are the problems of our agriculture, and the encouraging ones that I'm not talking about, one minute is not enough for me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41516	Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41517	Thank you for asking, honourable MP Vucilovic. I am here in the Croatian Parliament as a representative of the Krapina-Zagorje County, one county that has small plots, it is difficult to round it all up and it is difficult to deal with the name of it only seriously, large agriculture, as is possible by the large parcels of Slavonia and Baranja. But, of course, Croatian Zagorje has and should have its own plan, precise and clear just by sticking to indigenous varieties, fruits and vegetables, primarily and others, we call them only smaller agricultural cultures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41518	- Mrs. Crescent. Grman Kizzwat.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41519	Thank you. Well, fellow Dretar, I just need to look back at your grandma's strudel. Well, you said well, maybe we could ban it, but I don't think that's why it's going to be necessary, given that the Ministry of Agriculture this year has passed a regulation regarding production-related support that imposes on such standards that our producers simply won't be able to do it to get any support. And on the other hand, by this law, I think they are very much preventing our producers from producing anything more in Croatia. I have to simply comment, I think your presentation was exactly the way it was shown that the situation was actually in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41520	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41521	Thank you, esteemed representative Grman Kisavit for this matter. I fully agree with you, that it cannot be satisfied with the way the ministry or the competent services work and that it cannot be satisfied with the direction in which the Croatian Government is leading Croatian agriculture. That's why we're here, that's why we're an opposition, to talk, not to attack, but to talk and try to warn that, after all, in our own perfection, the people who lead this country, especially in this profession, may be wrong. The fact is that sometimes as a member of the EU, we must, as we did by entering that family, lose some of our sovereignty, we must give in and we must allow this kind of thing. But the right of us to be in opposition is to be harsh against what they have finally shown and these protesters who have welcomed us here today. Thank you again for asking.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41522	Thank you, too. The replica is gone but before they answer...... Oh, no? Yes, before you responded to the replica, Mr. Lenart asked us why, the breach of the Rules of Procedure. ... [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] No, no, don't wait. ... [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Yeah, yeah, okay. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41523	Here, I'm calling in an article. 238, unfortunately, my colleague Dretar won't be able to answer me, and I don't know if his organized foster home will be organized. Or we'll be left to rain and dew. [[Who do you have it on? Wait, wait.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41524	Wait, wait, wait. 23, well, you have a warning, which is what you want me to say, I think. But you see this taking advantage of this law, just because you can't replicate anymore, I mean it's really not nice. ... It's not nice. It's not nice. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Here I thought I was being gentle. - Mrs. Crescent. Marina Opačak Bilic has his own debate, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41525	I thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. So here despite numerous reactions by both the public and the farmers themselves, despite numerous appeals, this bill did not experience any further work before joining the parliamentary procedure even though we had over 450 responses in e-consultation and by doing so. By accepting the proposal of those to whom this law applies, they could and should have avoided the illogical nature of which is clearly only an additional complexity of the work of agricultural producers. This morning, as we saw, each of us coming to the workplace was welcomed by a group of protesters from the initiative "Seme is our human right", who shared the text of their opinions and received a copy of the indigenous Croatian seeds of old varieties. Today I want to be the voice behind this speaker of those who are seeking to ensure seed rights as prescribed by the International Treaty on the Protection of Plant Genetic Resources for Food and Agriculture, so I will read you the text in the letter that I received this morning as well as you. So this is the opinion, attitude and text of an initiative numbering 32,000 farmers who say: Since the first publication of the bill, the initiative has warned that by introducing restrictions on the use of seeds used by farmers for its own purposes, it would have long-term negative consequences for Croatian agriculture. For example, similar restrictions already introduced for soybean producers show that as soon as seed purchase obligations are imposed on producers, prices on the market increase. Mandatory processing generates high costs, especially transport and processing, which affects large producers and in the vegetable sector, making it particularly difficult for the lack of capacity. It is also important that the new law recognises the value of an informal seed production system in economies, the exchange of seeds and people's banks of plant genes in achieving the protection of sustainable use and the dynamics of biodiversity management, as well as the resilience of the food system in crisis situations. It is equally necessary to ensure the participation, cooperation and presence of diverse manufacturers, processors, consumers and other food and seed participants, respecting their specific needs. So that's the text from this letter that we all received this morning. I ask you to consider the voice of those to whom this law applies. What I would like to mention is that I also asked Minister Vukkovic in a written question almost 60 days ago and I have not yet received an answer, as I did not receive an answer from the State Secretary Majdak this morning by which the Ministry of Agriculture will protect and preserve the plant genetic diversity of vegetables in the Republic of Croatia. Because the law imposes new restrictions on manufacturers using domestic seed in their economies and introduces the concept of seed from the family economy as a seed produced for their own needs that are prohibited from placing on the market, which in this context does not exist in European laws, which unequivocally means that this proposal is completely unnecessary to our farmers and that it discriminates against them in relation to other farmers from the Member States of the European Union. These provisions lead to the loss of domestic varieties that are not collected in the national bank of plant genes and, if this law is passed, many citizens will forget about the taste of real vegetables with everything our farmers face, we must not allow this.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41526	Thank you. Mr. Hajdukovic's first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41527	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I can't agree with you when you say this is a bad law. Didn't you hear this debate? The profession says this is an incredibly good law of experts and experts who are true are members of the HDZ, but they say this is great. So you're referring to some producers, some of the people this law should apply to, they say this law is wrong. So what do they know? They just sow it and live on it. What do they know is good for them? What do they know is what's good for the seed, what's good for the consumer, what's good for agriculture, what's good for the village? Well, they have no idea, they have no idea. But that's why our HDZ experts know, so don't talk, please don't say this is a bad law, because it's great. Please see this truth that we will really improve Slavonia and agriculture by adopting such a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41528	That was ironic, just to mention, there'd be no confusion. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41529	May I?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41530	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41531	Well, I agree with you, buddy. Yes, we have also heard in the debate of previous colleagues that they are familiar with a large number of applications, complaints and farmers and citizens and are reportedly going to take that into account. But here's the impression we haven't gotten yet. What is more important is what is important to draw attention to is the fact that it is precisely the preservation of the own seed of this coloquial attic that we are constantly talking about and that has actually saved from the permanent disappearance of an indigenous variety such as the Sibenik plum, the trogial flower or the Vukovar watermelon. Of course, we see that this law does not protect the interests of the OPGs and producers, but neither do consumers who actually want to eat homemade, healthy and environmentally-produced vegetables. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41532	Thank you. Mr. Price.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41533	Today, respected colleagues find it difficult to agree on anything in Croatia, so when you mention thousands of agricultural producers warning against this law that they will be harmful to them, they really need to be obeyed. Let us hope that the consequences will not be in the event that the law is passed, that some of them will stop dealing with agriculture. It would also be a shame for the Croatian economy, for Croatian agriculture. Of course, it would also make it difficult for the social situation in our country.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41534	Answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41535	Of course. I hope that doesn't happen. This is an extremely important law for both Slavonia and Croatia, and what is interesting is that we are constantly talking about self-sufficiency with being in December, but in December 2019, a European Green Plan was adopted which was the main goal of making Europe the first climate neutral continent by 2050, and it is actually an extremely important document among other things and for the development of agriculture in which guidelines were given for the next 30 years. This Green Plan policy is actually a biodiversity and strategy from field to table, sustainable agriculture and sustainable improvement of rural areas. But here we are still passing legal acts that are in fact completely contrary to this European policy. And today, instead of discussing the law that incorporated the guidelines of this very European Green Plan, we are passing a law in which we continue to suppress, we are actually destroying biodiversity and small agricultural economies.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41536	Thank you. You don't have any more replicas. Thank you very much. Now it's Mrs. Ruzica Vukovac's turn to speak in front of the House of Homeland Movement Representatives' Club finally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41537	So today there's been some talk about preserved varieties. They are registered only 27 in Croatia, with 9 registered in small quantities in production. Therefore, these are data from the 2019 report on the control of seed crops by HAPH-A. It is not yet possible to register cultivation varieties under special conditions even though they are included in the Regulation concerning the placing on the market of preserved varieties by amendments and additions from 2014. So, even 6 years later, there is still no rule set out to define the criteria of their entry on the sort list. These varieties are otherwise referred to as varieties of best-skilled commercial values developed for special purposes, and many countries like Austria and Slovenia use this category as varieties for small gardens that can be registered very easily and placed on the market without restrictions because they do not endanger large production because they do not have commercial value. The Article of the proposed law of paragraph 4 refers to the introduction of additional varieties, which would only apply at national level but are not defined criteria. The experience of other countries, for example, in Italy, shows that the registration of seeds on such additional lists often brings more problems than solutions because it serves only the manufacturer who registers a particular variety and brings restrictions to others because they have to buy seeds from the registered producer and cannot use it on their own even though it is the same variety. In the case of varieties registered in the national plant gene bank, this is also problematic because the gene bank does not have enough resources to give farmers seed, and even if it did, the manufacturer would get a very small amount that should be reproduced for years to start production. When the free cultivation of traditional local varieties once banned, they will disappear, and the process of creating the rules of additional lists, the reproduction of sufficient amounts of seeds for production from the gene bank takes a minimum year to two, and in practice so far it has taken much more. Registration of preserved sorates as the launch of seed production of such varieties is a long process primarily because the initial seed is extremely small, and when their free cultivation is banned in fields without registration and what little we have will disappear almost instantaneously. Finally, we fear that most farmers will have to throw away seeds that they inherited from their ancestors and buy seeds on the market, so that they will no longer have the motive for further collection and maintenance of seeds, and thus the need for further seed collection. All these provisions of the law will indirectly force small OPGs to buy and give up their seeds, and thus lose biodiversity whose need for preservation is recognised by international contracts and valued by EU strategic documents. The introduction of the obligation to put on the list, so as simple as the procedure is today promised, still means to farmers more administrations than most small farmers will give up because they have neither time nor enough knowledge. The criteria for the entry of sorates without real, commercial values bred for certain purposes as well as criteria for the entry of additional varieties still need to be defined and this is the process that takes place. I'm afraid the seeds of traditional varieties will already be lost until the necessary rules are passed, and then years will go by again as sufficient quantities are re-produced to start production from samples from the collection of plant genes bank for which it doesn't even have the resources to provide enough farmers in sufficient quantity. It is necessary to enable small producers to work on the service of small quantities of seeds used by producers for their own needs as complementary activities not as a condition but as a possibility with a view to reducing the spread of plant diseases and weeds. The obligation to hire a professional with two-year experience in seed processing operations in a permanent working relationship and the mandatory ownership of machinery and equipment excludes such possibility. This is only cost-effective to large plants that will not produce small amounts of seed from the agricultural holding. This law does not contribute to the reduction of disease, as stated as the basic reason for law-making, but rather the opposite. It reduces access to small producers and conditiones the purchase of seeds which actually suits seed companies and imports and not our agricultural producer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41538	Mr. Zeljko Lenart will speak finally on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSS and HSU. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41539	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The seed material has been collected this year. I have to admit, I don't remember the year the seed material was cheap. The largest share of the seed market in the Republic of Croatia has the world's largest companies such as MONSANTO and Bayer and Pionir and other companies not owned by the Republic of Croatia and where the Republic of Croatia cannot possibly affect what they do. Last year, the seed soybean was nearly 9 kuna per kilogram with VAT, and the mercantile soy was sold at 2 kunas and 60. What does that mean? This one of 2 and 60 when they sow into an isolated place, when you clean it up a little bit, put it in a bag and declare after passing through the laboratory examination. It costs nine kunas. It's no different than what our producers take from themselves when they clean it through selectors or trachea as it's called in my area, about a very small difference, and often even that soybeans are more quality. Because farmers can afford to take most of what they took, which is bad enough to throw away while the seed houses are trying to use as much as they can and then they pack up everything in our bag, and then they're packing up all kinds of ground stones and breasts. And the soybean when she takes the soybeans, instead of the soybean takes the pebble, the breast of the earth. Soybeans do not come to that place, and thus the assembly is reduced, and thus the offering falls. Everyone here in the assembly is aware that this law as it is written is not good and position and opposition. It's just that positionarians have to defend that law as they defend it, maybe if we were in the same situation as them, maybe we would defend it that way. However, I know that they know very well in themselves that this is not good and that this is not a law that suits the development of agriculture and family farms, but it is a law that only suits farmers. But if we want to improve agriculture, then we need to build up and change the law for the benefit of agricultural producers because this is the only time for the development of Croatian agriculture that has fallen, and if we want to make more progress on how in a certain part of justice the adoption of this law and the elimination of farm seed, if we want to make more yields, then we just have to squeeze those growers to make more quality seeds. It is those who influence the setting of the law to be on their side that we need to make better offerings that they are responsible for the quality of the seed and that, unless the seeds have been well zeroed and gave a bad breed so that they can be charged and prosecuted in order for the agricultural producers to come to their profits for which they work. And in today's conditions, I don't know who he is, or I don't know who managed to get justice out, I know people who had a problem with the clearance, with bad seeds, especially in the oiled tail, but they never got justice and got some damage, and the production year was over, you threw the fertilizer, you spent the fuel, you spent time. As far as indigenous varieties are concerned, they are best protected by cultivation, not by storage, each seed has its own glare, some year, someone is two, some seed can be eight years old, but if we regularly grow indigenous varieties in this way we keep them best, and they become interesting to consumers and the increasing interest of consumers will shine more and more of such crops and the preservation will be far more high quality.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41540	Thank you. Mr. Niksha Vukas will speak finally in front of the Club of Representatives of the SDP. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41541	Mr. Vice President, the secretary of state with his associates. More or less today everything is said about this law and I have not received any argument from the promoter that this law will bring something good to those we have to worry about, and these are small agricultural producers and the OPG. We have heard that, that this is the first reading, that the law will work out, that there is a second reading, that it will be solved by nomochnik, I have never lived in my life to get rid of a metrics, and the measure today is that this bill is now unnecessary, especially since when we look at how hard our agricultural producers are living and what they all encounter, from it the prices of agricultural products to unfair commercial practices instead of helping them in some way we are now making it impossible for them to in some, in their agricultural holding, their produced seed to be carried to a single laboratory where they will be tested for the health status of seeds to shine but they must now wear it to the finishing, to pay for transport, to have less seeds eventually because of that shert that will remain. And I don't see any reason to bring this now, especially since in agriculture we have a series of things that are more important to us than the distribution of agricultural land, than the sugars, we know how it ended, than the milkers who are in trouble, than the covids that hit our winemakers now, and we've now caught ourselves and what's left of the enthusiasts to produce something on their holdings. Now, even they can't use their seeds anymore, but they can buy it in stores from some multinational companies, but if nothing else can pay for the addition to those producers, and we haven't touched at all how many of these producers there are, how many people who want to shine from their first reproduction how much they're going to pay for the transport, how much they're going to wait for that dowry, will they succeed in an adequate time to sow it all together, I think simply this proposal of the Seed Act is now not only unnecessary but it's also harmful. When we see that in Croatia we are not in any way self-sufficient in anything, that we are in some way forced to import food and instead of now protecting these small agricultural producers that they can have if nothing else costs less to continue production, that they produce some of our indigenous varieties, that ultimately the customers are satisfied, that even through tourism we are promoting our particularity of indigenousity, we are going to kill it now by law because someone in the ministry remembered that this should be changed. I therefore disagree that the entire agronomic profession agreed because, as I saw, there are several professors at the Faculty of Agriculture who gave their own opinion and disagreed with the agronomic profession that probably voted at a meeting that they agree with because I know from my own experience when that so-called. The mainstream agronomic profession agrees with multinational companies means that, ultimately, there is nothing good for the small producer. Therefore, I hope you will accept all our criticisms, and I don't care now that I'm criticizing someone for no reason, but this is not good for agricultural production and I don't think this will be the last nail as said in a small consumer coffin. Tomorrow you will certainly determine how much the household will be able to do for personal use in the pig’s pig’s pig’s pig’s pig’s own production in some way or how much our lamb’s producers will be slaughtered. Therefore, there are a lot of things that you will end up doing just to satisfy those that should not be satisfied, which are large capital, multinational companies and in this particular case a seed house that certainly over 70% of the Croatian state market, and I have not seen that in any proposal of law or amendment, you have looked back at our seed houses to see what they need done, in which way we help them to be relevant factors on the market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41542	Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Marijana Petir will speak finally on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41543	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary with associates, MPs and MPs. In conclusion, I would like to remind you that the intensity of the seed law is to get a more regulated system of production, placing on the market and importing of agricultural reproductive material, to bring together competences, inspection and other issues which are important for the implementation of the single system of agricultural seeding and distribution. I would also like to say that the intensity of this law is not to make it impossible for small producers to sow seeds from their own cultivation from non-registered materials or to limit them in the placing on the market of fruit obtained from these varieties. It is evident that already in the preparatory phase of the law, in the e-consultation process, there were a number of proposals for improvement, they were partly and respected, a great public interest was shown for this law, which is entirely justified, followed by a broad debate at the Committee on Agriculture session where representatives of associations and farmers informed us about their views and what we can welcome is the fact that the Ministry of Agriculture is in open dialogue at the Committee on Agriculture and about the comments made to this law, highlighted the willingness to flexibleise the final proposal of the law and its nomotechnical and clearer arrangement, especially when it comes to two open issues related to certification and the production of seeds. Given that there are different practices in different Member States, there is no uniform model, it may well refer to the interpretation of the European Commission's Directorate-General for Health and Food Safety on these two issues. They point out that seed in their own holding is allowed for farmers to use the product of harvests obtained by sowing on their own holding, of course, for all varieties which are not protected by intellectual property rights. However, as regards protected varieties, seeds preserved on a sorate farm referred to in a regulation on the processing rights of the plant variety of the community can be used. Among plant variety rights holders, compensation must be paid for this, with the exception of small farmers who do not have to pay such a fee. From this point on, we can conclude that we can make it clear to them by our law that small producers who use seed for their own needs and those who place it on the market are not treated in the same way and in this sense can say that it is good that the ministry has accepted such a proposal that we addressed to the Committee on Agriculture and which I have also said on behalf of our club. As regards the obligation and methods of supplementing seeds, the European Commission's Directorate-General for Health and Food Safety, notes that European seed legislation does not lay down rules on the process of supplementing seeds as such or on the registration of seed suppliers, including processors. However, treatment with plant protection means must follow EU legislation on plant protection products. That is why I would say that we must be pragmatic and help our farmers and to avoid the growth of seed prices because such growth would ultimately mean the growth of the final product or food and would also in some way have an impact on the competitiveness of the producer. In this regard, I welcome the preparedness of the Ministry of Agriculture to make that part of the law relating to dorading more flexible, which was also a proposal on our Committee on Agriculture and what is our club's proposal. I would like to remind you that the value of the agricultural activity of the Republic of Croatia in 2020 compared to 2019 has seen a 7% growth but to increase this growth I believe, we all want to seek, not only is investment sufficient to increase productivity, self-sufficiency and competitiveness of the agricultural food sector, but it is also necessary to solve the problem that about 20% of the seeds in the plant structure of the production of extremely low quality. Considering this fact as well as the fact that the seed sector has grown 23% over the past 3 years, we need a quality Seed Act. We can all contribute to what I believe. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41544	Thank you very much. And Mr. Miro Bulj will speak finally on behalf of the Advocacy List Bridge Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41545	Thank you very much. Here, in the end, I would just say that it's sad that there is no minister on such an important topic about seed, that these things as the first person in the Ministry of Agriculture, in that vault, do not give their own, not address the representatives or give them answers. So much for the minister and her work, for the good of agriculture. Like I said, this law is mostly about finishing, Art. 16 and 17 where we describe what our farmers need to do and pay fatly for those who are going to do this, in this case, it would be good to delete these two articles. That's what, all the others who bond this upbuilding, because simply hundreds of thousands of our small farmers are on the verge, now, and especially with this, simple agriculture in the Republic brought to the lowest branches along with all these stories, here's my colleague Petir just said that all this was okay, but it's not okay. The attitude towards the village and the peasant is evident not only from statistical indicators that we will have shortly after the census, and that is all the reason for neglecting the village and the peasant. So we have two-thirds of Croatia empty, and this is one of the most important laws when we talk about seed, it's also national security, it's self-sufficiency. Much of the budget is allocated to subsidies in agriculture, we have never produced less, never imported again, so thousands of questions ask where we are going and who thought of why this article was inserted about seed? For what reason did someone order, who ordered us to import harmful Monsanto products and similar multinational companies that have huge profits and have mastered all the markets, the world market, not just Croatian? I hope that my proposals that have passed the procedure have not accepted them, the ban on GMOs of production and transport, against them are opposed to county, production, transport, planting and trade. We now have 400 products in Croatia on the shelves of GMOs and we have mainly those treated with glyphosate through various treatments such as cidocor and similar to those that create major diseases and damage to human health, and of course the health system and we through import lobbies through you into the ministry are importing and placing on the markets, and our farmers will be calibrated or anything you don't do about seeds so that they can be on the market their products or seeds. So I think this is crazy, this is rude, this is very specific. Here comes the slogan from Split Mayor Vice Mayor's very specific destruction of the village, which cannot be more concrete, you're quite clear here just because you've been a lot, even if you've taken a step, then banning it would be much fairer, means banning the use of seeds, that would be fairer. This is concrete, you have to spend your money you farmers and you from the village to do me your seed, you pay it to make it even your product on the market. I think I think you fought literally with a village, a peasant and a farmer. I am personally on the side of villages, peasants and farmers not for... populist reasons but for the fact that this law will literally destroy what is left in the village of people, and without strong villages that you in the Ministry of Agriculture would tribals propagate, without strong villages there is no strong state. Most of us are here from some villages, some of which are, but we forget the village. I'm sorry that the village is not the head of the institutions, but these lights here have clouded you a little bit, obviously faked well, mostly on radio shows I listen to you regularly, your secretary of state, which is a fog, which is a lie, which is a delusion that is an unrealistic state. I hope that the Committee on Agriculture, too, will be even stronger, stronger and clearer in the HDZ club, which propagates the destruction of Croatian villages through this law that you will be much clearer and stronger. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41546	Thank you very much. I am concluding the debate on Bill No. 99. We'll vote when the conditions are met. I'm announcing a break of epidemiology to the air until 4:00 p.m. It's 3:50 a.m. All right, 1600 hours, we're back to work. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 4:00 A.M.]] Thank you very much. It is next: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the List of Populations, Households and Apartments in the Republic of Croatia in 2021, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 126 The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, based on Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia 172, 204 and 206. The Rules of Procedure of HS. It's an emergency procedure and it means two readings are united. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Mr. Stjepan Curaj is the secretary of state at the Ministry of Finance. Would you like to take a word for it? Yeah. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41571	Thank you, dear Vice President. Honorable MPs, respected MPs. We have before us the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the List of Populations, Households and Apartments for 2021. The law passed last February 28th. Just for a little while, for the sake of public information, I'm going to introduce us to this final little change, but important to whom, as you know, we're changing those deadlines and the timing of the census in view of the epidemiological situation. Otherwise, the census, households and dwellings in the Republic of Croatia is the most complex and extensive statistical survey given the number of units covered and the richest source of data on the population of a country. As you know, data is used to implement various economic, social, demographic, development and other policies and scientific research. Each country implements a list for its own needs in order to comply with international obligations and better comparable data with other countries must be respected and applied international standards which were the basis for the adoption of this law last year as well as for all other laws before that. The organisation of the implementation of the rules is listed by law and clearly defined provisions of the DZS, colleagues are present here and with us, for the sake of your more detailed questions, and the aim is to establish the list of course as you know about the number and spatial layout of the population and its basic demographic, educational, migration, economic and other characteristics of households and apartments. Now, these amendments and additions to the 6 articles mentioned above, above all, change the term from the census, or what was originally planned for April of this year, because of the epidemic, and I don't think we have to mention specifically because of the great importance of the census itself for the whole country and society as a whole. This way, projects are rarely delayed. Since 1857. when the first modern list in the Republic of Croatia was conducted to date was delayed only once and in 1941 due to the outbreak of World War II. As you have all learned over the last three months of this year, there has been a significant deterioration of the epidemiological situation in the entire territory resulting in additional and comprehensive measures by the competent authorities to stop and prevent further spread of the epidemic. Of course, we still have to mention the additional situation in the area of Sisak-Moslavina, Karlovac and Zagreb County has made the earthquakes that have occurred to us. Why the epidemiology? I think I should just point out that as far as the participants in the field census are concerned, a total of 10,000 participants should be included when the list is implemented in its full scope in the second phase of which I will say the same thing in a short time. Therefore, this is not just a specific situation for Croatia, given the virus itself and the epidemiological situation itself, a large number of countries in Europe and the world have just decided to postpone the census within the same reference year from spring to autumn, as is the case here or even for next year. So, for example. 11 countries have decided to postpone the census, and even 3 have decided to transfer Germany, Ireland and Hungary to 2022. What's important is to note about the deadlines that change, otherwise this list is for the first time implemented in two phases, in two ways. The citizens themselves will be able to choose a way. The new proposal for these amendments and the additions to the law that the first phase takes place from 13 September to 26 September, where persons will be able to register on their own using a list of questionnaires in electronic form which will be available through the electronic system of e-citizens. So, at the same time, listing all relevant and requested data as well as the possibility of writing as so far as it has been live and data for other household members. In the second phase of September 27th to October 17th, censusors will list on the ground all listed units that are not listed on their own in this first phase through personal interview with the population and also by electronic device, so when we talk about data processing, we expect that they will then be much faster, more accurate and in the ultimate line more efficient than on the previous, previous lists. So, what is still to be said is that the possibility of prolonging these deadlines is also prescribed. So, by October 17, practically up to another 12 days until October 29th, if that's the case with regard to the state of the field. What is also being introduced by these amendments is that, in the event of the inability to carry out the list further in the established deadlines ahead of you, the special circumstances of the new deadlines would be determined by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by a special decision to be published in the National Journal and these amendments are precisely defined and special circumstances and give that possibility in order not to have the same legal procedure each time. Here, in short, I think it's clear to everyone why, I'm staying here with my colleagues for further questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41572	You have several replicas. The first line was sought by Mr. Pavlichek.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41573	Dear Secretary of State, the Honorable Director of the Statistics Institute, so here I agree that, primarily today, citizens' health needs to be thought about, and these few months of delays should not be disturbed as far as we are concerned. However, I must establish that the census in Croatia shows all but incorrect figures, showing everything but the right situation on the ground. For example, in Vukovar, the census says that we have 28,000 inhabitants, and in reality there are about 22,000 of us. It's about the nationality that I'm not even talking about. I have to determine that once the lists in old Austro-Hungarian were more accurate and precise than today's censuses in 21. A century, so I have two questions for you. First, how many of us are in the Republic of Croatia? And second of all, how much is this census going to cost you? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41574	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41575	Thank you. As regards only briefly, the list will cover all persons who, at the reference point of the list, are located in the area of the Republic of Croatia. However, the total population will also be entered by those who will be resident or intending to stay in the Republic of Croatia for at least a year. Reference moment of the census, this critical moment will be taken as August 31st. So it's going to be seen who was where on August 31st. As far as the census is concerned, we have that data from 2011, as far as the financial part is concerned, it's projected to cost about 160 million kuna if I'm not wrong, is the budget envisioned for this census.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41576	Second replica, Mrs. Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41577	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, I have come across the fact that 8,000 censuses on the ground or a total of 10,000 people will be hired for the census and that a public call will be sent somewhere in April and the main criteria for adult censuses, completed at least in high school, information literacy. Now, given this slow rate of vaccination in the Republic of Croatia, how you mean to protect those who list and those who are listed. Since it's said that the test list was supposed to be the same as if it was, these people were supposed to go to the field, and the vaccination we know how it is going, right? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41578	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41579	Here's a thank you. So, the test list was done, so it's safe to adhere to all the epidemiological measures. It is also indicated in instructions that the list can also be completed in rooms where a list of households, apartments and beyond is held, so in the courtyards in front of the open area. So, I think it will certainly insist and, of course, it will be absolutely mandated that they have to follow all the measures, of course, which is why we are delaying this precisely so that the epidemiological situation is as good and as expected that this is exactly what can be listed in the best possible and safest way. It will, of course, be as you yourself said, a tender will be opened as regards either the call for registration for all censusors under these conditions that you said knowledge of computer work and other things, where you will watch the priority of course how we do this electronically that it will certainly be one of the main conditions for, for the very selection of people who will implement it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41580	Thank you. Mr. Rasputic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41581	Dear Mr. Curray, at the time of the adoption of this law, which is now understandable, it is necessary to complete it because of these corona circumstances, Professor. Stjepan Stertz publicly stated that the draft law did not consult the profession at all. Similar statements were made by academic Angelko Akrap. So, when I say waist, I mean people who are academically involved in this and who teach in Croatian universities things that the list directly refers to. Is that true even if it is why the waist isn't consulted?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41582	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41583	Thank you. I don't have the information you brought out. What I can say is that, when this law was passed, Commission regulations were also guided, so the 2017 implementing regulations, so as regards both the reference years and the particulars, exactly as I said they would be harmonised at EU level and the world as well, that census standards are equal, that relevant data are comparable. So, in the conduct of this law, we have just been led by the team and we as a member of the EU are obliged to adhere to equal methods and, of course, to process statistics so that it was the main thing that I know about lawmaking, the way of implementation to comply with what is at European Commission and EU level.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41584	Mr. Price.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41585	The respected one of the most important things about the census is, of course, the collection of data, but it's also important to keep it up to date. It is important that these data be made available to the Croatian public as soon as possible. Already 10 years ago when the last census was some data came within two months, but unfortunately some data came up with a delay up to a year and a half or more. So I am now interested in whether the government in Croatia has taken steps to help the State Statistics Institute to process this data as quickly as possible so that these data can be made available to the Croatian public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41586	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41587	I appreciate that. The deadlines are 60 days for indicative results, which are the most basic and 27 weeks after the end of the reference year, or the year of censusing for others. As for 2011, I will only, of course as regards deadlines, expect it to be much faster this time, given that the electronic census is the first part of the listing system of e-citizens where, according to current data, about a million and 200,000 citizens have reported to that system at some point, it does not mean that everyone is using it, but the censusors themselves who are going to go to the field will also use this interface. So we expect that there are no data transcripts and all the things that slowed it down. Last year, or last year's census, the first results were already June 29, 2011 and then until the last 8th of November 2013, we expect it to be much faster this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41588	Mr. Marin Lerotić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41589	Dear Secretary of State, I'm wondering if our fellow citizens will be able to plead regionally on this year's census. Namely, as you know in 2011, on the list of population over 20,000 of our fellow citizens, which in the area of the Istrian County has declared as Istrians, I really do not see any objective reason why someone could not express himself by their sense or regional identity, i.e. belonging. Because as one famous song by an Istrian singer says, "Bongiorno good day I am writing Istrian ma calmly you must sleep, yet I am not less Croats."
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41590	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41591	Thank you. According to my knowledge, there is no possibility of a regional declaration. Although questions about nationality and nationality are open - minded, no answers are offered, but people themselves express themselves in accordance with their custom or custom. So so far, according to the physical causes that I've studied anywhere, it hasn't been so recorded that there's a possibility of a regional declaration under egidism that I don't know whether ethnicity, nationality, I don't know how, which would replace it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41592	Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41593	Mr. Curaj, your first avoidance of the answer that the profession is not consulted for the bill will enter the annals of avoidance of answers. He needs to be cut up and ready. So the profession is not consulted on writing this bill. But what you can also hear is that you, for example, in the list of variables, take the parameters to find out if someone has a cow somewhere, but doesn't have an Internet connection. So what I'm interested in is how you can plan any development of any end with this census if you don't even know the basic infrastructure base. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41594	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41595	So, as far as the first part of your replica is concerned, I can neither give the courts nor answer anything I'm not familiar with. So if your opinion is that the profession is not consulted I can accept it with the reserve, but I can't judge it because I'm not familiar with it. What I do know is that the profession regarding Croatian professions and Croatian minds, i.e. people in charge of the State Statistics Office, have been consulted in a way in the making of this law along with the competent authorities of the European Commission. As far as part two of your question is concerned, I have to admit I didn't understand it. So you're going in if I realized if the question is whether to have an Internet connection in households? Is that a setup or not? I have to admit, I'm going to consult if that possibility and that question were left to be asked at all. I don't know if it even exists.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41596	Mrs. Ivana Posavec The guilty.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41597	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State. In a press release issued by the State Statistics Institute on 1 March this year, it is said that it is enough that one member of the household in the e-Citizen system and that he owns credentials, and that one member of the household lists the apartment, household and all members of the household. This is about the test list. I wonder if this principle will also apply to the real population list. I want to know exactly how many citizens we have on today in the system of e-Citizens, with which level of credentials and what level of credentials will it take to list the population. Furthermore, whether there will be a change of interfaces on the website of e-Citizens who has not changed since 2011 and is certainly not friendly for users which I think might make it difficult for users to use in this list only. And finally whether the use of the e-Citizen system in the census leads to the fact that we can expect a near voting opportunity in the elections through the e-Citizen system.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41598	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41599	Thank you. I'll try to answer every question. So, what I said earlier, according to the records from the Central Digitalisation Office, the digital society, so 1.2 or million, and 200 000 people, at one point through their OIB, applied to the system of e-Citizens. As far as the interface is concerned, I don't have any information, so maybe it's a question for the Central State Office right now. Of course, as so far, as in previous censuses, other household members could always be listed. So one person could have written down the others. It will also be possible now through this very system. As far as the credentials are concerned, as far as I've been able to find them in the material itself, so it's her mark three, so she'll be able to access as normally as she is now entering the NIAS system into the very system of e-citizens. And as far as the website looks, it's a question for the Central State Office.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41600	Thank you. Mr. Veljko Kajtazi.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41601	Thank you. At the very beginning, I would just like to commend the Director of the State Statistics Office, as well as her associates. We had great cooperation. I'd also like to ask a question. I'm sure you're aware that we have 60 Roma settlements in the Republic of Croatia? You also know that these settlements are very far from the city center. You know it's a bad connection. You also know that infrastructure is very weak within the Roma settlement. You also know that in these Roma settlements there are very many dogs that are not chipped, which have not been vaccinated, etc. So there may be discomfort. We can also say on the list that there will be a very large barrier in language. My question to you. Did you plan along with a list of maybe a local escort who might be able to help the censusor himself?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41602	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41603	I'd like to thank the esteemed representative. These remarks of yours will probably come to our attention. As regards the language of the questionnaire itself, he is and will be published on the pages just so that we can get close and have absolute full information and all members of the national minorities as to the method of collection itself, even though we speak first of all for those who will apply on their own. Of course, for those censusors, it'll be more oral questions. So they won't have to read in the end line the pattern itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41604	Mrs. Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41605	Thank you. Dearestly, according to data for the implementation of the census this year, the state has secured 177 million kuna. Compared to the 2011 census, when according to the final report, the census cost 117 million kuna, therefore 60 million kuna is more planned. And since you said you were planning to use so we see in two stages a list will be made, how are we planning millions of kunas, and we're going to use a system of e-citizens that should also reduce the costs of that list? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41606	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41607	I thank you for your question. I have to admit that I didn't enter the structure since this law was passed a year ago I didn't go so backwards, so I'm going to give you an answer through the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41608	Mr. Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41609	Thank you very much, Vice President. First of all, I support the amendments and additions to the Census Act in view of the health situation and, of course, that the health of all our fellow citizens is in the first place. What matters to me personally as well as to the citizen of the City of Vukovar that this list is made not only transparent but in a responsible, precise and accurate way. I believe that with all insurance methods, we will succeed, therefore, through the OIB, and through inter-resorship cooperation and with the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the State Geodetic Administration, through material and criminal responsibility and censusors and those who make statements, but also through all other insurance systems. Here is also the subject of whether the profession is consulted or not, information from the Department of Statistics to a total of 49 addresses of the university and the institution has been sent. Among them, the above professors and objections were not subject to the law even though it was twice in the procedure. So, the waist's been consulted.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41610	Thank you very much. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41611	Here's a thank you for that information. I think you helped me with the answer, too. It's absolutely true what you said about why this and why we're delaying, and hopefully we'll be able to implement this within those deadlines that are being proposed here.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41612	Mrs. Mariana Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41613	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Secretary of State, I'm wondering if there's been any difference in population census methodology compared to 2011 except that we're now going to have the possibility of including through the E-Citizen system? That's what I'm asking you because in public, there are often some doubts and interpretations about intransparency, which could appear on this list, and according to my knowledge, it will take place in the same way as it was in 2011. Since there is now a delay which is understandable because of the epidemiological reasons, but also because of the terrible earthquake that hit Sisak-Moslavina County and partly temporarily displaced our residents, I wonder if you have any feedback whether it will in any way affect the complete picture or whether we will be able to return the list to their homes by the time the list is delayed.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41614	Thank you. Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41615	Thank you. So absolutely this law has been done in accordance with international prescribed standards which have been prepared jointly by both the UN and EUROSTAT so that absolutely all issues, all processing and methodology of the way and asking questions of open, semi-opened harmonized precisely to be unified. So there aren't any jumps. As far as this second part of the question is concerned, this is what we have cited as one of the reasons why the delay is right and the earthquake in those counties in which you will surely need... And that's why he left that extra period from October 29th to October to take that into account that he has some of the people who temporarily had to move out of their homes and we can't find them in their houses that they have color-red stickers. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41616	Mrs. Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41617	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, so here in 2021 will be recorded hopefully also after that step that the State Bureau of Statistics and the Republic of Croatia will conduct a census through both e-Citizens and direct lists. What is very important to mention is that despite all the elemental disasters and earthquakes and the epidemiological situation, the State Statistics Institute has been very prepared for these tasks and has not hesitated to do so, and therefore we should be very aware of the specific conditions. In addition, it should be stated that the accession measures were also implemented and that we had to meet in the course mechanism certain measures that we are obliged to prepare for Eurostat.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41618	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41619	Here's a thank you for your replica. Absolutely everything you said is true, so this is a huge job that is as important as I initially said for every country and so on for Croatia, especially because we know what a number of other laws and laws and decisions and rights used, which citizens use, and thus JLS depend on the population list itself. Of course, all the measures taken by the competent authorities, including the State Statistics Office itself, are important for this job to be done as accurately and efficiently as possible and to obtain as relevant and more accurate data as possible. So everything you've listed and these parts that you're accessing to the list itself and the census itself are extremely important and the preparation itself is the biggest part of this job that's waiting for us.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41620	Mr. Bacich.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41621	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, in a year and a half, in a year, a little bit more, we are secondly discussing amending the Census Act. A year ago, we had a debate, because it was actually a fundamental change that allowed the census. So the numerous replicas I'm hearing right now we've already given them answers a year ago. One of these answers is that all professional and relevant institutions and persons participated in the process of amending the law at the time, and between them and Prof. Stertz and Professor An acrapp that, on the proposed list as a basic act on which the lists are carried out, which is a form for the implementation of the list, did not have any comments. So the profession is consulted and that's very good and I commend it. What I wanted to ask you is that since a list of agriculture is being implemented behind us when, do you have any idea when the state's office is going to publish these results at least preliminaryly, I think it's very important.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41622	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41623	Here's an answer to your question, by the end of the year we should come up with data regarding... the agricultural status list. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And thank you again for reminding us of the only passing of this law last year that was adopted on February 28th.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41624	- Mrs. Crescent. Jurician-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41625	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, I think we'll all agree on these amendments to the law. However, the founding law on the household and housing census for 2021 has received numerous criticisms on the census and censusing of members of national minorities. I think it is good to point out once again here today that essentially the law applies according to the recommendations of the Conference of European Statistics for Census Lists and precisely for the definition of the total population will apply the concept of the usual place of residence, which is in accordance with the 2008 Regulation. and most importantly, this has already been applied in the 2001 and 2011 lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41626	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41627	Here's a thank you, so let me just fill it in. In fact, as far as this part of the law relating to members of national minorities is concerned, so what I said about all members of the national minority will be possible insight into the visual example of the questionnaire in the language and letter of the national minority, as I said on the pages themselves. As for that and the new one... This law is that we will have a minority censusor in the environments where minorities live, of course, if they meet the prescribed criteria for selecting censusors, which I said is one of the basics of course with secondary education and internet literacy. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41628	And at the end of the day, Mr. Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41629	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, what is the political consequence of the census is certain political rights of members of national communities, so national minorities, but also of Croatia, members of the Croatian people in JLS where they represent a numbering minority compared to other nationalities. Therefore, the political rights of representation in JLS representative bodies to deputy chiefs, mayors or mayors, the right to equal use of language and letters and in a certain small number of environments, but in fact, the results of the census will be determined by the national structure by maybe up to 2037. What are the mechanisms of control to avoid the debate we had from, both in the assembly and after the census on the accuracy of the national composition of the population in these JLS, including the possibility of a re-listing if necessary?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41630	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41631	Thank you. Yes, as I was saying in the introduction, the data on, in particular, faith and nationality are among the more wanted by the users and is certainly one of the most important things that are collected in this list itself and what is new is that these data themselves are so designed that every citizen can freely plead on these two issues, therefore it is open. Of course, after the first part of the census, there will be administrative checks, coordination with the data register, therefore both from the MUP and other data available to establish accuracy. This applies later on to this second part of the census itself, and as regards certain data when people list others, they give both the OIBs and all other data will naturally be carried out and a certain control and that is why it was this and the trial itself part of the story that we did during this month and to see there and how to control these same... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41632	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. Don't forget that I'm having the same problem and it's serious during the census, so nothing new on the horizon. Would anyone like to take their words on behalf of the board? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate and I'm asking my colleague Sanader to give his words.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41633	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of MOST, the distinguished representative Rasdić and Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41634	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Proposer, fellow Members and fellow MPs, today we are talking about seeing the most important things, there is no more important thing than how many we are and how we are. All other stories about development, employment, standards, security, investment in education, science, culture all falls to the other end of demographics. I repeat how many of us there are, whether there are us or who we are. It's a question of all the questions. The census is very important because it will lead to all planning and economic and demographic and transport and urban and energy and education and social and health care not to go any further. The list is the basis of development. And we do it without consulting the profession. Our demographic professor. In an interview with Free Dalmatia on 9.3.2021, there is now no colleague of Bačić who claims to have been consulted by Sterc, which stated that the profession was not consulted and that there is no one on the council to conduct a list of them who are therefore academically engaged in so-called demography and related things at colleges. Well then, either falsely speaking to Mr. Stertz or Mr. Bačić, I repeat the Stercom interview Free Dalmatia 9.3. It is the hill of the valley, last year the most energy was spent in the debate over how many real ones will be listed, and how many fictitious Serbs or Croats and whether the mother tongue can be one or more. And what is the condition, what does the waist really say? The population is shrinking and the population is getting old. Croatia has been among the 10 oldest nations in the world for years, Professor. Angelo Akrap exactly says we're 7 by the age of the world. There is an increasing difference in the number of births and deaths, which should be added to EU emigration. Since 1991, we've lost 250,000 students, while the number of pensioners has increased by half a million. During this period, the ratio of workers and pensioners fell from 2.56 to 1.25 employed by a pensioner. Number of persons in employment in Croatia since '91. It fell from $3 million to 2.5 million. Prof. Akrap points out that 141,000 people died from the 2011 census more than they were born, and if we watch since '91. 272,000 more dead than born. We can add to that by international statistics that the village is more than 340,000 people. What does that mean? That we'll probably have 3.8 million on the list. And it should be said that many fictitious ones are listed in the 2011 list. The question is how many people who have gone to Ireland and Germany and have not checked out will be listed by members of the household or even they can online from Ireland or IT will not be checked. A man from Germany or Ireland can register with an e-citizen and list himself and children who are not in Germany and there go to school. So the problem of fictitious residents. What's reality? So reality, for example, is the number of children attending schools or the Penava wolfing example, talking about how many people pay for water in Vukovar. No one pays for the water fakely. The one who pays, the one who gets paid, the water is really there. We have vacated parts of Croatia, which left the majority of the elderly population and which will also soon remain empty. Now, about the list. In making the Census Act, we heard there was no profession. The first problem is indirect censusing. A censuser comes in, one person gives information to both himself and the others. Now it's possible online, I repeat, you won't check the IT address from where the net was logged in and wrote down yourself and family. Problem number two is this showing intent to stay. A very problematic category, someone who is temporarily there, and says that in the next year he will be present at the site or not even there but rather a member of the household that he intends to reside there for the next year he is being held as a resident. The profession also warned that the test list should have taken place much earlier, two years ago according to the rules of the profession. The additional problem is that there are no good questions we have heard about whether you have a cow, and do not wonder if you have access to the Internet. How, then, to plan online and school and business and other developmental things if we don't have that information. The biggest problem is the absence of a register. All developed countries have a population register that is cheaper, more accurate, more up-to-date. The register is also an EU recommendation. For example, the registry has Slovenia and many other EU countries. Mislav Rubic of the Central State Demography Office recently publicly said the government is working on it. So when do we get the population register law? So we need a list here, and then we're going to have a register law so we have a constant, realistic monitoring of the situation. How much is coming in, how much is coming out, not that we always have old data, that we know what was 2, 5 or 9 years ago depending on when was the last list.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41635	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, however the radio census is done, and with the digital self-recording that is now here I hope and introduce during this census with standard controls, however he does he must be precise, he must be detailed, reliable, he must show us the correct picture of Croatia. Why? Because your census is the foundation. The foundation for you to create a long-term strategy for the development of the Republic of Croatia. With an adequate list you can know how Col. Rasdić said how to define both demographics, economics, education, social and all other plans, plans for the development of the Republic of Croatia. Not for stagnation. For the development of the Republic of Croatia and this even development of the Republic of Croatia. This list means you have to be precise, and are there all parameters in it for it to be precise? And if it's true that that list requires as much information as you have cows, and don't you have an Internet access point as you expect that you can make any valid basis for the development of an end? So what family will come to you today where there is no Internet access? Which entrepreneur will open your job or jobs if you do not have access to the Internet? What are you talking about? The precise signature is the assumption of everything that we need to be able to see what and how and how someone should finally make the decisions that should have been made long ago, and what we can see again that this Bill on Census Listing has not been a profession. Is the policy goal of the Republic of Croatia evenly developed by the Republic of Croatia? Then this list will reveal or should reveal what the situation is in every area, what the assumptions for the development of the region, or what it is necessary to invest, how much to make these regions live, in order for our demographic picture to be improved. And what you have at this point, you have the fact that villages in the counties disappear in all counties or that they remain desolate, abandoned, and that the reason for this is that the policy and the policy relationship and the government towards these areas that build their tactics, their policies and guidelines on unrealistic grounds. I'll take just one example. In the Dubrovnik coast, the village of Mikes is almost 25 km away from Dubrovnik, so it's almost gone. Since 91st, in the rural areas of Dubrovnik-Neretva County, you don't have an almost new open entrepreneur. And you know why? The answer is simple. You don't even have WiFi signals, you don't have adequate or fixed-line networks. You don't have normal communication. You don't have hydrant nets. Yeah, emigration and exodus happen in other parts. It's not just Slavonia, but it's a question of why. And what are you going to do with a census that doesn't have all the proper parameters to do? So if you don't have the parameters to show you that this is all missing in some neighborhood, so how are you going to plan to develop this end? Are you going to keep telling stories about how you're going to crack those places? Who are you going to fuck with? You now need to plan what you need for the census, what basis you need for proper planning and for long-term development, and for this unfortunately you do not take data. We don't need a list of the population to collect dust on the shelves, for some kind of decoration on the wall. He's supposed to be alive. We're not getting an adequate background with this list. We will not have normal development of the Republic of Croatia, long-term development. Please change that.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41636	The next debate is the National Minority Representatives' Club. Honorable representative Veljko Kajtazi.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41637	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, the Honorable Director of the Department of Statistics with a colleague. First of all, I commend this bill that the government has sent before us. Moving the census is a smart and reasonable decision not only because of the pandemic and earthquake that hit several counties, but also because of the fact that the term overlapped with the local election campaign. Since in many cases administrative affairs for both elections and censuses are dealt with by the same people or officers of units of local and regional self-government, it is much better to move the list to autumn. When we mention the topic of local elections, I must say that on one hand I am sorry that they will be held looking at figures from the old census, because looking at the Roma population, these figures are much lower than the real situation. For example, according to the 2011 census of Roma in all Croatia, there are as many numbers as there are now in Međimurje County alone. It is clear that these old figures from the Roma population census when we look at political frameworks in local self-government units will be placed in an unequal position in relation to the real situation. But that's how it is. The Roma community will, of course, be patient for four more years to exercise its rights to the number of representatives in the representative and executive bodies of local self-government as it belongs to it in the real state of things. As for 70 years, individual Roma settlements have been waiting for the basic conditions that everyone else has for electricity, water, sewerage is not a problem for us to be patient even when it comes to political or civil rights. In those four years, however, the Roma community will have the first parishioner, of course in Međimurje County and deputies in a number of municipalities and cities. This is inevitable as much as the current county authorities are trying to make life difficult for Roma in Međimurje and it will happen despite the number of racist protests we have organised. Croatia is a country and Roma as well as Croats, Serbs, Italians, Bosniaks and all other peoples, and that is something that all political options must respect. I sincerely hope that in the future, in the future, less relevant political options and serious politicians will collect points at an anti-Roma campaign or at a campaign of any kind that discriminates against certain social groups. It probably doesn’t have to remind us of a situation where even that firstborn child was lied in the new year just because the first child was really born Roma. Indeed, for every condemnation, it is as if a child is less valuable because it is Roma. While closer to the local elections, public talks against Roma in Međimurje have remained quite silent. This is not because individuals have changed their views, but because they know the figures, and figures say that in certain units of local self-government Roma make up a significant share of the electoral body and that in certain cases it will be Roma voices that will decide who will be the mayor or mayor. This time, however, the Roma community will not only remain on the list to support certain lists or to keep some Roma on the list in order to meet the conditions laid down by the Constitutional Law on the number of representatives of national minorities in the majority. No, in these elections, the Roma community itself will form candidate lists and compete in the election race to prove that they can organise themselves and get representatives in most municipalities and cities. Political participation is also one way of better integration in society, as independent lists appear everywhere in Croatia, which aim to improve the conditions in their areas that often include only individual settlements or neighborhoods so that this time Roma will also have them. Because if the leaders of individual units of local self-government refuse and return money to the state budget just because it was necessary to regulate Roma settlements, then the population of these same settlements will only try to fight through the participation of their representatives in the councils of municipalities and cities in a way that includes projects for Roma settlements in local budgets. Speaking of Roma settlements, I'd like to return to the subject of the census. As we know in a lot, 60 Roma settlements are ruled by poor conditions and are places where there are many problems. And I therefore think that it is necessary for Roma followers to go along with the censusors in the village, i.e. persons who will help censusors in their work because the purpose of the censusors is to obtain as much data as possible on the actual number of persons. There are also many dogs in Roma settlements that are unsettled and wandering. This is also done through the project chipping and vaccination of dogs carried out by the Ministry of Agriculture and the State Inspectorate. But there's still a lot of dogs that pose danger. Considering also the language barrier where part of Roma does not speak Croatian and where part of Roma is untrustworthy, I am here to help a person who speaks their language overcome these obstacles more easily. According to the 2001 census, Roma were less than 1,000 in Croatia, and already there were over 16000 in 2011. I am convinced that after this list we will have between 30,000 and 35,000 people who will plead as Roma if not more. Such a leap of numbers is not only because of high birth rate or because many Roma have moved since then, but because now people are less ashamed to say they are Roma and it is positive and it is good because it is an indication that the social climate is still changing. In our country, as has been known for many years, the population has fallen. There were about 4 million and 700 thousand in Croatia when there were now around 4 million. These figures prove what we feel ourselves, which is that Croatia has a growing population in certain areas and that the population is ageing. Despite the tax demographic situation, however, we have political options that point out that Roma is being born too much and that soon in some parts of Croatia, Croats will be minority. To comfort all such, there is no fear that the Roma will prevail over the Croats or anything like that. The only thing the Roma want is to be treated like the rest of them, no less, no more than that. So in a country where we have a decline in the number of children and residents, I don't see anyone endangering someone by having more children than average, unless you view them as individual prominent demographics to call on demographic restoration but only on condition that Croatian children are born. In conclusion, I want to say that together with the Roma Alliance in the Republic of KaliSara, I will lead a strong campaign to make as many Roma known as they really are. I will therefore take this opportunity to call upon the Roma to be who they are, be a Roma, be a man. ... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41638	The next debate is the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns, distinguished representative Marijan Pavliček.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41639	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable State Secretary, the Honorable Director of the Statistics Institute. Here we live in the 21st century when almost every family in the Republic of Croatia has one or two cars. We live in a time when almost every adult resident, but a large part of the minors have one or two mobile devices. We live in a time when almost every household in the Republic of Croatia has access to the Internet. We live in a time when in just a few seconds we can get the relevant data and documents we need through the e-Citizen system. However, despite the fact that we are in a technologically developed time, despite being here for 8 years, full-fledged EU members, we are not able to solve a single banal thing. And that's the answer to the question of how many of us are there. And I didn't get an answer today from you esteemed secretary of state as many of us in Zagreb, Rijeka, Split, Vukovar, Dubrovnik, Ilock, Bapska, Lovas, how many of us are in the Republic of Croatia? A brief and clear question, and there's no answer. Why isn't there? Because someone doesn't answer to show the right state in the country. Who's not answering? So those who are responsible for managing the Croatian state because if the right situation was shown, someone would have to take responsibility for losing the population of over 10% in the last few years. This is how this census will become just another figure, one political game, one statistical game, not a real state of play on the ground. Unfortunately, the censuses of the old Austro-Hungarian population were more accurate, more precise than those of the population in Croatia in 2021. Here are some examples, in 2011 according to the list of the population of Vukovar-Srijem County had some 180,000 inhabitants. Today there are about 150,000 estimates. 180,000 wasn't even 10 years ago. Ten thousand were fictitiously reported in this category. The town of Vukovar, according to that list of 27,683 inhabitants, has about 22,200 people in the city of Vukovar. Even 10 years ago, the city of Vukovar did not have those famous nearly 28,000 inhabitants. But apparently this kind of data is responding to someone because based on false data, some can also exercise certain rights. This list became a political category because last year it was just the representatives of minority clubs who requested that they enter the law according to the number of residents of a particular city and municipalities and censuses in that proportion, which means they do not believe in the system, which means that there is an option of direct interference in the population list itself. Although the amendments were rejected, it was said that they would be present in this ratio during the census itself. On the other hand, the censusors themselves are not qualified enough, nor have certain powers, they must write down everything they are told during a tour of a particular household, either 5, 10 or 15 or sometimes 20 fictitiously registered persons. So you in the town of Vukovar according to the last census and list of voters have certain addresses that do not exist in the city of Vukovar, home numbers that simply do not exist in these streets, and you have registered voters there, and also residents. These are unfortunately indicators of the census. And instead of introducing order so that we can create a real strategy for economic development, tourism development, agricultural development, security development based on the number of inhabitants that we have based on the profession we have in the Republic of Croatia we are creating again one false list and we are raising one, one false hope and we are running away from further problems. Here, I hope, although I doubt this list will still be much, much more quality than the one 10 years ago and will not turn into one political category. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41640	On behalf of the motionary, the Honorable Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41641	Thank you, dear Vice President. Here's why it wouldn't have been that time had gone, and if the answers hadn't been given to a few things you'd now mentioned to a respected MP, maybe we didn't get along well, I thought you were asking about the last data in 2011 when 4 million 437 thousand 460 people were listed, but now I realized that you refer to an assessment that was done by 30.6 last year, and the estimate of the population's movement is 4 million 47 thousand people. As far as other issues are concerned, the State Statistics Institute itself is 163 million 58 thousand, and 14 million for the State Geodetic Authority, so that's 177 million. Why so much more? I did not want to speak in mind, so first of all, the largest amount goes to itself, the censusors themselves and their fees, however, what is new and what is the reason for this increase is the purchase of at least 8,000 electronic devices, so the laptops that will be served are themselves censusors and, of course, the editing of the space and investments themselves in the information and the possibility of processing these data where we all come to an amount of over 50 million kuna of additional cost. What they can only point out is that all these laptops that are purchased for this occasion or for the needs of the census will be forwarded after the list of the Ministry of Science and Education, therefore to be used in the education system. As far as questions about the Internet are concerned, if I understand correctly that a respected representative of Petrov is asking certain questions from the agricultural sphere, and among other things, he has listed certain questions about whether or not he has a specific livestock in the property, it is a purely methodological question or how to distinguish the rural population from the non-rual population, and the Internet question is methodologically no purpose or statistical since it is something that changes from month to month, year to year so that something that changes from month to month, year to year, from year to year, would not mean anything to us for two years now as much as the internet user was 2021, as nothing would mean to us, or data from 2011, and these data are being collected secondly over the year and every year being renewed. I think that's actually what I said, the part that I stayed in debt from the opening argument. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41642	You have several replicas. The first is Honorable Representative Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41643	The esteemed secretary in this section regarding the survey in the questionnaire itself regarding the census that there should be no data on the Internet, about joining the 5G network there would disagree with you. In fact, it's about having a big debate in public about whether to introduce a 5G network, whether it's healthy, whether it's not healthy. Here you could collect information about whether someone is interested in the 5G network, whether they want to connect to the 5G network, whether they have optics on their home, whether they are using and how much they use devices in the Internet connection house, which they do. You can collect the very things that are useful to you, which are useful to you for the future of our children, for the future for new generations who want to do things online that want to do e-work, and here we will not get that information. And after that, once these data are collected, it is only necessary to monitor whether a certain number of households have been combined on the optics or not and we will know the exact data. We don't know anything now.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41644	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41645	Thank you. So maybe we didn't get along. It's not an answer that they don't need data or matter. The answer is that these data are collected in a different way. So we have to be efficient here and if we have certain methodologies of data collection that are past the list itself, then we use them and we don't double with the list. Therefore, these data on Internet access are updated at monthly level and are available. So it is not necessary for the census to re-establish them, given that this is the user’s data of the plugins being changed from day to day so that we agree that they are important. But we have that data, that's what's most important, and we don't have to waste resources and resources to get it on one cross-section on day 31. Eight. In 2021, because in three years, they won't mean anything to us if we sign them today.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41646	The next replica is the esteemed representative Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41647	Thank you very much. The honourable secretary of state related to this trial list of the population for which you have checked your associate to see if it has been completed, how many people are actually included in that list? How many recorders were included? And how did you choose them, given that the public call only goes in April? And one thing is unclear to me in the existing law. Given that 177 million are now provided for, it says that units of local and regional self-government are required at the request of the Institute and without compensation to secure the space of use of equipment and other resources necessary for the implementation of the list's activities. What are these situations when they have to do without compensation, and the funds are like insured? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41648	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41649	Thank you. On the first part of your question, the 5,000 inhabitants were covered by a trial list. As far as the space itself is concerned here that we have provided the funds, this refers to the premises of the State Statistics Service that will be needed to also edit and informative equipment so that all this information can be processed together with the information service in one central place when we talk about servers, when we talk about the protection of these data. As far as the units of local self-government are concerned, let's say the outposts of a census or county administration where each county will have its own existing premises or organised list itself, as is the case in the elections themselves when using exactly the same municipal spaces, the city and county to conduct the elections themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41650	The next replica is the esteemed representative of the Domagoj Story.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41651	Dear Secretary of State today, some of the MPs have expressed their concerns that citizens who do not even live in Croatia will register on their own through the e-Citizen system and that they will register from the very official censusors that they will report people as if they live in Croatia who do not really live. How would we have the most accurate and best data possible if the government had prepared some methods that would reach that point in order to really have the most accurate data possible?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41652	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41653	Thank you. So I'll just repeat that the list will cover all persons who are at the reference point of the list, so 31. Eight. They'll be in the Republic of Croatia for 24 hours. So the total number of people enters and those who will stay or intend to stay in the Republic of Croatia for at least a year. This is the standard of international and in line with EUROSTAT. As far as the checks themselves are concerned, of course, everyone will be checked even though we must note that as so far, the standard is global and European to base these data on statistics based on statements. But the data itself is always absolutely going to be checked methodically. But first and administratively as regards all data available from other sources, therefore as regards the address reported, only the OIBs and other data available through other systems.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41654	And the last replica of the esteemed representative of Nikola Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41655	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, as we have heard so far, the census is extremely important from a series of aspects, and we in the City of Vukovar even more since in 2011, so we are burned on certain things and therefore we express our mutual concern and colleague here is Pavlikek, who said personally that he must be transparent, accurate and reliable. I believe that, for this reason, the State Geodetic Authority is involved, therefore, to deliver all home addresses which will already be entered automatically in the questionnaire. So the enrollers won't be able to change their addresses. There will also be controllers and instructors who will examine it all. And what is important is to say, so are the censusors themselves, but also those who will make statements do so under material and criminal responsibility, and the censusors will first of all be all those who are trained, and between us and the Croatian defenders.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41656	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41657	Thank you. It would only complement what has been raised in the debate as regards the earthquake itself in the affected areas. The methodological questionnaire will adapt and have that possibility temporarily let's say evicted, which is precisely because of what you said already prescribed addresses that have been found and found in another space precisely for this reason. So we believe that it will be maximumly adjusted to get as precise and accurate as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41658	Next is the debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, distinguished representative Branko Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41659	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, Director with Associates, colleagues and colleagues. So this proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the List of Populations, Households and Apartments in the Republic of Croatia for 2021. The HDZ club will support and I am pleased to hear that there are no problems and that this will most likely be adopted unanimously in the HS on Friday. We know because of the significantly worsening epidemiological situation in the last three months, and the additional difficult situation especially in the Sisak-Moslavina area, as well as in Karlovac and Zagreb County because of the earthquakes that took place on 28 and 29 December, and further the epidemiological situation in this year, which remains unfavourable, it is necessary to postpone the census of the population, households and apartments. The census is conducted in full population coverage and it is necessary to take care of the full cooperation and mutual trust of the population and the participants of the census, which is difficult in this situation. Since the strict recommendation of the Civil Protection Staff was to postpone the test list because of the epidemiological situation, it was necessary to postpone the list itself. Due to the difficult situation, a list has been postponed in many countries of Europe and the world, and since spring as well as in autumn, Portugal, Greece, Bulgaria, Romania, Cyprus, Northern Macedonia, Serbia, Russia, etc., and some even delayed it by 2022. like Scotland, Germany, Ireland, Ukraine. Namely, the test list was planned by the DZS from 10 to 22 December last year in 4 counties and the City of Zagreb about 5,000 households and about 12,000 were to be covered by this test list. We need it in order to test a new way of data collection, which is only by listing the fill-in of electronic questionnaires by reporting in the e-Citizens system and using laptops, and we have seen the criticism of how much funds are spent that we have received the Secretary of State's reply that many of these computers and the funds that will be allocated to these computers will then be allocated to schools. The delay in the test list also resulted in a delay in this list because it takes a time period between the two lists to be at least a few months due to the need to test the methodology itself. For the first time in the upcoming census, citizens will be questioned by the civilian victims of the Homeland War and religious communities, and these new issues should be specifically tested to verify their clarity, understanding and analyse the quality of the data collected. It is also very important to return messages from citizens that we will receive during the test list, which will be collected on a line of patterns from citizens who will only be listed and by oral message that will be sent to the censuses. Citizens themselves can best point to shortcomings in the preparation of the list, especially those relating to the application and methodology. This list for the first time in our country's history will be done in a digital way, which is also the strategic goal of official statistics, modernisation, digitisation and the improvement of data collection. In line with the recommendations of the Civil Protection Staff, and following all of the above, the DZS has made a decision to postpone and test the list and we have a law where instead of the reference moment on 31 March 2021 we now have a new 31st of August this year, the census as we have seen will be conducted in two phases. The first phase, instead of the 1st to 10th of April, is proposed between 13th and 26th of September of this year, will then be done independent censusing through the e-Citizen system while the second phase would be announced from 16th to 7th of May, now being proposed from 27th September to 17th of October, and then we have a census by personal interview by the censusor, and also the mother and possibility of extending that deadline to 29th of October. Furthermore, in the event of the inability to carry out the list, it is prescribed that, following the specific circumstances of the new deadline, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will be able to determine by a specific decision which will then be published in the National Journal, and special circumstances entail an event or a certain situation which could not be predicted and which could not be affected and which endangers the lives and health of citizens or property of greater value. We also have this proposal, and it is predicted that by 31st Kolovoz the names of the border and area of spatial units will not be changed, the State Geodesy Administration also submits a report to HS on the jobs and spent funds until 15th of November this year. The census is a legally regulated collection of statistics on each individual member of the population of a particular country or area and citizens on the questionnaire provide information about themselves and the list is a statistical tool used by the countries for various purposes. This is the most extensive and complex statistical survey in terms of the number of units covered, and the richest source of data on the population of a country that we need for economic, social, demographic, development and other policies and various scientific research. Quality planning and decision-making can only be carried out on the basis of official quality statistics and these data are not only used to analyse the identified situation but also to compare and see certain trends and also to bring forecasts for the next period. The list also applies the recommendations of a conference of European statisticians for censuses and dwellings, and the main purpose of those recommendations is to provide guidance on the planning and implementation of the list for better international comparability of data. For the definition of the total population, as I said in the replica, the concept of the usual place of residence will be applied in accordance with the 2008 Regulation already applied on the 2001 and 2011 lists. Different regulations lay down common rules in data collection, as well as definitions and classifications which Member States are required to apply for the purpose of international comparability of data. The Republic of Croatia is thus obliged to provide answers to a number of questions prescribed by the regulation and we can say that these questions and recommendations are essentially 80% of the questions and data and other questions are nationally defined and we have a number of data and we get surveyed. This list envisions and plans to hire about 9 and a half thousand participants for implementation on the ground, unlike in 2011 when there were 17 and a half thousand, and in 2001 as many as 25,000 censuses. Since it will now be possible for e-Citizens to make that enrolment through the system. And as I said once again, I say that this Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Census, Households and Apartments in the Croatian Club of Democratic Communities will support, and I believe all other clubs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41660	Next debate on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club, distinguished representative Ivan Penava.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41661	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable State Secretary and Director of the State Statistics Institute, respected colleagues and colleagues. First of all, regarding the procedure itself and this urgent procedure, I must also say at the club that we are against such practice although it is made possible, of course, by the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, I will also specify the provision of that same Article 204. I will simply appeal to the opinion of the Constitutional Court of 2013 which defined, gave these practices simply prevent public debate and choke the spirit of parliamentaryism in the Croatian Parliament and that they should be avoided. What about the list that is measured and what I will actually look at and, of course, in addressing the Croatian people and the nation and saying that immediately in the beginning we delete all the expensive illusions that this list will be objective. Why? Well, here's the thing that's already been seen in the views of many of my predecessors who say that this list is going to be the same by methodology and by the previous one except in this section as to the possibility of doing the list by electronic means. Why is it so necessary that we all ask ourselves together? The answer lies in one simple fact because, in Croatia, the law dealing with the census, but also the electoral laws are not passed with the aim of determining the exact and objective number of inhabitants or the deployment of forces, in principle, one person, one vote, according to that principle of equality and equality. In Croatia laws are not passed for the sake of truth but for manipulating the number of people and the number of votes. The laws are passed in such a way as to adjust the result that is contrary to the interests of every Croat and every citizen of this country. This procedure is of course known to us, it is called political engineering or technical democracy. I'll give two recent examples of what's going on. One is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Elections, which was voted on December 15th on the basis of what is the measure of the matter of the SDSS proposal of Mrs. Jeckov of 9. A December where, in fact, through the amendments, it has provided the SDSS with votes for which it does not actually have a cover and to which it has no right. Of course, the ruling coalition made up of SDSS and HDZ adopted it. In the shortest lines on the case of the town of Vukovar, the SDSS once won the elections in the city of Vukovar regularly through seven council mandates. In the last election, and this isn't going to work for him. The maximum hope for what happened in 2017 was two council mandates and that hole was to be replaced. It was not a good enough way to go so far that the donor included members of the Serb national minority and parties who had them on the list, but directly in such a dirty, ugly way it looked to change the will of all the citizens of the town of Vukovar and to give the simple possibility that in a separate cycle for the second time a certain group of people would come out and vote for the same thing they had voted for once. Of course, we are coming to the constitutional right of representation of the national minority and also in the City Council of the city of Vukovar which is based and which brings us to the famous census. The basis for representation, participation in the city council or municipal councils or county parliaments, and ultimately the census. The census we have been showing for ten years, we are proving, the wrong figures, we are calling for different databases that are not the very population list, but which are talking about the number of students in the specific Vukovar of the Serb national minority, which, of course, are 19% according to the census of the Serb national minority, is 35%. We're talking about enrollment in the first grade of the basic school where on the basis of other databases, the first class requires that the primary education law enrolls 320 children, and it enrolls 240, 40% of children are not present and no one wonders where they are. In order to hear from the parent board, the Assembly Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government, due to all these arguments just and from the representatives of the State Statistics Office, here, colleague Bauku may not have known about this, heard that the State Statistics Office knows that the 2011 census is incorrect in the city of Vukovar. Watch the absurdity, based on that 2011 list. For 10 years, the city has been blocked, certain parties enjoy privileges, people who should not take certain places and draw certain rights from them do so. Based on lies and obsession. The obsessions I've been thinking about for a long time, and here's some excuse that it's generated by the SDP only happens to me now after 10 years of deja vu and I realize that it's both 2009 and '10. Someone else was in power and passed those laws and spent a list in May 2011 to welcome someone else. And now we're going under quotes, and we're actually doing what the ruling SDSS and HDZ coalition is doing on purpose, and I'm going to tell you both the public and the public actually know why this list can't be objective. There is a very clear provision behind which the State Statistics Institute stands behind and says the censusors will not and must not verify the credibility of the data. The other thing will be the person's quote of persons who will stay or intend to stay in the Republic of Croatia for at least a year. However, how will you establish this by the basis of what is it that anyone intends to stay in the Republic of Croatia? And in the end there are misdemeanor provisions for the provision of false data in the amount of 2 to 5 thousand kunas, I ask you when we found that the incorrect list in the past 10 years has been in force in the Republic of Croatia has anyone been responding to the basis of false and unworthy data? It's not. As was the ruling coalition on the census, I will remind Mr Branko Bačić of a statement from 27.2.2020 following a coalition meeting, where after the meeting of the ruling coalition, I quote SDSS and HDZ said that in relation to the Census Act, the census in the areas where national minorities are concentrated is done by censusers who come from the ranks of national minorities. The people say it's not snow to cover the hill. It's to find the beast a clue. A legitimate political stance although I disagree with it, but it needs to be repeated. What is the measure of the census that needs to be made public, loudly and clearly these are data on the census of the national statistical office, and I picked them up from the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, based on the 2001, 2011 censuses and estimated half of the year as you said 30.6.2009, and they give you the following data. Brutal data. Osijek-Baranja County lost 57,833 inhabitants in those 18 years. Vukovar-Srijem County 5,9.03 inhabitants, this is your entire Homeland War times three. From 205 grand to 151 grand. You will talk, and we will all hear about billions of kuna, unfortunately among the five Slavonian counties, Sisak-Moslavina, Bjelovar-Bilogorska and Karlovačka County have managed to get in, and finally I will say something that is clearly hidden from the public. According to the same data, Ličko-Senj County was then on 44,625 inhabitants, Požeško-Slavonska na 66,256 inhabitants and Virovitičko-podravska on 73,641 inhabitants. The whole county. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41662	The next debate is on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club, the distinguished representative Marijana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41663	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, so we're in the year when the census is up. And it's logical, given all of the conditions in which we live today, the pandemic's conditions for both these dates and the population's maintenance plan to move, so in this respect we don't mind moving these dates. But here I'm going to talk a little bit about the techniques of the population census today, here in the 21st century, with the conditions and technology that we live with. We're a country that when you ask, we don't know what the number of employees in the public sector is, we don't know what the number of voters on our list of voters is and there's no dead, etc., we don't know what our number of evicted people are, where they live. The Constitutional Court has established the number of voters for us, so we wonder if we can also do this census by addressing the Constitutional Court. So they say here that the census, households and apartments, is the most complex and extensive statistical survey, which, whether, organized, runs, runs, the State Statistics Institute, and as I found out, is the fact that for the implementation of the 2021 census, the state has therefore provided 177 million kuna. It is therefore carried out every 10 years, this is the fourth consecutive census of the population of Croatia and is carried out, therefore, a list according to demographic, economic, educational, migration and other characteristics as well as data on households, apartments and about their characteristics and these data obtained in this way should therefore be used to determine our country's economic and demographic strategies. The newspaper of this year's list is that it will be carried out in two stages. The first phase is planned to run through the electronic system of e-citizens, so people would self-record, whether, themselves and their own hosts, and in the second stage those who do not want in this way or cannot, have no opportunities, in the second phase, this will be done by the censusors on the ground and, as we have found the data, should be hired somewhere around 10,000 people on the ground, what the censusors, controllers, instructors, coordinators, etc. So, what I'm looking at as someone, here, who's been doing IT all his professional life, 25 years of experience in IT, so I'm interested in the technique itself and the census process, and accordingly these costs, so here's why I've been asking these questions at the introduction. So what does the population list in Croatia look like in the 21st century? The Eurostat Guidelines and Recommendations, the European Union's roof statistical body, recommends that Member States create a prerequisite that key demographic data are delivered to Eurostat at an annual level, not every 10 years, following this list of 2021. That's why we should have an up-to-date, so-called. administrative register of the population and administrative register of buildings and apartments so that they can provide annual data on the number and structure of the population and households in Croatia. The population register would thus contain household data from the number of household members, sex, occupations, marital status, to nationality and other specifics, and the register of buildings and apartments should have data on every apartment in the building, room, kitchen, bathroom, and this should therefore be changed in any renovation of the apartment or house. It is also said that such registers already exist in Croatia at the Ministry of Interior or in other ministries, institutions, other state and local authorities, and in response to a comment from the public debate on the population register, it is said that the Institute of Statistics is not responsible for the establishment of the register of the population, but supports its establishment. In the European Union, therefore, only Ireland, the United Kingdom, France and Croatia do not have such administrative registers, and the most urgent are the most accurate in the Scandinavian countries. Those countries that have registers carry out the census according to the data they receive, and the classical census works alongside Croatia, Bulgaria, Romania, Slovakia and Hungary. Now, in today's time of digitisation, new technologies, the opportunities that technology provides, the census shouldn't be some kind of long-term process where data is collected for months, later processed for years, but today's technology provides the possibility that, apart from being able to use these tools, the type of e-citizens then and on the ground of the censusors using tools, tablets, similar devices, we've heard here, there will be laptops that will then be delivered to the Ministry of Science, Education, so this technology allows you to immediately fill the data into the databases and that the processing itself is reduced to the least possible measure, i.e. that the current, therefore, as you enter into the field in the evening you have data from the field. Now, why do the projects last years, why all the registers, the databases in the state aren't connected, we don't get all the data on one click? Why do we have the dead on the voters' lists, why does the OIB not have enough information for this kind of thing, so for all state institutions, why is the state asking us for the information it already has? The birth certificates, residences, housewives, certificates of citizenship, etc., did they ask you how many times they already have that in their registers, so when we finally become a state without paper, it was announced here, and I think, as it wasn't, the state without paper was announced, Mr. Bauk was laughing, and he was announced by a colleague, a state secretary from Carnet, so he announced a state without paper, here at the time of your government, so there's no way to experience that state without paper. And probably because there's a chance we're taking advantage of, so there's always a bit of an earful somewhere, so people get jobs on some unnecessary jobs, and then it's expensive and expensive to pay for it, so even laptops are ordered that are and I don't know three times as expensive as I don't know pills or smartphones, etc. In October 2014, the final report on the total cost of the 2011 census, so the census of that year cost 117 million kuna, so here is the announcement now 177 means 60 million more. Here we have heard from the secretary of state as it will be obtained laptops whether it's a very justified price since 830,000 data so that about 830,000 people used at least once e-Citizens, and I say other registers and other databases in the state contain most of the data required by this census. So, today here's the data science or the data science, there are experts who even work a little bit better to use Excel, table calculators if not some databases more complicated. So in the age of data science, it should connect all these registers in the country that the state has on various sides and collect most of this data that is purchased in this way. And here we've heard here, and the question is, or the censusors are actually listing data based on the statement of the one they're listing, they're not verifying credibility. Well, that's how a man when you come to his home or here by e-citizens when he enrolls, so he can make a statement about anything. It can be declared as I don't know it was in the lists and Eskimo, and I don't know all sorts of nationalities, so no one checks the credibility. We heard on the Finance Committee that it's doing some cross references with other bases and some part of the data check still exists, but I'm saying in today's time technology it's just unimaginable. The experience from Bulgaria says that using this independent census, they managed to list 40 per cent of the population, some other countries came up with a 10% figure, but here I appeal that at a time of technology we take advantage of all the opportunities that this technology provides, cut costs and cut deadlines for this census.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41664	The next debate is the SDP Representatives' Club, the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41665	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Vice President Sanader, and before him, counterpart Radin showed an unprecedented tolerance to tolerate a speech that is completely off the table on this agenda item. So this is where we discuss Covid, not the census. The population census is delayed due to the Covid-19 pandemic, which is why the census is delayed, the law is talking about this. Of course, as many colleagues took the opportunity to speak a lot more widely, starting with my colleague Puljak, and before that, colleagues Petrov and Rasputic, colleagues of Penave who even had a need to apologize to me, so I will consider it in a little while, will be on observation to see how mature he is in this, reducing international tensions, and so I will take this privilege to expand the subject a little bit. First of all, what's the population list? On the site that talks about, in the explanation, the census is the largest statistical survey in the Republic of Croatia, so the survey. It's a poll. How will data from the survey be checked? If I say I'm Eskimo, then the recorder will sign up to be Eskimo and then this one will be on Brač one or more Eskimo. If I say that I am a Hajdukian in religious commitment, then instead of one agnostic or atheist, there will be a Hajdukovac more on Brač and no one can check it. So it's a poll. That's the first thing. In other words, as regards the economic, economic consequences of the census, the results of the census will be used by those who have the will, desire and money as one of the references, whether or not the investment will be decided. So if they see that somewhere in the last 10 years, the population has decreased by 20%, they're going to assume whether or not they're going to shrink by another 20% in the next 10 years, so they're going to adjust some of their own, some of their own things. As far as other data are concerned, they will also be evaluated after the results of the census, so the economic chamber and the statistical office are doing so, and what remains solid as a basis for political debate is, in fact, the rights of the national communities in the local self-government elections, not even for the Croatian Parliament. So, whether it shows up, for example. that the number of Bosniaks is doubled in relation to the last census because part of citizens who last declared themselves as Muslims that no one checks the same because we have the right to check because it is a free choice and a poll, they will not get the right to choose their own representative in the assembly but will continue to be in the electoral unit with Albanians, Montenegrins, Macedonians, Slovenians and Bosniaks, without Muslims they will not have the right to vote for the minority list at all if they are so in the census. This applies, for example, to Roma where the census lists a significantly different number than in the list of voters. And as it is done in the list of voters, we have seen an investigation involving the Hungarian national minority. So, an investigation has been opened because someone paid the Roma to plead as Hungarians, I think it's even been passed by an inadmissible verdict. So with the story of the voters list, there's really no visa, but literally nothing. It is only in this part that the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities foresees, which is that in local elections based on the results of the census for the next 10 years certain rights of national minorities or members of the Croatian people will be exercised where members of other peoples make up a relative majority, the right to the number of council members, the right to the deputy mayor or mayor and the right to an equal use of language and letters where members of a particular minority have over one third. And that's what HDZ colleagues and ministers probably didn't understand, but they didn't understand the Homeland Movement either, they would have the right to additional elections if it didn't happen, so far they haven't. So, you've introduced a double right to vote at a local level and I congratulate you on that, we would never dare do that because you would probably declare us, if I didn't say what now. Is it just and constitutionally for the Constitutional Court to decide, decide on everything and relatively quickly. For example, for the question of an activist, it took them a few weeks, which is not bad, it would be good if they decided to do so until the local elections that we know that those participating in the elections know by which law they are actually going to go to the elections, if a colleague of Pavicek has already filed that request because he will draw up lists based on what the law is. And the lists will be drawn up, I will immediately tell you how, and that is that many parties will put people on top of the list who do not declare themselves members of national minorities so that they can then win additional elections to increase the number of council members because they will only vote minority members. As a party voted by representatives, citizens of all nationalities, I have no problem with that, but I wonder how you let it go, but that's your problem, not ours. As for the local elections that will relate to the census, I have asked one question, local elections are actually a much greater epidemiological risk than the census because citizens have to go to collect signatures, candidates have to go to collect signatures on this and can't go to e-Citizens as they can according to this proposal. So if we delay the census from spring when the epidemiological risk is lower in autumn when the epidemiological risk is greater than that, I find it interesting. However, since the government's proposal that the government can and can resolve this by its decision is ultimately likely to delay another time if the number of people infected is more daily than today, although, of course, this now with vaccination is not going as planned, and of course I am rooting for the government to solve it, I must admit it. The SDP club will support the postponement of the census for a certain period of time. What we would like to point out, however, is that there is no way to verify that we will have to trust the censusors of our mothers that they have exactly listed the specific national structure of the population. And then we'll just see, and Vukovar will be one example of whether the right to use the language and letters of the Serb national minority or not, but I can already say that certain colleagues from the Assembly will be sure that if the thing is below the line that one will say that the list is fine, and the other is not, and if the percentage is above the line, that some will also say that the list is fine and some is not. That does not change in the Balkans, and on these issues we are thick in the Balkans as well as some of our neighbouring countries. Dear colleagues and colleagues, to conclude the SDP club will vote in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41666	Following individual debates, the first representative is Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41667	Thank you very much. What will this census show? It is likely that HDZ colleagues will say that it is not as many evicted people as it will show the census, although the question now is how will it turn out statistically, but the fact that Croatia goes far below 4 million if we continue this trend. This will now be visible and I can now talk about this problem which will now be seen in local elections where national minorities will have the right to double vote. After the city council's election vote, municipal elections will go again where they have a percentage constitutionally guaranteed, again there will be other elections so that they will have to, that means you are colleagues from HDZ together with Milorad Pupovac not this time SDP, not communists, I don't know who you would all make up that it was voted during another government. But you brought it in, you favored Milorad Pupovac to control the parts of Croatia and there are 12, 13 mayors guaranteed, 40 deputy mayors, three, four secretaries, so that the Croats must have guaranteed it. That's where you fought hard in Vojvodina, we see that this reciprocity that was in 2004 and '05. For the protection of our Croats, too, that you fought there, so these statistics will show that they will be interpreted dryly, yes. Milorad Pupovac will say that not enough people of the Serbian national minority, you will say that it has not moved so much and that will turn out to be, but unfortunately I can say for my Dalmatian Zagora that since... I will mention the counties established that it has evicted 100,000 people from Krka to Neretva, we are talking about Zagora, when I am talking about the area from Krka to Neretva in the background. And that's the data that these statistical indicators will now, when it's done, do this list of voters that's going to show that's the problem, is the problem that we're taking. If we just take statistics behind statistics, if we're based on these indicators in certain areas, in certain I don't know policies, we don't direct people to stay in these areas, then these statistical indicators that we're going to have, a list that every ten years doesn't really make sense. Because the fact that in the elections not even the elections, it seems to me that there was someone collecting signatures for the president or I don't know why they even signed dead and the elections would probably be voted dead. Not likely, but certainly because it is inserted into the boxes of those unfavorable ones, so statistical indicators must always be some kind of parameter that should not be interpreted in the interest of some kind of policy ruling. Because I'm really asking myself this is what my colleague Bauk now mentioned, which would have been if he had brought a double vote to minorities by bringing the SDP to Croatia. What would HDZ do? You made it possible for Milorad Pupovac, you gave it to Milorad Pupovac, you. You're being unfair, unfair. Not that I hate national minorities, but I live with people of the Serb national minority. The Serbian national minority and others play a major role in the creation of the Croatian state, a major one. There are only 10,000 Serb national minorities... I won't list Roma, everyone else participated in the defence of the Republic of Croatia in all units. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These elections will show it. And to you, those are your friends, it was for you to maintain power and you couldn't call a referendum, but you spit 400,000 people in the face, 400,000 people for signatures. For the signatures, Your Honor, Secretary of State. 400,000 people gathered the signatures of Lovra Kuščević, Andrej Plenkovic, Josipa Rimac, the gravestones of the referendum threw it away. They didn't want to show us the signatures because people gathered, we don't want to agree with that referendum. But if the citizens of the Republic of Croatia have collected such short-term signatures for amendments to the Election Law, then the tribunal will call a referendum on either the Istanbul Convention or I don't know what, which I don't even agree on and agree on. However, your democracy is the favor of the Pupovac who holds your stand, i.e. You hold on to him. He's your boss. You've introduced a double vote from the HDZ, Mr. Sanader. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41668	Replica Marija Selak-Raspudic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41669	Following this debate of yours, where and the census of the inhabitants, it may have always been and had the political dimension of what your predictions are, resulting in this census of the population that has been announced recently if it can be held in the autumn at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41670	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41671	Unfortunately, I can only say for my Chetino end, the former Sinj municipality that was in '91. Whether 72000 inhabitants, today we have 48 per last list. Perhaps, unfortunately, less. I will show in the area of the Republic of Croatia certain areas that are literally empty from Slavonia, Gorsko kotar, Zagora, Like, certain areas that are empty. For what? It's not just the statistical indicators that are going to show it now, it's the problem that we simply from these statistical indicators don't plan strategies and policies mainly in these areas that are moving out and you're going to show that we're unfortunately, I wish we didn't, that we have under four million people, unfortunately. Because the damage to these policies will be seen in these indicators after this signature. The damages made more than all the occupiers who were from the Turks to today.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41672	Next replica, Nino Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41673	Dear Representative, perhaps best on the lack of consideration of this big deal, this expensive job also tells the fact that the opportunity to ask within the questionnaires is a matter of importance for any future planning. We have this question about a cow, and it's good to have people wondering if they own a cow. I'm sure there will also be a devastating result compared to ten years ago. You yourself know in rural areas that fewer and fewer people bake bread, have cows and their milk, and soon, as far as seeds are concerned, they will probably be less and less processing their own garden. But don't ask questions about access to the Internet or any other questions that we've already been through so many homes and pay so much for such a big job. We can't get a better insight into population information. What can tomorrow plan everything from e-school to other business? That fact is simply scandalous to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41674	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41675	The Croatian fact has the most expensive Internet services, i.e. TV operators, the worst Internet, the most expensive and the biggest profits are provided by EU telecom operators in Croatia. What does that mean? The worst services, the most expensive services of equal corruption directly from the can say the Misetic Dynasty which affects everything we have a big problem of what our children say if it is a line of teaching must climb the tops of the hills to reach some kind of signal. That's a fact. And unfortunately, and this is the first thing you mentioned when you mention cows, mostly lambs now in election time, all the herds will be clocked to win the election. All the herds will be down by now, they've already ordered a flock of lambs and their mother who will slaughter them, spin and try to win the election and buy people in that way. But I believe that time has passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41676	Next individual debate, Marija Selak-Raspudic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41677	My colleagues and colleagues, allow me first a few notes with these amendments and additions to the law, and then I will move on to another register that also tells us a lot about how many Croatians there are, and more about how many Croatian voters there are and the actual indicator of the exodus in Croatia, or Croatia. Therefore, as regards these amendments and the addition of Article 8a. refer to specific circumstances which could not be affected by which this list is delayed. I would like to remind you that those circumstances that could be affected, which may not lead to a delay in this list or potentially rescheduling it if the epidemiological situation doesn't improve, are the way we're going to deal with this epidemiological situation. So, are we going to get the necessary vaccine, in which way we will make sure that our citizens are protected so that life can continue under normal circumstances, but also that our citizens are protected. We could have had this list now, and surely we could have had it in the fall that the ruling structure for our citizens took care of it in time. I therefore consider a cynical interpretation of the specific circumstances which are said to have no effect on them and affect the delay of the list. It could have been. That there was political wisdom, that it reacted in a timely manner, could be ensured that all citizens can freely access the census safely in the fall, if not before, and this is how we will depend on the good will of the virus, not our political ability. Secondly, as I consider cynical in the consultation report, we have only three comments, the answer to all three comments required by the population register that would connect with the voters' register and which require that they go towards the e-voting system and the e-vote is that the Institute is not in charge of this, but strongly supports any initiative to plan its establishment. You support the initiative? Someone in power is supporting the initiative. What does that mean, please? If you want something to change and there's a register of voters, it's probably you who can spend it in action, not writing to the citizens that you're going to support the initiatives, so it's really making jokes out of both e-consumption and citizens' ideas. So, mostly you're not telling the truth, you don't support any initiative, because you can do something like that if you're willing, because you're the government, not some kind of supporter standing by and watching what initiatives someone who isn't in power is going to suggest. Don't be ridiculous. To come to another theme of the voters' register. For the first time, I don't know if you're aware, in February of this year, the Ministry of Justice and Administration published a register of voters that differs from all registers so far, because, finally, after our repeated demands, that they publish voter status across countries, where they are, for the first time, we have received full statistics on where the Croatian voters have ended. I will remind you that in the last, only two years from 2018 to 2020, we have lost almost 40,000 voters. It's more voters than it is abroad. The voters are not anyone, they are a real indicator of what the situation is, because they are the ones who have qualified to register abroad, which means that there are great assumptions that they will remain there permanently. 40,000 just in two years, those who think seriously about leaving Croatia. When we talk about those who have registered in other countries, it is evident that there are even 178 867 Croatian voters whose location is unknown. What's the unknown? I will also remind the Republic of Serbia, as it has been said today, that 115 492 voters have been registered there, which is about 80,000 voters more than in 2013 when Croatia entered the European Union. Thus, so many Serbian citizens are now using Croatian citizenship, i.e. enjoying the privileges that we have by joining the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41678	Replica. Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41679	Thank you very much. You mentioned in the list of voters of our people who are abroad, and we mentioned, so since the census is going on, they are very important to you, of course because in democracy people decide one vote, people choose their representatives, here are local elections, how much would it mean to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, especially these people who have moved out, which policies are mostly political because of economic reasons, electronic and correspondence voting? Now, I've come to think of it because it's been mentioned here the whole time that a census is going to be carried out because of the Covid crisis, because of the epidemiological measures, and they can't think of the ruling ones, yes, and that proposal was also in the procedure, the electronic and correspondence vote, which would solve the biggest part of the Covid measures problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41680	We decided to go towards respecting the status of the digital nomad, as Estonia had done before. When we discussed these amendments and the additions to the Law that applied to regulating the status of the digital nomad, I mentioned exactly the fact that they have regulated electronic status and the possibility of electronic voting, which is how Croatia could go, that it really cared about democracy, especially in these conditions of the pandemic being realised in practice. I think it's very important for all of us to know exactly what our register of voters abroad looks like, unfortunately, we don't have that list for the previous years, so we can't figure out how the dynamics of going to certain countries have changed. However, we learn a lot from this. And the fact that it is primarily an economic issue for all countries, because those who, even taking Croatian passports or going abroad, did so to make them live better there.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41681	Next replica, Nino Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41682	We have been witnessing for many years what we call Eurofanatism of our rulings, which is one unquestionable takeover and admiration for everything that comes from Brussels and European institutions. But strangely some of the recommendations of the European Union are completely silent or bypassing from the same Eurofanatics. One of them is a recommendation on the creation of a population register, the list of which is the starting point, it is necessary to pass the Population Register Act and, when the census is carried out, the base is constantly updated, deceased, born, relocated, and currently we know the state of the population, and not with a delay compared to the previous census. However, even though this was shyly announced, there is no view of the Law on the Register of Population. What makes you think ruling is obstructing it?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41683	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41684	The highlight of cynicism is the response we received in e-consultation to citizens' demands for population registering and connecting with voters' registers that they strongly support every initiative to plan its establishment. That's what the government told you. You start the initiative, not the government that's there to be executed, so it works, and then there's their declarative support. Of course, such a thing could have been done, that there was no will for such a thing, primarily for political reasons, because they were the same reasons we've been waiting for for years. And now we only have current data for the previous year. That we do not know where the Croatian voters are, that we do not know who is manipulating the voters and that we do not know how the election results are coming. In Bosnia and Herzegovina, we have 322 298 Croatian voters, in Ireland only 1,658. Many who have left have not registered.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41685	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41686	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleague Selak Rasdic. We have a very interesting situation. So, we have before us in the emergency procedure of amending and supplementing the law where the list of citizens in the Republic of Croatia is being transferred, i.e. to the population for another time because we have Covid situation, and on 16 May we have local elections, with what I must admit, personally even that act of choice itself is not so much bothering me, because I can be, you can keep an eye on, you can control, so you can air up space, but what I certainly have a problem with is collecting signatures. So, I'm not going to get into any other situations, but in the city of Zagreb, to be a candidate or candidate for mayor, that is, the mayor is 5,000 signatures that you have to collect from citizens in conditions that are very, very risky. What do you think about that, anyway? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41687	The moment these elections were called and the reason I entered politics was because the elections were scattered in the middle of the pandemic, which we did not go the regular way, where we saw that this pandemic could also be used for political purposes, depending on what the current political goal of the ruling structure was. That's why I feel like we're talking about measures on what you're asking as a question, only when it suits someone. So, I'm afraid the question is whether we're going to have an election in May and it's going to depend, not on actual epidemiological numbers as much as it is on the polling results that show that certain political parties are standing, because what you've asked is an open question, if we have such strict measures for some other regulations, but that's only going to move if it's politically appropriate for someone.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41688	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41689	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. There is, therefore, a first and second reading, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the List of Populations, Households and Apartments in the Republic of Croatia in this year 2021. Having in mind the situation in which we live, and I deeply believe that this situation in which we live is not normal, I am not surprised that the list of people has been transferred to other conditions, because it's normal, logical, and I don't have that problem. Of course, we had one choice when our prime minister declared that we had won Corona and then we could have had the election in the summer and then we listened to different options and different variations. And now we have a very interesting situation. It's always known the date of the local elections, the third week of May. That's May 16th this year. It's always been fun for me, there's no tension now, if we're going to have a little bit of one or a little bit of one, it's known that the third Sunday of May is every four years local elections, so be prepared, fix, do, you know when it's, when it's up to you. And now we're all reading numbers. And we're hanging out that if someone thinks that the third wave of Corone isn't there, I'm afraid they're wrong. I'd rather have the whole of Croatia split, I joked, and I said that Israel split both sand and palm trees and everything that was given, and then they'd never have dilemmas, they wouldn't even have this law, they'd live in some other conditions and they wouldn't discuss vaccines, I never did when I was vaccinated against the flu, wondering whose manufacturer you were giving me. I didn't even know there were several manufacturers. So, if the whole country had been split, I wouldn't have had a dilemma at all. I must tell you, I have a serious dilemma. We have May 16th elections, they haven't been scheduled yet, but it's legally defined. Signs need to be collected to be a candidate at all. I'm asking you all together how we're gonna collect the signatures? We gonna have gloves for every one we're gonna, knock on the door? If we're collecting signatures and knocking on doors, then why can't the same thing be a census? I just like to have a principle and that principle is the same to us, and then if it's the same principle, then in that same principle we do, we live, everything else. So a list where you can have an e-Citizen we don't have. We move him for the conditions when he's gonna be okay because we don't want someone ringing the doorbell and bringing him in, so the situation is that ring the doorbell, he walks into a house where someone has a crown and then another five houses he's taking that crown into. So that's the situation we have. Now imagine how the signatures for the local elections will be collected. You won't ring someone's doorbell. You're not going around. You'll be in the open space. Will you have so many pairs of gloves and give each other gloves afterwards? Will you have so many pens? So are you going to spray all the time? My people, if we have a principle in which we say the census goes to some time when there are going to be conditions, then I kind of think that principle should also apply to local elections. But it will be worth what will be important at that moment. The census is extremely important. We're a country where every one of us when he talks about some subjects says - so there's about 4 million of us. The census is important because you base everything on it. It is based on a strategy of economic development, a strategy of spatial development. They're based on how you're going to develop a rail network, how you're going to have a communal network, what you're going to have with kindergartens, schools. But let's try on some list, on some population list we don't cheat. Let's try to get a real picture. Let's try to see how many people really live. Let's try to see how much empty property we have, how much empty living space we have. Let's try to see how much empty business space we have. Let's try to see how many people really live somewhere or don't live. We had a list 10 years ago. The results of those lists were as if you were pulling someone's teeth, tooth to tooth, to get any information at all because they were reluctant to publish the data. But the country, a country that doesn't want to know the real data, which doesn't really want to publish it, has a problem like any household or any human. So to me in this law are two topics. One topic is let's try to see what's real and get results, but this I'm putting in the context of local elections let's understand it to the end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41690	Time. We have two replicas. The first one's a representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41691	Comrade Dark Taritash, how many of us are there? Is that how that request often goes with the stands? Yeah. In order to be able to act politically at all, we should have known at least the basics, and that's for sure how many of us there are. However, how do you even expect that such a thing will actually be realized in practice when something that would be a basic tool that would show real statistics such as a population register that could also connect with the voters' register in accordance with the time in which we live comes across a cynical response from the Government where it is said, I must once again quote this: "that the Institute strongly supports any initiative to plan its establishment". Twice. Identical copied response. Also, this article 8a, which defines the specific circumstances that delay the list, says: “The circumstances that could not be affected and which could not be predicted.” After so much experience and after the debacle with the vaccine, what exactly could not be affected, and what can not be predicted? Where's the political responsibility?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41692	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41693	I can't resist this question of yours without using a little sarcasm and irony. The prime minister said the last 10 seconds lasted in Zagreb, so it takes 10 years to recover, and after a year we managed to write a decision. I have to say, let's say that when the legalization project went down at year level, there were 170 thousand solutions, so let me just compare. This is where we got one. The earthquake that was in Banovina or Banovina lasted longer because it was another vision and it was somewhere around 20 seconds, so I guess that's when you compare 1 second 1 year that it's been there for about 20 years. We won't get any law in which there won't be any e-project or some kind of e-program or so that the data is obtained in a certain way, and the basic data, the register of voters, has no chance. He hides "like a snake's foot" because he doesn't want to know.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41694	The next replica is the esteemed representative Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41695	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, you have properly raised all the doubts and questions that will arise from this epidemiological situation of insufficient fissure not only because of the elections, but also because of this census. As much as I am urged that people adhere to epidemiological measures, I'm afraid that in many situations, unfortunately, it won't be possible. You're going to some older population who can't hear, so how are you going to be 2 feet away from him? That's gonna be a big problem. When I asked the secretary of state what are actually criteria for those who will be censuses, so full-time, high school, informational writings, at least high school, information literacy, I mean, make sure they put you there and whether you're vaccinated or not. So this way I appeal to the government to really run and to divide as many people as possible not only those who list, but also those who list. Because I'm afraid we'll have four waves of pandemic if we get out of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41696	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41697	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. So I don't have any dilemmas here. I think it's first and foremost to break up maximum. But I think we should split up thematically. So people working in primary and secondary schools need to be split up. I think it's minimum that those who are censusors have to be split, that they can't be at all if they're not split. I often know how to tell you I'm an architect and it's, I understand some technical stuff. I don't understand this even though I used to joke that medicine is like that now so you can go to Google, so you can see how the appendix is operated, so you can do it a little bit. So even from the beginning, I didn't want to enter any vaccines, nor do I think it's important to vaccinate, and I don't care who the manufacturer is or what the vaccine is. But now, but what I technically understand, so I understand you come into a household and someone's infected. And you're the carrier of that virus everywhere you go that day in ten days. My people need to make sure that we don't turn the census into a new infection.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41698	Next replica, distinguished representative Marijan Pavliček.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41699	Dear colleagues, I agree with you. The first question is who will even want to apply as a census writer given the situation, who will want to expose their health, what will be the conditions. Whether they have to be vaccinated or not, or then we put them in an unequal position, or we force them into something if they do not want to. And the question also arises as to how these local elections themselves will be held, whether it will be fully regular or at the border of regularity, given that we are in this pandemic where we are and what instructions will be given by our very good Civil Protection Staff, in which way here we gather lists for the mayor of the municipalities, for the mayor, for the mayor. How do you do that? Will this time of gathering be extended from two weeks to three weeks or what has been done to us and how will this situation be resolved? As nearly a year ago, the rulings met the election date, so now it corresponds to all those in power in local self-government units because the opposition simply cannot reach the voters themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41700	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41701	Thank you very much. So we really live in a time that I want to forget as soon as possible. I believe that each of us wants to forget as soon as possible. But let's be reasonable. It won't change with a lot of things until there's really a very high cleavage, so until there's a maximum cleavage and we'll continue to vaccinate. And we're going to have to be vaccinated continuously until there's some other way, and I'm really not going to go into it right now. We really had those one choice when it announced the slag Corona was defeated in Croatia. And then we had the election, and then, of course, the prime minister said the opposition was talking because he was afraid of the election. Likewise, we, this topic of local elections, have also been set up, we are not afraid. We're not afraid. We'll do these elections the way we do, the way everyone else does. But our responsibility is to warn the problem. We have no idea what the number is today, but that number will be doubled in a week, two days. We've learned that before. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] And under these conditions we'll go to elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41702	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Marijan Pavliček.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41703	Dearly beloved, we are, unfortunately, a people who have been disappearing, who have been dying for almost 50 years, caught by the white plague. And that's unfortunately the characteristic of so-called. The modern world. However, as painful as it may be, I think it is in all of us's interests and the secretary of state and the rulings and opposition, especially the State Statistics Office, to get the right, relevant and accurate data as many of us as there are. How many of us are in total numbers in Croatia, Zagreb, Rijeka, Split, Korčula, Ilock, with me in Vukovar, and I think that's the goal for all of us. Because that is why state authority and local self-government will be able to develop development strategies in economic terms, the Strategy for the Development of Tourism, Defence, Agriculture. Because all of this other stuff is pretty unserious. And if the lists weren't nearly accurate by now, I'll give you some data. As the Dalmatian Zagora is extinct, such as the extinct islands, perhaps even more pronounced extinctions of Eastern Slavonia, Baranja, West Srijem, especially those parts that were covered by war. So, for example, in the far east of beautiful ours, you have a place called Bapska within the city of Ilock, which is in '91. There were 1690 residents per list. In 2001, there were some 1,300 residents after returning to the city. Ten years later, 2011. The figure drops to 920, and today less than 6 hundred inhabitants live in this village. So one-third compared to '91. A year. But what's worse is I could bet that that's how it's gonna be, that the list will show that there are certainly 800 and they're not there because they're all over Western Europe, all over the Republic, but they're also going to be in this list as residents of the town of Bapska which doesn't correspond to the truth. And there will be thousands and hundreds of thousands. And then we'll get back to the fake data and pet each other's eyes how beautiful and beautiful we are, and it's neither wonderful nor beautiful. I think that the censusors themselves must receive accurate instructions, that they must not come into a situation where the person in one household gives them 10 names and last names, 10 OIBs, and they will all sign up and they will become residents of that place, and 10, 20, 30 years do not live in that address. This happened to us in 2011, 2001. Let's not let that happen to us in 2021. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41704	The Republic has an esteemed representative, Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41705	Thank you, dear colleague. You've said one fact of inaccuracy about the white plague in the last 50 years. So according to the population lists we can and don't have to believe, but let's just say they're the only relevant choice. 1971. Croatia had 4 million 420,000 inhabitants, 1981. 4 million 600 grand, 1991. 4 million 780 thousand, and then from 1991 to here in 2021, the exact data is at least that's what the numbers say.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41706	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41707	Dear fellow Members, I can partly agree with you, but unfortunately since the 91st we've had the Homeland War, we've had the situation we've had, so we've had one, let's say, extraordinary circumstances. We hope that this pace, if nothing else, will at least slow down, if it doesn't stop, here I thank God I have three children so as to contribute my part to the survival of the nation, but here I believe that what is even more important is that those children who are born stay in Croatia and not go into a better world, with their belly after bread.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41708	The next individual debate will be Nina Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41709	The Honored Chairman, the Honorable Proposers, fellow Members and fellow MPs. On one occasion, interviewing Pope John Paul II. The journalist asked him an unusual, foolish question at first sight, but the answer was great. He asked him, Holy Father, if the Bible had disappeared, if the Scriptures had disappeared, and you could have kept just one sentence from the Scriptures, what would that be? And Pope John Paul II. After a brief imagination says the truth will set you free. We need the truth, first the truth about ourselves. A list is a kind of determination, a demographic truth once in 10 years. And what we should all be interested in is that we really see the true state. That no resident is listed who is really not there, and that he lives all the time, or that someone who is there is missing the list. Whether he is a Croat, whether he is a Serb in Podunavlje, that he is Roma in Međimurje, however. What's for sure for all the good is that we see our true, true demographic state on which anything can be planned. And without it, it's not working. And we are constantly trying to push through some of our own truths, I know that by ruling the list would prefer to show that Croatia has 5.5 million inhabitants that this is an increasingly younger and more potent population, but unfortunately the truth is different. One side in Vukovar would wish, we heard something about the Serb being over the border needed for bilingualism or bilingualism, the other claim was not so, it was less, fictitiously listed etc., but what is really good is, I repeat, that no one who really isn't there is always there, and on the other hand not to miss the list of who lives there. I'm glad that Mr. Bačić is here because he denied that she was out of line, so I'm going to name here the exact word of Mr. Professor of our demographic, Stjepan Stretz from an interview with Free Dalmatia, published on 9 March this year, so two weeks ago, where Sterc says next. It expresses its regret that the creation of the Census Act was not a part of the profession. To my direct question, who took part in the making of the Law, there is no answer, and the Census for Census in all serious countries makes people from universities who deal with population issues, except in Croatia, recognizably concludes Sterc. So either it's true that Sterc or Mr. Bačić didn't best state about involvement in the whole process including the making of the Law and this addition of the Law and this Census for Census. I'm sure everything would be much better, clearer and more accurate if the waist was involved. And where's the problem? I'll do it again briefly. The first is the problem, as regards the indirect listing and control of data obtained in such a way, the censuser comes, one person gives data for himself and for all the other residents, and we do not have any checks and confirmations that they are indeed permanent residents. If the profession had been included, someone would have thought to say this online census via e-citizens that at least the IP address from which it was done must be in Croatia, not that someone from Ireland, America, Germany or anywhere should be included and signed up for sentimental or any reason, himself and everyone in the house and not there. An extremely problematic category of intent to stay. Which means that someone says or someone else says for him, he's somewhere, but he's going to stay there for the next year, so he's signing up like he is, and he's not. As for the population register, I will quote Mislav Rubic, I mentioned him earlier in a speech on behalf of the Club of the Central State Demography Office, he said, I quote, "How does the government work on the population register," and he says, quote, "The population register will bring in real figures from year to year, and so we will be able to create more quality demographic policies," Rubic says. So when do we get the population register law? If this shift has now appeared in the list, unfortunately, because of the Coronus crisis, could we have used that time, since we are now going to make a list as a base and register of the population, that, just as with an emergency procedure as this Law has been pushed, we have a law on the population register and that we have something that is constantly up-to-date, true and current, on which to plan. Unfortunately, it is missed, an opportunity has been missed to perfect, not only this Law, along with these amendments, but the opportunity to finally start this story, which is successful from Slovenia and most European countries with a population register, which is much cheaper to keep it up to date than to make lists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41710	Replications. Maria Selak Rasudic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41711	A colleague of Bacic and a colleague of Stertz may be right. Namely, I have Solomonic solutions to this problem. They both probably think it was a profession, but the difference is how they define the profession. A colleague, Sterc, says the profession, thinks of academic citizens who deal with such topics, and counterpart Bačić, when he says the profession is referring to the HDZ membership card, which makes everyone expert on any issue and even more to resolve all issues in this country. My question, on the trail of what you've been saying, refers to the voters' register. It was only in February of this year that we first received a list of voters' registers by countries where our citizens are voting outside Croatia. How do you comment on the fact that we've been waiting so long and we still don't have a comparative analysis for all the years that have preceded this?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41712	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41713	I can only explain it with a metaphor of cloudy water. In order to be able to hunt in a cloudy place, water must be maintained in such a state. I don't see any other way why today with all the information and all the tools of the light technical that we have at our disposal we can't get clear and transparent registers. How to resolve the law and bring the population register, and finally fix the voters' registers. So the water is consciously kept cloudy so that it can be hunted in the cloudy, it's the only answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41714	Next replica, distinguished representative Marijan Pavliček.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41715	My dear colleague, you've said well. The only thing that matters is the truth in the census. That's the only reason we can have a strategy tomorrow. However, what to say when the census has been one political issue for many years, one political category, and not one statistical one that should be. Well, you mentioned Vukovar. Your best example is Vukovar. So the census says that members of the Serb national minority have almost 35%. At the same time, children who attend classes in Serbian and Cyrillic letters, and since I have worked for 10 years in education, there is about 18%, and 95% of all Serbian national minorities attend classes in this model, and around 23% of them are in Serbian-language kindergarten and Cyrillic. So here we have a disproportionateity where almost twice as many people are shown as there are in schools, which obviously means that there are numerous fictitious voters who are led like those who live there and they're not really there.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41716	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41717	By preparing for this debate, of course, that I had studied and what was happening just over a year ago when I was not in politics, I was not in that assembly when this heated debate was being held and the minority MPs moved away from the ruling majority of whom were part of the issue. Which was later negotiated at the table I don't know. But what was presented to me was a very surprising request, which is that more mother tongues can be declared. Now that a man can have more mothers to me it is not clear and mother tongues, but the problem obviously for a part of Serbian politics in Croatia was that 4.36% of our citizens are declared by nationality to be Serbs, while 1.23% of our citizens say they have Serbian mother tongue. Where did that come from? Well very clearly, someone born in Zagreb or Rijeka who is a Serb by nationality and language he speaks is different from the standard Serbian language and says his language is Croatian as it probably is. And now there was this strange requirement as some sort of segregation requirement that minority members must list minorities, which I think is a very bad path. Of course, it was alarming then that among the censuses there were no approximately proportional numbers of members of national minorities. But to edit and push it in such a way as to testify that the list is also viewed as some kind of political struggle by other means that I find not good.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41718	Time. The next replica is the esteemed representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41719	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You said you were not a parliamentary representative at the time, so I do not know how much you have been informed through the phonogram of the debate itself, but you have failed to discuss when you are talking about the amendment promoters who were then coming from the ranks of members of the national minorities and these arguments and possibilities of more mother tongues where this could be very much in Europe, but I do not have time, but I will be replicating you to this section that you are talking about the profession. I was twice extremely involved in the population lists in the Republic of Croatia and I think I know something about it. Not much, but what I do know is that it's the most important form that speaks about the census, the census. This list was submitted to all relevant institutions who could tell if they agree, what they have to add, how, in what way. So they were involved, the profession was included at 50 different institutions. Therefore, they were involved. Is someone more, someone less involved in it I don't know but I know that they were by the State Department they contacted.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41720	Time. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41721	My colleague Bačić, there are few of us and more or less we all know who is in Croatia academically engaged in demographics. So we're talking about Mr. Akrap, Mr. Stertz, among the younger we know about Mr. Stroth. Not a lot of people who could have been involved in even more serious counseling, not sending them some kind of well - established form, so they express their opinion. So I gave you what Professor Stertz said in an interview conducted two weeks ago. We can only trust him or not. However, a few examples that I have cited from the fact that this pattern does not question whether a person has access to the Internet and wonders whether there is a cow that is okay, says that there are some things simply fullane, as well as that there are no control mechanisms for this indirect signing or this very problematic category of intent of residence. So the pattern is not good because it creates some extremely problematic situations that can produce results that will be well-fictioned, it's a problem. And on the basis of what the men of the profession have said, they can publicly conclude that the problem arises from not being sufficiently consulted waist.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41722	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41723	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Rasudic, you have also opened the thesis that we must finally know how many of us are there. We need to know how many of us are there because that's what we base a series of things on. We've had some bad experiences when we've been messing around and messing around. So I've been involved in certain projects that have been linked to wastewater treatment devices that you're planning on some future population. But you can't plan on a future population of, say, 20,000 and you've got 3 grand. You know what happened to us? By the time we got to the end, and everyone was planning on that one irrational number that we all knew was irrational, everything went back to the beginning and said -- if you're now 3,000 on the last list of some unit of local self-government, lastly there were 4,000 you can only plan it at 8.9 thousand and not at 20. That's why it's important that we know the numbers we have. And if we want to lie to each other all right, but you can't lie to each other all the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41724	Your Honor, I agree. It should also be added that this hairstyle of reality is motivated and units of local self-government since the resources are shared in different ways compared to how many municipalities or cities or counties there are. So they're all getting a little bit into this fictitious situation to get high like frogs and show that there are more. What do we have left at the end? Perhaps we should all agree politically, so let's agree with the representatives of Serbs about in Vukovar how many Serbs and Croats there are in Vukovar, so let's give in one, then the other, and let's say the reality is that or for a number in a particular municipality, county, etc. Because this is what this is all about. So instead of having an objective scientific criterion that is regularly updated through the population register institution, we are essentially struggling around the census in a political way, where, in the end, the figure that will be obtained will be the result of the political relationship, because the base will be pushed from the municipalities and the county to register and the one that may have gone to Germany, but let's go maybe come back and we'll type it or not, or so on. All together away from that initial truth that I said could set us free.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41725	Time. Next individual debate, the distinguished representative of Domagoj Price.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41726	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. For more than 150 years in Croatia, we have censuses. They usually happen once every 10 years except in the case of war or epidemics. So here we see that at this point in the epidemic, for some obvious and reasonable reasons, we see that the census will be delayed in about half a year. As far as the census itself is concerned, they tell us a lot about our country. So they don't just talk about how many inhabitants there are in Croatia. They also talk about how many inhabitants we have in certain regions of Croatia, counties, cities, municipalities. They tell us about whether we have growth or a decline in the population. Unfortunately, we expect, of course, the next census to bring down the population. We see which parts of Croatia may be tempting for our citizens, so they may have a slight decline or even population growth. They tell us a lot about it, and it is especially important to pay attention to it, which is the educational structure of Croatian citizens. And of course we must also take care of the age structure of our citizens. I especially think it is important when data from the census come to watch the number of inhabitants in larger Croatian cities because they are very important for the development of a society of agglomeration. So, towns with smaller cities around them, with smaller places because they give people the best chance of hiring, but also the chances of health, education. Of course, smaller places in Croatia do not have many elementary schools, let alone high school, and of course only larger cities can have universities and thus give citizens some opportunities. The population list itself and the movement of the population in Croatian history alone were both ups and downs. The first census after World War II, Croatia had some 3.7 million inhabitants. After that, the population grew. In 91, the first census at the time shows that Croatia has grown to 4.8 million people. So in half a century we had as many as a million and 100,000 inhabitants. Unfortunately after that war, criminal privatisation has done its part. Croatia today has some estimates below 4 million inhabitants. So we lost to 4 million 800 thousand people, we lost 800,000 people, which is 1/6. 1/6 of our population, 1/6 of our fellow citizens as if it's gone, it's really scary. As far as the census itself is concerned, I have already warned today that 10 years ago when it was a list that the results themselves were delayed. It's not my criticism for the State Statistics Office. I think that they are a very important institution in our society, and that is why I think that the government itself should help to process the data, or find a way to process the data as quickly as possible. Ten years ago when he was a census means the first data came out in 2 months, but then some data came out after a year and a half. This creates a negative atmosphere in Croatian citizens. Croatian citizens doubt Croatian politics, suspect all Croatian institutions, suspect the judiciary, suspect health care. So it's good that any job to do and even a census means that it goes as best as possible to save data collection on the list itself and make the processing as fast as possible so that the data is as up-to-date as possible and get out as soon as possible. What is important today has been mentioned by many, and this is really something that should be done in the future, which is that we are really going towards some permanent population register where, thanks to the development of science and technology, especially the development of IT industry, we simply have a constant update from day to day of population and all other data so that the Croatian economy and also Croatian citizens, the Croatian public have this data as early as possible. Although I did not criticise that I was not considered to be critical here, I would still like to give them a proposal when and before I became a parliamentary representative when I asked as a citizen for some information when used means the website of the Croatian Employment Service or the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, I must say that I am relatively well on their website and I can easily find statistics. When I asked for the same thing on the website of the State Statistics Office clearly the DZS has a much larger number of data but it might be good to look at these two institutions to be a much better overview of the statistics themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41727	Republic of Honored Representative Romana Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41728	Your Honor, what do you think is the main reason for the reduction in the number of inhabitants in Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41729	Well, that fall obviously started decades ago in the '90s. One reason, of course, was war. But I think the key reason was the privatisation that was held back in the '90s. Unfortunately, at that time, Croatia lost 1/3 of its jobs and simply those losses were so great that even later reforms, Racan carried out reforms, started Croatia's entry into the European Union, built the Zagreb – Split highway, made some magnificent things, but the loss was so great in privatisation, so many jobs were lost to the loss of safety. It was just that unemployment was constantly high. A good part of people because they didn't either have a job or they didn't have a job so they didn't know if they'd have it in the future because of high unemployment. And when such uncertainty is created, people can't even plan a family, and that was the key reason, and then it got through for decades. And when the next economic crisis came in 2008, it only deepened further problems and that led to such a fall.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41730	Next replica, Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41731	Thank you very much. My friend Story, all this stuff you said is standing. However, it cannot be assumed that the census is the correct list of incorrect data. A lot of things haven't been laid down yet by this law, and a lot of things have been unscheduled in the implementation sense. I can tell you about them now, but it doesn't matter now. But what worries me is that actually the number of people we lost is much bigger than what the list last showed us and what this one is going to show us. Why? Because many citizens who leave the Republic of Croatia temporarily do not report that departure still remain registered in the Republic of Croatia, we still do not lead them as someone who has left until they are actually in Croatia. I can only give you an example in my hometown of Osijek that used to count over 100,000 inhabitants, now we'll be happy if there are 80,000 and I'm not saying it on the list again. The list may have more than 100,000, but in reality it's not, and it's seen by other indicators.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41732	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41733	During the debate today and in the replicas of the State Secretary, I also asked the question whether the methods were found to ensure that these data that will come out are accurate, which will be collected to be accurate. What you said about how data is collected is often said for statistics that sometimes the data is incorrect. It's possible, but we're comparing data from one poll to another, from one census to another, so if we're looking at the population census from 10 years ago, 20 years ago we see some regularity. So if there may be some inaccuracies, perhaps even earlier today, we see some correctness in the data at the time, we can still compare the current data.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41734	The next replica is the esteemed representative Vesna Vucilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41735	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My esteemed colleague, Proverbs, seems to me now a little bit like we're out of the debate, and it seems to me that our National Statistics Office here lists every 10 years, but we have estimates. Every year, it's an evaluation. Here's my approval, and those speech reviews, you know what? They say that the Osijek-Baranja County, from which I come for 20 years, has lost most of the population. So we had 330 thousand 506 2001, 305 thousand and 032 inhabitants in 2011, and the estimate was 2019. 272 thousand and 673 residents, minus 57 thousand 833 inhabitants since 2001, and that is the problem and that is the measure of the things why people are leaving and why we are losing residents in these rural areas because it is immediately the second Vukovar-Srijem County with 53,000 and 773 inhabitants.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41736	Time. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41737	Yes, I am particularly sorry about what you mentioned and what was mentioned earlier in the city of Osijek. Osijek is a beautiful Croatian town. It's a city that's not only an economic centre, it's a city that's an educational centre. There is a university, a proud university named after the great Josip Juraj Strossmayer, and I am truly sorry for that and for the decline of the population and therefore we must withdraw lessons that must change in order for Croatia to have a population growth again. And I especially pointed out this earlier when I was talking about the importance of these agglomerations, meaning wider areas of big cities that still give people great chances. So if someone also lives in a smaller place, because today they are small places or villages in Croatia if they are close enough to a bigger city if someone can sit in their car and from a small place where they live to the centre of a larger city within 30, 40 minutes are somehow those places have become suburban cities? It gives people a chance in terms of education, work and in many other ways.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41738	The next replica, distinguished representative Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41739	Dear Representative, here today we have heard more debates about how many losses have been lost, and you have mentioned even 1/6 that we have lost over the past how many years have you said that we have lost 1/6 people? Six in three decades, unfortunately. [[Adversity Story: Lost 1]] So in 30 years we've lost 1/6. Now, on the other hand, we hear all the time about giving money, giving help, giving subsidies, giving money out of funds, and asking the question. Who and how do you share that money? What are the criteria for sharing that money when people leave anyway? That's the first part of the question. The second question I wanted to make is the one I wanted to say. We actually have data on the census. We also have regular estimates of population movement statistics and we know about what's going on with our residents, plus minus, a few percent. The problem, however, is that our citizens do not respect the laws. If they normally checked in and checked out, then we'd know plus, minus a very small percentage. There's the gentlemen in the statistics, I think I can confirm.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41740	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41741	Yeah. Good thing you mentioned incentives, subsidies. Of course, there are those that are needed and good for society. But they all have their price. Of course, a kuna in subsidies must be given to someone at least one kuna collected in taxes and often more. It has to be more often... And that... [[You don't understand.]] more than 1 kuna must be taken through taxes to be made from citizens from the economy so that 1 kuna is given through subsidies. [[You don't understand.]] We've also seen corrupt affairs that are related to it. Generally yes, the big problem was in our society. We have a very large share of state property, which sounds like it's citizens' property, but of course it's not. Unfortunately, this is very often abused through corruption from a part of corrupt politicians. Then there are subsidies that burden the economy. So you take money from one piece of shit from the citizens and then the question is, what authority and to whom do you share the criteria of some money? That is why citizens should be relieved especially of the middle class through income tax.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41742	Next replica, distinguished representative Marko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41743	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, dear Vice President, I didn't mean to take your call but you pulled my sleeve when you started talking about the quality of the data. What frustrated me as the Minister of Labour was once that the number of employees we have through HZMO insurance companies and what we have at the State Statistics Office differed by one 90 to 100 thousand employees and then we discovered that the last director who was close to your option manually excluded all young people who have a subsidy or have support not to pay gross 2 out of that statistics. The same few years ago, he was the director of the European Commission from the ECFIN who said Croatian statistics are close to Greece. We were close to getting kicked out of EUROSTAT, so congratulations to the principal that she fixed it, that she included these employees, and I find it so fascinating that you're just talking about quality and criticizing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41744	Yeah, well, first of all, I really tried to be constructive to talk about something where we could exchange opinions, ideas to find the best solutions. You've entered that political part now. Now, how do I answer that? Unfortunately, the largest number of 1/3 jobs we have lost in the HDZ period, later reforms carried out by the SDP government, highway construction, have been launched during the SDP towards the European Union and NATO and other international integration, reforms have been carried out. Later, the government of Zoran Milanovic had to implement heavy austerity measures to save Croatia from bankruptcy and also implement important reforms for Croatian society. It's a slippery terrain when we get into political issues now. I commended the State Statistics Institute because I think they're all institutions, that they're a quality institution but I also had suggestions that can be improved even though it wasn't specifically up to the State Statistics Institute because there's a big data processing so that the government helps them in this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41745	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41746	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, Director. I would go back to the law itself and remind myself of what was happening in the past. This law speaks of the census, households, and apartments. So when colleagues talk about other data, then we need to look at that other data coming from other statistics when we talk about communications and all this has come from the negotiations on Chapter 18 on statistics since 2007. So, when it comes to whether or not anyone has the Internet, then that part of the list of statistics of communication provided by an office and what is known to be Croatia has achieved full compliance. Therefore, the person who gave the information at that time that he had or had no internet must be credible with the data provided at that time. Also when we talk about whether the data is correct or not, then here's the case. precisely the number of residents and whether in Croatia or not, the official statistics of the National Institute record the extent of emigration according to data from the Ministry of Interior and residence logouts. By 2012 those who had moved did not have an obligation to sign off officially with a residence in the Republic of Croatia. Since 2012 when a new law entered into force then each of us is obliged to apply and register in the police to leave the country for, say, longer than one year. That is why there are also criminal provisions and the question is whether all of our citizens who have left have checked out, and we know that they are not, because we can do it according to the Croatian Health Insurance Institute, pension, and especially health care to see that we have a lot more insurance than those we have in our official records. So by 2013, we also have a certain outflow. However, migration is certainly greater than Croatia's entry into the European Union since half 2013, and this is evident that by 2017 this migration growth was much greater. However, since 2018, this trend has been significantly mitigated. So when you look at the questionnaire itself published by the State Statistics Institute, then there you can see that you have 38 questions and in these questions is actually personal data, the OIB, residence of the housing regime, how, which is the educational structure. In addition, there are questions as to whether you have domestic animals or not, which is the personal data of each household and cannot be obtained in any other way unless it has been reported through the OPG. Therefore, the State Statistics Office must also use official data from all other providers and holders of these data and must also make certain logical controls in order to actually have a valid and quality basis and provide certain information on how it creates further policies. Therefore, it is important to point out that it is also the obligation of each of us and every citizen to respect the laws that have been passed and I say here and since 2012, everyone should respect that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41747	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41748	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, the Honorable Director of the State Department of Statistics with an associate, respected colleague and fellow Members, today we see this as a technical amendment to the Law on Census, and we had the right debate here and spent practically over a year ago where we entered into the measure of the law itself, we also had some recommendations and we discussed the law itself. And I think that law that we passed a year ago is very well balanced, prepared and has responded to the challenge that represents a census of the population that is normally held every 10 years. He's the most comprehensive, comprehensive, complete record the state has. And that is why it is very important to access the population list itself because it is later a basis for all possible policies, economic, social, demographic, scientific research. And a serious state without a high-quality census cannot conduct any of the policies mentioned earlier. I must congratulate the State Statistics Institute not only on the creation of this law but on everything that the State Institute very precisely, exactly annually publishes, quarterly and that every serious expert, scientist, politician, if you will, a public person who deals with any activity cannot function practically without relying on the data that the National Statistics Office has neatly provided to us. That is why I would also remove any doubts and doubts about whether or not the adoption of this law, the fundamental law, is in contact with the profession in Croatia. On 13 November 2018, and we have already discussed this when it started in the process of amending the law or making a new Law on the List of Populations in Croatia, many not ministries were already contacted, but institutions that have something to say about it. And about that they could plead and give their position, but I say that attitude and all that we're talking about will be sublimed on the list itself, which includes a number of issues that are of interest to Croatia as a state. Therefore, this profession was contacted not to say that every responsible citizen of Croatia through e-consultation, through advice on the interested public, has something to say about it if he follows at least those laws that relate to his, his profile and the profession he certainly has. There were also questionnaires here on how and how we have accessed this census and whether this census is the result of the fact that representatives of national minorities are part of the ruling majority in Croatia. We've heard this many times, how the rulings are valued, how we've given in, and this law is the result of how our opposition says trade, not serious coalitions. Well, I must make it clear to you that the population census in 2021 will be conducted as was the population census in 2011 and 2001, and nothing important has changed there. However, when the law was passed, there were two amendments, one that referred to the possibility that members of national minorities would otherwise declare two native languages, which should be said to the end, in some EU countries there is the possibility of declaring two native languages. At that time, as HDZ and the most important club of the ruling majority, we did not accept as well as the possibility of entering into the law an amendment that would determine the possibility of a proportionate participation of a censusor during the census itself, which we also failed to establish, but we said that the census and instructions followed by the law and already adopted by the State Statistics Bureau last March would appear to me that where there are a number of national minorities that the number of censusors, as in previous lists, will come from the ranks of national minorities, will have to meet all the conditions that apply to all other censuses in Croatia. Therefore, we then removed it as a doubt, as a doubt, and we said that the population census when it comes to methodology will be carried out the way it was done before. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41749	We have a few replicas. The first is the distinguished representative Vesna Vucilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41750	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Bacic, it is not disputed that this year will take place, the census is being carried out because Eurostat requires that all data throughout the EU be comparable. What is characteristic of the list is that it is a very comprehensive one study and since it is done every 10 years it is common to make a test list that is not made. You pointed out that the waist was included, but it remains unclear why no test list was created this time which is usually done something before the population list itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41751	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41752	I thank you, dear colleagues, for this will probably be answered by a representative of the government. So, how and how is he doing the test list. What I'm going to tell you is that a list of agriculture has already been made in 2020, where some data have already been provided according to the criteria provided by the State Statistics Office have been listed, implemented and this kind of test has been carried out. On how and how to access the list that will be in September, I hope that both the State and the Director, or the Secretary of State, will tell us.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41753	Next replica, the esteemed representative Maria Jelovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41754	Thank you very much, Vice President. My dear colleague Bacic, you said that this list we're about to have will be nothing different than the list we had last time, and that's true. However, given that there was a lack of talk during the debate today that even in the previous census, there was, in fact, at the end of the incorrect data and that it was not good, I agree, and I think it is in order for all of us to make the list as accurate as possible and that, on the basis of the more accurate list, all the activities that are important to do so can be planned. However, I think it would also be good to point out exactly how they are checked during the census itself which are the possibilities of controlling the collected data, so I ask you to say something about it as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41755	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41756	I thank the esteemed colleagues, when I said they would be identical then I talked about how to collect or collect data when it comes to what was questionable during the debate itself when the law was passed. The law changes itself and the fact that in the first part, the first 14 days are recorded on the method of e-citizens, and later the censusors enter the very space of censusing and watering the list in the way he has done before. Thus, in that part he differs. It's going to further mean a far smaller number, a double smaller number of censusors. Ten years ago there were about 17 and a half thousand censusors hired, now there will be 8 plus coordinators and instructors, all together around about 9 and a half thousand people will be engaged on this list. So in a certain part, he will be changed, but what created a struggle in Croatian society so here and in the Croatian Parliament there will be no difference compared to the previous list. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41757	Next replica, distinguished representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41758	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Bačić, here is some time ago when we passed the law and now when we change it we listen to it throughout the day of the charge that we are working against the Republic of Croatia, against the Croatian people, that we have given rights to national minorities that they never had, that they will list people who must not do so for various reasons, etc. And now I'm asking you, is it really so that we HDZ are doing this? Is this about our really big mistakes that we have made or are about malicious claims, untrues that are deliberately now and pre-electionally placed to disinformation citizens, for the purpose of false interpretation of the provisions of the law, so that I don't know among the citizens some kind of fear or what I can already imagine in view of these discussions that we listen to and which obviously play some kind of role for our unknown reasons? Did we really do it?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41759	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41760	So I must say that this amendment to the law in Croatian society, and it seems to me that in the Croatian Parliament it has passed with less tension than just passing the law. That's my impression, and I think I'm right about that. In view of the local elections held as a rule, each fifth cycle of local elections corresponds to the census, and the census mainly in parts of Croatia, where there are many members of national minorities often because of the rights that are drawn from the census by members of national minorities can cause divisions in society, fighting etc., etc. Such a situation was during the debate on the fundamental law that we are amending today, but I think that this debate, the vote on this law, the adoption of the law and the subsequent instructions adopted by the State Statistics Office is fully confirmed by the HDZ Club's position not to raise that list to anyone, that this census is not the result of any trade but exclusively of professional approach as proposed by the State Statistics Office without politics and all of that. which followed the debate itself. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41761	Next replica, distinguished representative Branko Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41762	Thank you very much, Vice President. You spoke about the methodology of this list and what all the opposition considers controversial in this list. It should be noted that as much as 80% of the questions and data are prescribed by both the UN and the EU Regulation just so that there may be a comparison of cross-resor international data as high as possible, and only 20% are national issues. However, what is quite controversial with many colleagues, says the concept of the usual place of residence is also prescribed by the 2008 regulation that was also applied in the 2001 and 2011 census.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41763	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41764	Thanks to my colleague Juričev Martinchev, you are right 80% of the data collected on, during the course of the census is normally harmonised, coordinated at the level of other countries with what I think I am now not reading this, but when we have passed the law is being placed in the light of Croatia's membership in the EU, and this can be confirmed later by the secretary of state, the inability of simultaneously listing EU residents in the two countries, where they are and where they are, but clearly this list makes it possible to distinguish or disable a double list of the same persons in the two different countries from, in the one from which it comes and in which it is temporarily located, the inability of a double list, given that a large number of countries are clearly at this time at EU level, and when I am talking about 8,9 countries already, as well as we are pro-longing the dates for implementation, implementation of the list itself. So what we are discussing today is not exclusively our right but it is happening in a number of EU Member States.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41765	Next replica, the esteemed esteemed representative of Nikola Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41766	Thank you, dear Vice President. We are witnessing that in the town of Vukovar, i.e. that citizens and citizens of the city of Vukovar are unfortunately led into one delusion, brought into the creation of certain false and false perceptions, I would even say the uncertainty of all for the purpose of collecting cheap political points because of the upcoming local elections through the release of half-truths, semi-information, incorrect information, primarily about the censuses that only national minorities will list national minorities, that there will be no control mechanisms, that there will be fictional and false addresses, and that there will be lists of people who do not live in the city of Vukovar even though they are aware that 49 institutions have worked, although they are aware that there will be OIBs, there will be criminal and material responsibility, so please comment on this.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41767	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41768	I'd like to thank my colleague, Mazhar. The responsibility for the census of the Vukovar-Srijem County population shall be borne by the chairman of the County List Commission, whose head is the mayor of Vukovar-Srijemski. There are then lists of exposures formed at one or more cities, and the responsibility for the census in the city of Vukovar will also be shared by the mayor there clearly with the coordinator who comes from the National Statistics Office. There are instructors and coordinators. It is one whole system in which it is envisaged and almost impossible to play law and false data that can pass so easily. There are controllers, there are instructors, there are coordinators, and that needs to be disabled. And no one in this country is in the interest of false data getting any rights, especially if you will and when you ask me and we in HDZ want this list to be absolutely accurate and I think this is how this accuracy is made possible. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41769	Next individual debate, distinguished Rada Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41770	Mr. Chairman, state secretaries with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues, when Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Maric explained the bill on the census, households and dwellings in the Republic of Croatia for '21. He pointed out that it was the most comprehensive and complex statistical survey in terms of the number of units covered and the richest source of data on our country's population. I quote data, collected by the list, are necessary for the implementation of various economic, social, demographic, development and other policies and scientific research. Quality planning and research can only be carried out on the basis of current official statistics. All the time today, we're just talking about whether there's a real synergy between the data that we're going to get to be official, and here it seems to me that the greater concern has been about what's going to happen, for example. in Vukovar and how to make a list. It was even offered if we were to have security measures for one, the other or the censusors, and there was less talk about what data democracy would be, something that we should talk about that precisely serves us with this information as stated by Minister Maric as the richest source for all we could expect to see if the census would show that in the 21st century or only the population list is important about what we have, what kind of ethnic group we belong to, and whether someone could profit politically there, and especially before the elections. What would be important to see in such data and in parallel, if we were really in the 21st century, here was the Internet mentioned whether we would know what for example. We have when we list citizens who live in buildings whether these buildings are energy-efficient, so let's maybe go to things that are in the 20th century, whether buildings have access, ramps, access for disabled people, that and if you want to end the building, they also have elevators, so if they have more than 4 floors. What we're going to get and what we're going to do with this data is that we're not buried forever in the interest only when there's a list of whether there's going to be someone who's going to sign up one or 10 people, so I guess there's order and law how it's done and what are sanctions for mislisting and wrong data. If there was not enough time to prepare for a year or if there were no mechanisms to control how censusing is done, unless they might not even be respected for minorities such as the Roma community where it is not disputed to speak another language that they have helpers we will again get different results. The question is what kind of results we want to get, whether the results that will serve to divide in Croatian society, again in Bani and Banovina, this is only illustrative or whether we will be able to see from which direction Croatia will go in the next 10 years, at least until the next list. I hope he does, for example. the list to include pets, here we were talking about, I don't know dogs or which, in some parts I don't know, so I remembered, so we might know how many crocodiles we have in Croatia because the political bar, the bar, is small. Well, I believe that when we finally get data that will synergyly connect with other data, perhaps Croatia will be not only a better place for us but also a place for those who will eventually want to come to us, so on the next census, there will be enough time for Croatian citizenship to crown them, more than less.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41771	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41772	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I don't know if any of you have seen in detail what the existing Census, Households and Apartments Act in the Republic of 2021 looks like. when you look at the article. 14. there is a list of what the data is seen. So, about the population of 30 questions, about households 5, about apartments and other housing units 12. However, experts from the Institute of Migration and Nationality and other demographics believe that the list of questionnaires that must be filled in by our citizens is too widespread. In this series of issues, refugees and asylum seekers, life partnerships will be listed, and there are no questions about the number of property owned by a person, whether children can be used by the Internet or follow-up of online teaching. One question is indeed the number of cattle and poultry, and let's say there are no questions about the amount of income from work or property. During today's debate, as well as on the parent board, questions were raised about the accuracy of the data that will arise after this list despite the strict controls and the indication of the Bureau of Statistics that they will not allow themselves to manipulate the data and that we are constantly talking about the criminal and material responsibility of all those who provide the data. Well, none of us really want to manipulate the data. However, we do not have accurate data or how many people have left the Republic of Croatia, how many are working outside temporarily or permanently, how many are still using health care in the Republic of Croatia. We health care professionals know very well when people who work outside come to us, and then at the weekend they come to our health care facilities because there is a cheaper service with us than on the outside. So the question is now that all this data accuracy can be verified in other bases that exist at EU and other countries. So, I'm sure it'll have to be arranged. In addition to the permanent residents of Croatia, all persons who were present at the reference moment of the census will enter, meaning 31 August 2021 lived in their place of residence for at least a year or came to the place of residence with the intention of staying there for at least a year, so those who left will also count themselves and it is enough to indicate that someone intends to live in Croatia, is treated as a permanent resident, and in fact the question is that someone in that household actually filled out the data for him and it results in that you will not get any fictitious residents. Because the profession also says that even when the list is implemented in ideal conditions, not exactly 3% of citizens are listed. So the question is, if we're changing and supplementing the existing law for epidemiological reasons, why haven't they heard the appeals of the profession and the public to supplement or change certain questions, and to add that now? And a few more words about the population register. The population register is definitely something that's better, cheaper and more efficient than the list. There are other countries with which we have announced the year 2019. And that this list will be the last, so here we hope that the state will do its best not only to support the initiative but to really do everything possible to bring this population registry back to life. Because the fact that the population registry is more comprehensive, more modern and appropriate than the census, is better for governance of the state and for the creation of public policies at national and local level because data is actually constantly updated on students, on students, on employees, on pensioners, on health insurance. The population register, which would thus continuously update population data, would definitely avoid abuse. The fact is that both the EU and Eurostat's recommendation to make all members register by 2022 so we don't really have much time to wait. In any case, we need to think about this epidemiological situation, the fact is that the situation is bad and it's not really smart at this time, and the question is how local elections themselves are going to be held and what kind of pandemic situation is waiting for us, but here we'll see this one, and then we'll probably make decisions to speed up this population registry too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41773	Finally, on behalf of the Proposer, the Honorable State Secretary, Stjepan Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41774	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President, the Honorable MPs and the MPs. Let's briefly refer to the questions raised in the debate. We'll try or I'll try in order. First of all, let me just say in the beginning that today was before us the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the List of Populations, Households and Apartments of the Republic of Croatia in 2021. The amendments and additions containing 6 articles are therefore, in particular, changed in time, provided for a time-limit for the census which is actually taking place from April to autumn, i.e. in two stages from 13 to 26 September and from 27 to 17 October of this year. Reference to the reference point is 31.8. And what is also important with these changes is foreseen by specific circumstances, it is introduced into the notion and the possibility is given to the Government of the Republic of Croatia that for the same reasons why 11 other EU members have delayed this 3 for the following year of the same census. What has been said in the debates about the consultation here is that I have only to say briefly that to respond to the consultations was given by the State Bureau of Statistics as regards the register of populations they did not and were also written in the jurisdiction exactly that, nor can they have the responsibility to conduct and manage the population register, since both Eurostat and international standards show exactly such state statistics institutions as we.../incomprehensible/... the needs of the population register. So, quite simply put, if the State Statistics Institute were to implement and manage the population register, we couldn't.../incomprehensible/... which we would like, which are the meaning of it, that's why they listed themselves in this argument of public consultation. Of course, meetings around the population register are still ongoing and it is likely that in the following years it will be established and this may be the last census of this kind. As for the individuals themselves and the questionnaires had several, here I am now going to read two questions that are listed. The second question is whether your household uses agricultural land either on its own or on the lease of more than 1000 m2 such as nuts, orchards, vineyards and olive groves, and the other one, does your household have at least one lump of large cattle or 10 pieces of poultry or 10 hives of bees? These two questions are methodologically designed to distinguish the rural population from the city. So if any of these are positive we know in what statistical form we're leading it. The issue of the Internet as well as the question that has now been raised by other potentially pets, income, residences, residences are data that are kept in a number of other institutions and are not necessary for this statistical analysis and methodology that is used here, and especially not to be doubled because this is a cross-section on 31.8., we on 31.8. the list of people will receive certain data that will be analysed, and these data are living data that change from day to day and Tax Administration, the MUP and a series of other agencies lead the data as much as anyone has access to the Internet, the fast internet and whatever other services are used. So it's unnecessary to duplicate it, nor could you, with that information in some aggregate form, be able to do anything for a year. So this is the system that's passed and that's more or less I say to Eurostat and all the other European countries, so we're not making up this warm water. As far as the trial list is concerned, it was determined, from 1st to 7th, from 8th to 15th of March of this year directly 5,000 people are listed by 50 censuses, so it was determined according to the announcements and the data obtained will be used to perfect what the system itself is and what the real list will be done. Otherwise, we have both instructors and coordinators and supervisory bodies, so absolutely everything is done in the end line with experience that has already been done before. In the plan, given the financial amounts mentioned above, which I can only mention, the esteemed representative Puljak mentioned, so 174 million 917 thousand kuna was planned in 2011. This year, as I have already said about the costs of the State Statistics Institute, is slightly more than 160 million, 163 million and the State Geodesy Administration 14 is 177 of which this difference is practically at the same level that was planned in 2011, but I mentioned 33.7 million planned to obtain exactly computers or portable computers that will later be donated or forwarded to the Ministry of Science and Education or to school institutions. The new site in this part is among other costs for and the new website of the State Statistics Institute itself, which was also mentioned here. Controls I think with this, of course, what about certain remarks that the list questionnaire itself is too widespread, and on the other hand it doesn't consist, it doesn't contain any data, I'm telling you exactly here about the pet, the dogs, they get different ways and through certain other services, we know the obligation to chip all dogs, so absolute data they have and they're unnecessary. So I think that with this absolutely now covered everything that has proved itself, in the debate itself, thank you to everyone who participated and I hope that you will also support these changes and additions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41775	We have two replicas. The first is the distinguished representative Marijana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41776	Thank you. My dear secretary, I'm going to refer a few parliamentary questions to this subject, but here if you can answer this one now. So I'm still interested in the IT solution of this entire census. You said the costs were increased because laptops were obtained for people who would go on the ground, so are these laptops already purchased and are there how many pieces, at which price, who is the supplier of the laptop, who is the supplier of the app? Is there a possibility that the application should be checked after the censusor has collected the data that has been entered into the system in his name and at the end of the day when you expect the results to be completed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41777	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41778	What I can tell you in my head right now, so all the purchases went through the Central State Public Procurement Office. Purchased in the value of the laptop 33.7 million kuna and all other purchases went, we can give you a more detailed answer in the light of all the many questions you have asked, but that already in the process are already provided with all the means to work.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41779	The next replica, distinguished representative Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41780	My dear secretary. Just to draw your attention, you actually had two questions, a question that was asked by Mr. Rasdic, that was, how many Internet connections do you have. I wrote you why you don't have any information on how many optics on the apartment or on the house that we know how many possibilities there are to connect to the fast Internet. That's not a joke. A few weeks ago, there was a national development strategy here at the debate, and that would be an excellent piece of information if we had a start for some kind of project. Let's go, we're going into the project, and we don't have start data, and that would be great data for you. Why don't we know that? ISP will give us information on how many Internet connections we have, but the optical infrastructure was built by both private entrepreneurs and local self-government and ISPs. So we don't have exactly how many of these connections are currently unfulfilled, which are empty, which can be used later, and that's very important to us because we're going to spend around 25% of the funding of 24 billion.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41781	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41782	Thank you. I can only repeat that what I've already said before, so infrastructure, so when we talk about telecommunications is not the subject of a list of people as far as I know anywhere in the world, it's the subject of collecting data in different ways and through competent agencies that specifically guide and regulate some of the stories about telecommunications, as well as private teleoperators that allow. So I believe that our citizens, most of them, don't even know whether they have the possibility to connect to the optical Internet or not and whether they use it and which Internet they themselves use. So I believe that the data I obtained myself might even be incorrect, given that we are merely guided by a statement of households, what we can verify, what is available to administrative checks and all other data, and here this is the information that should be exact and should be determined by the competent authorities who lead it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41783	Thank you. We've exhausted the debate with this. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Now we're gonna take a break for the ventilation by 19.50 hours. It's 7:39 p.m. We're moving on, please take your seats. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 19:50 A.M.]] The next item of the agenda and the final one tonight is: - Interpletion on the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on how to allocate and make available EU funds under the project "Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem" The submissions are 25 representatives in the HS on the basis of Article. 86. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and in relation to Art. 145. The Rules of Procedure of HS. The provisions of Article 2 shall apply in the event of an interpretation debate. 145th and 151th. Rules of Procedure. The government filed a report. I ask the applicant's representative to further explain the proposals.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41786	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs, respected representatives of the government. I'm very glad to see the Minister of Agriculture here, I don't know if you've made a mistake, maybe the Minister, but I'm glad you're here anyway, so maybe we can tell you some things we didn't get a chance to say in the last debate right now. First of all, I have to say, I'm surprised at the time when we're having this debate. The prime minister has assured us many times that this is something great, that the project "Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem" is something most people will boast about, and here we are discussing in a pornic term, unfortunately, as it is said in a colloquial way. Well, better late than never said. The project "Slavonia" was announced by the ruling ones as a rescue for a demographic and economically devastated region known as Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem, respectively, and the East of Croatia. As a matter of fact, millions of euros are pouring together colleagues and colleagues to the east of Slavonia, but statistics alone mean nothing. Statistics themselves do not guarantee better life, statistics themselves do not create additional value, statistics themselves do not guarantee that people will remain in their villages, cities in the East of Croatia, statistics themselves do not guarantee that the economy is developing that there is a perspective in this region of Croatia, statistics themselves do not guarantee that the life problems of our citizens in the East of Croatia are being solved. Here's just one example that comes to mind like this now that we're discussing. One small beautiful town in the centre of Slavonia, Nasice pays one of the most expensive prices for water in Croatia, in Slavonia with rich water and water resources the most expensive price. Here is what the project Slavonia solved by colleagues and colleagues for citizens and citizens of Našica. I'm going to give you a plastic example of what is actually a project called "Slavonia", it's a PR project of the HDZ government, a PR project that builds Podkin's villages, building towers that no one will be able to use in the end. Namely, a few weeks ago, the mayor of Osijek-Baranja Mr. Anusic announced a reconstruction of the building of the train station in Osijek. Anyone who's seen this building I believe will agree that reconstruction is absolutely necessary, that building collapses practically from Homeland work. At the same time, however, railway lines are lifted, HZ Passenger transport has abolished a whole series of them, I can list them for you now, but it would probably take all the time away from my debate, but let's say one example is line 107 and 103 trains on the route Osijek-Rijeka-Osjek, the only link that this part of Croatia has directly with our sea. So I'm asking you, what's the point of rebuilding that building? That we have a station that will stare empty, on which there will be no trains, no passengers? Is this the project "Slavonia" colleagues and colleagues? According to the logic of the rulings, it's obvious. Obviously these are the villages of Podokin, which Prime Minister Plenkovic will show when he brings his friends from Europe Charles Michel, and I don't know who to say that Croatia is spending its money very effectively here. And what does he spend it on? He spends it on buildings, spends it on infrastructures that ultimately won't have anyone to use. In the same Našice that I mentioned, which has won the prize for the greenest city for years, we have the main square that is reconstructed, the main square was not lacking, but we are building, we are going in to build and dive, without any logic, without any added value, without any added value, not just for people, but for that end. And as if that wasn't enough colleagues and colleagues, there are serious doubts about how the money from the project Slavonia is and where it is left and left. But before I tell you anything about it, I would like to tell you something about the project "Slavonia" said by the vice president of HDZ Mr Ivan Anusic on 10 December 2020. on the 35th session of the Osijek-Baranja County Assembly, I quote: "I would just like to say why I answered the word, I answered because you mentioned that there is no project, that the project "Slavonia" does not exist and that you do not see any benefits. I will not refer too much to the project "Slavonia". The project "Slavonia" is nothing special, I have said it many times already, I have shown my dissatisfaction with the project "Slavonia" because I believe that the project "Slavonia" should be outlined primarily through legal frameworks that will facilitate, allow primarily investment and investors who cannot function more easily and easily and cheaply. This is colleagues and colleagues and dear Croatian public what the vice president of the HDZ thinks of the Slavonia project. And what do we think of Project Slavonia? The implementation of the Slavonia project since the start of the controversy monitoring, primarily because there is no formal decision to launch the project, rules, codes and other specifics that should be followed by such a project, and there is no indication that the tender is under the Slavonia Project, with the exception of, of course, several public calls issued under the implementation of the Development Agreement for Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem, its implementation and monitoring has already been based solely on the headquarters of users and the location of the implementation. In other words, or translated into Croatian, this means that any project financed by European money, which can say that the government has recorded since 2014, means every project implemented by European money in the area of 5 eastern counties of Slavonia and Croatia is counted under the Slavonia and Baranja Project, be careful from 2014. Given the goals of the Slavonia project, which has declared as its goal the availability of European money exclusively for projects in the 5 Slavonian counties, there is no wonder, for example, the discovery of the research journalist of the portal "Telegram" Draga Hedla, who discovered that the HDZ's close tycoon received 7 million kuna from the state project for the rescue of Slavonia in order to restore its hotel on Rab. Indeed, you will agree with colleagues and colleagues very much to praise the project of rebuilding the hotel on Rab to save Slavonia, perhaps because Slavons work there, but not because Slavons stay in Slavonia. Of course, after this has been learned this project has been expressly deleted from the Register of projects funded under this project. Furthermore, the name of the HDZ by Franja Lucic and other HDZ and HDZ close associates in Požega-Slavon County is still mentioned in the context of obtaining large largely grants. You will remember Franjo Lucic, there was our colleague, he was with me and the Vice-President of the Committee on European Affairs, so he says that as part of the project Slavonia, the family of HDZ's Lucic, ministers' father and mayor's son received 17 million kuna. Namely, the company TOFRADO TRAGOVINA from the Pleternica owned by Tomislav Lucić whose heavy activity, as it stands in the court register, trade in large wood, construction materials and sanitary equipment, has received huge money, a total of 14 million and 825 thousand grants. Half of that amount, i.e. 7 million kuna, the company of son Franja Lucic, now already a former longtime HDZ parliamentary representative and former mayor of Pleternica, has been given to reconstruct, modernise and increase the competitiveness of agricultural holdings, and as much money for the care, handling and use of land manure to reduce harmful environmental impacts. A company that had not previously been engaged in any agricultural production but only by trade was granted nearly 15 million kuna. Now, if I were an evil agriculture minister, I'd say that this company might be doing seed work, but I'm not mean, so I won't tell you that. However, the list of allocations to the Lucic family does not fit, so the other son of Lucic, Domagoj, took note of the Slavonia project, received 372,000 kuna, and as it says from the Rural Development Programme in support of young farmers. In addition, Branko Pilaš from the Pleternica also received a fee-free 372,000 kuna in support of investing and launching non-agricultural activities. The father of Branko Pilas is the brother of the wife of Franjo Lucic, Anka Lucic, born Pilaš. Branko Pilaš also received 33,000 kunas for the treatment, handling and use of static fertilisers in order to reduce harmful environmental impacts. Only the Lucic family, therefore, received more than 16 million kuna from the Slavonia Project. I'll also have to bother you further with relations, genealogy and family trees because it's the only way I can tell you how that money is shared. Also the director of the entrepreneurship centre in Pleternica Marija Saric, who came to the post thanks to once-influent parliamentary representative and president of the county HDZ, can you guess who Franjo Lucic has received the 111,000 kuna as a support for the development of small agricultural economies. She, by the way, is a wider member of the Lucic family, sister of Branko Pilasa, you remember, I already mentioned him, the close relative of Lucic's wife, Ankica. I'm your professional historian, otherwise medieval history is your history of large families, so the Valda project and Slavonia history of large HDZ families. Incentives in Požega-Slavon County are received by members of another prominent HDZ family. Namely, Minister Josip Aladrovic's father, I am pleased that there, former Požeško-Slavonski Mayor, Mayor of Pleternica today, the president of the Town Council ofpleternica, Marijan also received 372,000 kunas. Aladrovic is otherwise the owner of a large apple plantation for which he is also given state incentives, and the mentioned amount of HRK 372,000 was given to invest in the launch of non-agricultural activities. And the wider family of Aladrović Vald, modeled by Franjo Lucic, also withdrew money from the Slavonia project, so Matijević, the brother-in-law Marijana Aladrović, now entering the family trees again, received 111,000 kuna. Finally, colleagues and colleagues, Daniel Tomaševic, the son of the current mayor of Požeko-Slavon County, Alojzi Tomasevic, who was recently beaten by his party colleagues, is also on the list. In fact, in support of small agricultural holdings, Tomasevic's son, who usually works as an ambulance driver, while also dealing with the production of jams, also received 111,000 kunas. Here's just one short cut probably not all, in the smallest Slavonia County, in the smallest county that should profit from this project. The second controversy binds to the minister, the former minister, sorry, Tomislav Tolusic's agriculture. Namely, after his discharge from the ministerial post, he founded his OPG, which immediately requested incentives from the state, applied for a tender for... The envelope, which I have run in my own time, where a million and a million euro support can be won. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] A tender for incentives to which he applied is run by a paying agency whose head of agriculture, Matildi Copic, Tomislav Tolusic, was recently appointed and not only because the agency's activity was in the portfolio of his ministry but rather because Tolusic was the chairman of the Administrative Council of the Agency for Payments in Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development. I could probably refer this to you all night, but I'm gonna have to skip a little bit to fit in at the time. Also former Agriculture Minister Tomislav Tolusc, Mario Abramovic withdrew 1.4 million kunas for the port line, and his former associate Mario Tzajkulić nearly 13 million kunas for his OPG, even the son of Assembly representative Steve Culej withdrew 370,000 grants. Also from the project “Slavonia” certain companies came through the indirect route, through local utility companies, and you know who are the heads of the assembly of these local utility companies, ha miraculously precisely HDZ mayors, more precisely what modus operands are, the municipal company withdraws money from the project “Slavonia” for a particular project, there is mostly cleaning and disposal of waste water, then dispels a public tender, and for business somehow always chooses entrepreneurs associated with local authority, not to say with local HDZ that I am bad. I can also give you a concrete example from Požega-Slavon County, you will not believe where the construction company "Presoflex Construction" from Požega is connected to one of the most powerful entrepreneurs of Požeko-Slavon County, Mr. Josip Galic, received a municipal project "Restructions of the wastewater disposal system "Plekernica" worth nearly 135 million kuna. Mr Galić, also his son, is the formal owner of the company and founder and director of at least 15 other local companies dealing with construction, tourism, winemaking, and he owns even local radio stations, and he donated to the party 80,000 kuna only in 2017, and he is a longtime business associate and friend of HDZ's former representative, um you know whom Franje Lucić, former Mayor ofpleernica, where Galić's company is currently working on the business value of 134 million kuna, how we could read from the media. It's interesting how some names keep repeating themselves. It should be pointed out that under the applicable laws so far there was no possibility of a complaint for applicants of capital investment support applications. By its decision of 20 October 2020, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia abolished Article 1 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Article 15(4) In the 67th century, 2 Peter 2: The agricultural law adopted in 2018. on the basis of Art. Paragraph 55. Constitutional law in the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. Why? In the light of the decision, inter alia, it is stated: ‘The Constitutional Court concludes that in the procedures of implementing the agricultural policy measures on the issue of the authorisation of the initiation of an administrative dispute or the use of any other form of judicial protection against the acts brought by the paying agency in the implementation of the measures referred to in Article 1(1). 8. The agricultural law, there is a systematic problem at the legislative level as well as at the level of the court bang before administrative regular courts. Protection against decisions taken by the paying agency in the implementation of the measures referred to in Article 2 8. The agricultural law should be secured either before the court, or before an independent body." It is therefore clear that, due to the inability of the complaint, we can question clear and consistent implementation of support tenders in line with EU standards. But that's no wonder, we could look at it today in the debate in the Seed Act because I'm afraid that the only thing in the interest of this majority is that the more cloudy and the more things we can leave in the gray zone, the more things we can leave in the rules so that then citizens can't really be protected the way they should be and so that the godfathers, sons, neighbors, livers, curtains, comrades and others are profiting from something that should actually improve this whole area, not individuals, and especially members of one party. And before I tell you something final, and I suggest the conclusions actually, I'd like to say that you don't get me wrong, we don't think that the fact that someone was a politician at one point or that he was still, doesn't mean that his family members, relatives, friends can't deal with activities that have to do with the state, local self-government, can't apply to competitions. But you have to admit, colleagues and colleagues, after I've secededed only the smallest Slavonian county, and I believe that to dissipate others would come up with very, very much more information about that, that they must cast doubt on this data all in the way that European money is distributed. It is very interesting and indicative that someone opens up the OPG and immediately gets huge incentives, huge resources, and that, let's just say, someone who decides on it has recently been subordinated to that person. It is very significant that the closer and wider family, neighborhood, etc. a certain man who was a high-ranking party official gets so much generous support, and as a rule, he and his fellow Members, so they got that money on a gift. Therefore, as applicants of this interpretation, we consider our duty to initiate this procedure for two reasons. First, because there are reasonable doubts about the impartial and measuring allocation of public European money, it is necessary to carry out an audit of the allocation of the same and second ones, in order to ensure that, in the future, the allocation of public European money is transparent and, without a doubt, the impartiality and metricity need parliamentary oversight of the same. We think that a lot of these cases that I have just cited would not have happened that Parliament can oversee these processes, that we are involved, that it is a transparent process, because colleagues and colleagues if you look at official data, so available publicly on the pages of the ministries that are responsible for it and other state institutions, all of this information, all of this information, you will find on them, not criteria, but you will find, therefore, all that money as the media has written, has been allocated to these people in these amounts. Therefore, we believe that there are reasonable doubts that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, or the RES and the agencies, are not acting on the principle of measurement in the event of the grant of grants under the "Project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem" and for this reason, and we have proposed to you the conclusions that you have received in the materials and we believe that this is very healthy and debate in front of the Croatian and interested public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41787	The debate has many replicas, the first representative of Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41788	Thank you very much. ... The project, Slavonia is basically a PR project. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Its effects are exclusively PR-ovski and that is visible, but here it was a problem for me what such a project was announced by Prime Minister A. Plenkovic and Zagora, G. Kotar and Liku. So he would ask that such a project as it is in Slavonia would not bring us, for so far, we have been destroyed and emptied. So here I would just once again remind myself of these numerous projects, e.g., we expect 3 years in Dalmatia promised, in Split, vertical towards Dalmatia Zagora, a merger on the highway, colleague Hajdukovic, from that to now 2 billion kn projects are promised to be, so far zero, the only one project is from Vučevica to the non-existent tunnel and there, knows this fellow Sanader, there are his drills, 40 million kn, four-track road, nothing cetin end, the property end, the top end, that's zero.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41789	Thank you very much, Comrade Bull. I would like to talk about the benefits of the Slavonia project instead of such a questionable award of money and the results of this project, so that we have the Dalmatian Zagora project, that we have the project Lika, that we have the project I don't know, some other neighborhoods that should be particularly encouraged. But unfortunately, we can't do that, and even if there was a project, say, the Dalmatian Zagora, I believe that we would find each other very quickly and argue in the same tone. Is this a project that really gives results, is it because of this project people stay in their homes, in their cities, in municipalities, in villages, is it because of this project people live better, is it because of this project being solved by people's life problems, is this why the project brings young people back to those parts, as well as citizens who went after bread? Unfortunately, the answer to all these questions is no.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41790	Next replica, the esteemed representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41791	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Hajduković, I will be free to pull the parallel between the Slavonia project and the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, because in both cases, the same thing is happening, and that money is not invested in the recovery and revitalisation of Slavonia by hand and cap as you described in your initial investment, investing in some public infrastructure projects of questionable profitability and what is worst, usability. So I ask you to answer me, is the project Slavonia capable of doing anything to help develop the area from which you come or is it like Mayor Anusic said, one big nothing, or what is even the worst of all, is the project Slavonia just an ATM machine from which HDZ and their loved ones draw money from which they have no right? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41792	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41793	Thank you very much, fellow coat of arms. This is the first time, one of the few times that I will agree with my mayor Anusic, absolutely when he says the project is Slavonia nothing. It's nothing special. Anyway, it's a PR project. So I'm reading it from his words. Will this project help the end I come from? It won't, not like this. Not so conceived and so spent. I've given you an example of the train station in Osijek, I can give you hundreds of such examples. In one village because it's a renovated social home or a football club locker room, which are great projects, but no one's staying, no one's coming. Move in. No businessman is going to start a business. No farmer will be able to establish an OPG for that. So the question, the eternal question, is, what is the added value of these projects? Does the local community benefit so much, develop, create a new store of places that we can talk about the recovery of the end? The answer to that is no.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41794	The next replica, the esteemed representative Vesna Vucilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41795	Dear colleague Hajdukovic, I live in Nasice, I pay for this expensive water, we are already used to it, as soon as the agglomeration is over, the water collects, we no longer pay attention. You've set an example of a small park, we've got two parks, one big, one small, and there's really nothing missing from the little park, it's been nice before, now it's gonna be even nicer, so basically, every investment needs to be supported and commended, but it's not the weirdest, you know, investment. We have around us in Lower Motičina, for example, shortly after the parliamentary elections, the chief moved to HDZ and shortly after that they got no less than a million and 200,000 kn for the project of turning more meters into a heating tree. Or in a wood-slicing translation. Here, I think it's kind of a capital project that's really going to enrich that environment. He's probably on the list of Slavoni projects, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41796	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41797	Thank you very much. I'm sure we're looking at the project list, so he can get there too. Because as you say, it's an unmistakable added value to that end. And I'm actually saddened that by coming in from our neighborhood, which I know very well and which is beautiful, that people in water so rich in water, pay for the most expensive water. As many lakes as the pond has around Nash, I just can't figure out that logic. But here I can list thousands of projects that are in the ranks of this, in the ranks they don't believe, or yes, here in that rank because I don't know what that added value is for that neighborhood, I don't know what that added value is for these citizens. Short-term, maybe, maybe for next month, maybe for the next six months. But again the question, will someone come back, will they stay in, say, Lower Mottice for that, will some new company open up? The answer is unfortunately defeating, no.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41798	The next replica, the distinguished representative Goran Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41799	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Representative Hajdukovic. I thought you'd be superior, that you'd be the best among us, and what you put out as a man who represents this interpretation in fact that it's not Darling... you wouldn't have anything to talk about here. So I'm going to ask you a question that you need to give me a concrete answer to. On how many tips for Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem have you been from 11, tell me with a number and a letter of what?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41800	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41801	My colleague Ivanovic, and what can I say to you and you are a person who is serious about such matters as the Seed Act you start with the Viennas, is that a serious approach to work? It may be your habitat, I don't feel like laughing when I talk about the collapse of our agricultural producers, I don't feel like laughing when it comes to the collapse of this neighborhood. And I'm going to tell you how much advice I've been on, at zero because I don't want to be, I don't want to be an extra on your PR projects. If it were a project that I think leaves added value in our neighborhood, I would be at everyone's side, I would applaud that Plenkovic and you who bring it to our end. But what are you bringing? You build railway stations that will stare empty, you build city squares that will stare empty, you build children's playgrounds where there will be no children. Well, colleagues and colleagues, and who's crazy about that? Here's a rhetorical question for you, directly to all who defend this government position, who's crazy here? Do I think somehow this side of the assembly isn't?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41802	Next replica, distinguished representative Marko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41803	Dear Vice President, dear colleague. You said you were a historian, but you didn't master the history of eu funds. For the sake of the SDP government and the poor programming of Milanovic's government, we do not have such a situation, and Mayor Anusic complained about it. We're going to fix it now in a new period and that's exactly what we're going to do. We're proud of the project "Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem" and we don't let you throw this mud at it, we don't let you throw 21,000 projects at 17,5 billion kunas paid, contracted, on more than 3.5 women working in the Desire programme, on over 20,000 older users who have it, and we'll defend it by this interpretation. That's not what we say. That's what the European Commission says. And you're inextricable, in conclusion, you tell the State Audit, so you know we have the Agency for Revision of Program Contracts, so the bad historian eu funds, congratulations, you know the European jobs well, but get away from the eu funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41804	We have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure. The first is the distinguished representative of Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41805	Injury. 238. This can't be listened to. There is no "Slavonia" project, which is one of the tables that you so called in which you place people in regular competitions. No Slavonac, no Slavonka have any special conditions on applications for competition. Don't lie to people, enough of your lying. No matter what it is, Djakic, are you yourself.../The speaker turned off./...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41806	Time. Mr. Grmoya, you know this wasn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure, but your replica, I give you a warning. The next violation of the Rules of Procedure, distinguished representative Marko Pavić, pardon Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41807	Thank you very much, Your Honor. A colleague of Pavić, minister of perfume and expensive drinks, has injured an article here. The 238th is the only thing that speaks as if he were the minister of a series of lies. The same thing he says about Slavonia spoke for my Dalmatian Zagora and Sinja promised 150 million kuna. How much did we get? Zero. You'll be the same story again two months before the election, but you won't get past that one of yours. This is the project of the destruction of Slavonia, the empty Slavonia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41808	Time. This was your replica, not the violation of the Rules of Procedure, and you get a warning. The following injury is representative Marko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41809	He's been injured. 238nd colleague Grmoy is insulting and false. If the European Commission says there is a project "Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem", if it recommends it to other members as a quality and good project and states that just because the prime minister is leading the advice that this is good, then you certainly know better, you are a better expert. And don't worry, Mr. Bulj will be a development deal for Dalmatia, there will be enough money for mine and your Dalmatian Zagora, don't worry about it. [[Intruder Bull: Which year, you're not a river.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41810	Injury of the Rules of Procedure of Nicola Grmo.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41811	Injury. 238, again, my colleague Pavić deceives the public. Here I solemnly promise if you show me the operational program announced by Tolusic, Žalac, Pavić for Slavonia and Baranja I am leaving this debate. If you show me the operational program you promised, I'm leaving, I won't show up here. I'm going home, I'm going to see Croatia, and I'm not going to show up. You have nothing to show me if there's nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41812	You're probably planning on going home to watch TV, so you have another warning because this wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Replication response, pardon, violation of the Rules of Procedure, representative Vesna Vucilović.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41813	Thank you very much. A fellow Pavić was injured by an officer. 238, which means if the European Commission says something exists then, but counterpart Pavic is also told that the vaccine is distributed evenly to all members, and we see that it is not true, do not deceive the Croatian public.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41814	You also used this as a replica, so you get a warning. Next breach of the Rules of Procedure, I don't see who it is, Marko Pavić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41815	He's been injured. 238, here's my colleague Vucilović, you're a doctor of science, but you don't know the EU funds. Here is the interpolation of EU funds. If anyone knows and confirms that a project exists, it is the European Commission, they oversee and manage EU funds. There are 4 levels of EU funds supervision. Here you have drawn 5 projects out of 21 thousand from 2016 and 2017 that something here was a problematic ARPA revision of the European Commission and the European Court of Auditors would have found nothing, you found nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41816	You used this injury as training, and you can't, and then you have another warning. Here's the answer to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41817	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Pavić, you know how much I highly appreciate you, you have very great experience and knowledge, I will dare say that I know something about it, because the EU is engaged in 15 years, which is professionally, which is scientific, which is political, but then I would ask you something else. So, you were talking about the laudas in this project, but you did talk to your party vice president Mr. Anusic about this, did you? Because here I'm going to quote it again, December 10th said it last year. The Slavonia project is nothing special. I've said it many times. I've often expressed my dissatisfaction with the Slavonia Project and now not to quote further if my time will fade away. I wish you had specifically said why HDZ's or SDP's authority is guilty, so I could answer you specifically, this is the only way I can give you a flat-rate answer that, perhaps, you should consult with the vice president of the party.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41818	The next replica, distinguished representative Marin Mandaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41819	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Representative Hajdukovic, I don't understand how you can just come out and say the Slavonia Project doesn't exist, it's something that doesn't matter. Here I will say on the example of the area of the city of Djakova, 118 users who received funding from the Agriculture and Rural Development Programme spent projects worth more than 170 million kuna certainly know what the Slavonia Project is and what its benefits are. What you don't understand is less important to me. I also looked at a list of who these users really are, I know them all, I personally know them all, a squad of valuable, honest and honest people who deserve to be supported in the form of EU funds. And I would just ask you what you are specifically whether political, whether you personally did in the development of Slavonia, the development of five of our Slavonian counties except that in the assembly here and there you rise up and then you talk as you do tonight. What did you personally do?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41820	The answer of the respected representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41821	My dear fellow mayor, I was just quoting the vice president of the party, and I'm going to quote it again. The Slavonia project is nothing special. I've said it many times. I've often expressed my dissatisfaction with the Slavonia Project. So I quote your vice president of the party, the president of the county organization. Ask him what he meant, not me. On the other hand, my colleagues, which I specifically did, and what you have specifically done, you are from the executive authority. Well, we don't need the Slavonia Project to solve any problems, so we have the Mimosa building in Djakova that's been staring empty for years, the space that's going down, and on the other hand the state institutions are renting space in the middle of Djakov. So you tell me how much you are as mayor to put this space into operation you could save that same Croatian state that we are then investing in some kind of children's playground projects for children who don't exist all over our beautiful country?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41822	The next replica of the esteemed representative of the Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41823	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear counterpart Hajdukovic, I must say that as Slavonci, I am truly pleased to see tonight's interpretation and that we can discuss the facts that we want about facts. And the fact is, if we look only at the last SDP government in 2012-2016, that when she took care of Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem she put in the same NUTS-2 region in continental Croatia as the capital, she directly stole, stole all the owners 25% of the support they could achieve. That's where the millions were stolen. And let us take the end of the mandate of the SDP government, only the city of Vukovar, December 2016, employed 9.057 persons, December 2020, so covid years, in Vukovar employed 10,234 persons. So, employed 1,177 people more now than at the end of the SDP government's mandate. It is like 50,000 more employees in Zagreb, the HDZ relationship:SDP Slavonia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41824	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41825	Thank you very much, colleague Mažur, if you're pleased, I'd be more pleased to discuss this. And the same is true of the facts, so perhaps you could follow the advice your party colleague Pavic and former European fund minister gave me because you obviously don't have much history. And here I'll remind you if you don't know or haven't been explained that the division into two statistical regions that you listed or NUTS-2 was the only possible at that time. The only one the European Commission wanted to accept despite its insistence, despite the insistence of its colleagues, is that at least Zagreb should be singled out as a special statistical unit. So it's very interesting how all the problem of the Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem project can be brought to your attention to one decision from that period, and there are not many bad decisions in the period from 23rd. The Croatian-run HDZ, during which Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem collapsed with a miracle.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41826	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Shashin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41827	Dear colleague Hajdukovic, I simply do not know how to find another expression for this exhibit of yours but rather the simple behaviour of a desperate man who simply instead of supporting and that he is along with most parliamentary representatives who come from Slavonia, Baranja and Srijema and that he is struggling to improve in that space he is trying to blacken all that good that has been done back a few years there. My particular question for you, did you recently walk the city or to a new bridge across the Drava River, Mosta III. Guard brigades to see what a beautiful bridge looks like and see how well the work on corridor 5C flows through Baranja? On the corridor, or on the highway that you, or your government, redesigned on a fast road and if it were your way, we could ride there today by bicycles and tractors. However, the government of A. Plenkovic has redesigned it, returned it to a full profile, and today it is building it with its dynamics.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41828	Thank you. Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41829	Thank you, Comrade Shashin. Here's what I want to ask you. How many people are left in the municipality... for the "Project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem"? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I can tell you with great certainty zero. On the other hand, we on this side of the assembly, unlike you, are not afraid to support something that we think is good, and you've often heard me praise some things that I think are good. On this side of the assembly, when we were the government and you were the opposition, I never heard of it. But never. If we said it was white, you'd say it was black, just because we said it was white. It's not responsible behavior, pal. And I often took a walk in my city where I live, in which I have seen every week, and I have also seen the merger of the promenade now taken by Mayor Anusic, a project that was started for our authorities, let's say that I remember the northern collector, so let's say the southern lane of the southern bypass that J. Kosor has opened three times, etc. Here, I remember that too.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41830	Thank you. The next replica of the respected representative Simic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41831	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Kolega Hajduković, well here you are often a guest in one of the most beautiful and one of the most developed small towns of the continental Republic and here, we come from this very city, twice on two occasions and on several occasions mentioning projects in the town of Našice, it is the projects that are among the largest in the history of Našica Station, but also the budget of the Republic of Croatia, the water line, the agglomeration is mentioned, and the project of 166 million kuna will enable all citizens of the narrow part of the town of Našica, all 15 suburban settlements, but of course also in the municipalities of Donja Motičina, Podgorica, Fericans, to supply drinking water to all inhabitants right there. The central square is arranged, he is also in the project of the arrangement of the Pejačević castles which is worth 100 million kuna... [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41832	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41833	Thank you very much, fellow Shimic. Well, I've got to fix you. I'm not a guest in Nazice. I'm at Nazice's house, I think I'm already there, I don't live, but it's like I live. But I must tell you that Nashice is one of the most developed small towns in Croatia, not because of the merit of local authorities, but because of the fact that a large and responsible company refuses to move to Zagreb and wants to be in Nasice. I'm not gonna say the name of the company right now so I don't advertise them, but that's a fact, buddy. City government didn't do anything. Absolutely nothing, and then I ask you, here's this big project to rebuild Pejačević Castle, I'm a historian, I love history, except for the preservation of cultural heritage, what are we going to use it for? If we're gonna use it to try the kuds, then we didn't do anything. Don't get me wrong, I support the work of CUDs, however, they guard our heritage but you don't use such a pearl as a warehouse and as a hall for tests of CUDs.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41834	Thank you. The next replica, the esteemed representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41835	Dear fellow, first of all allow me to thank you for my personal name and then also on behalf of the Club of the Foreign Centre and the Party of the Voice at the launch of this impelation, you have really made all the information clear and clear, the public has the right to hear that the project of Slavonia does not exist. And if Slavonia continues to be ruled by HDZ, there will soon be no Slavonia. Of all our ends, Slavonia is now the most empty and the most dying, and that is to you, Mr Pavić, the best indicator whether this project exists or not, not what the European Commission says. While you are already calling on the European Commission, so listen and what it says about the state of corruption in the Republic of Croatia, it would be useful to hear and it is saddened that a research journalist has made more for Slavonia, who pointed out all the political benefits and malfeasances than all the state bodies. who allegedly participate in the implementation of non-existent projects. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41836	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. We have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure, the first respected representative of Ivanovic, in what way has the Rules of Procedure been injured?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41837	Dear Vice President. He's hurt, of course, Art. In 238, the distinguished representative Oreskovic insulted all the honorable and honest mayors, the mayors of whom one good part and number are not at all in HDZ, nor are HDZ's chiefs but rather they worry and fight for this Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem as opposed to her, which probably in Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem had not been for a long time.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41838	Thank you. Of course, you know it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so I have to give you a heads-up. The violation of the Rules of Procedure was also raised by a respected representative of Sashlin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41839	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, an officer has been injured. 238, too, because she's Mrs. Oreshkovic deceives all of us, or all of this makes no sense. If there is no project of Slavonia, Baranja and Sreem, then what are we talking about? I really don't know, do I? If you claim that this project is gone, that there is no project, then why? Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41840	Thank you very much. And you know that cheating isn't even a violation of the Rules of Procedure, so you get a warning. The next replica is honouring Radic And I'm sorry, the answer of Honorable Representative Hajdukovic. [[Intruder Hajdukovic: Answer, Answer.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41841	Thank you very much, Your Honor. My colleague Oreshković, I am very pleased to receive such a lauda of the first women's club in the Croatian Parliament, but also, thank God for the investigative journalism, I never thought I'd say it, but thank God for Zdravko Mamić. Because apparently now some things in court in Osijek will also be disintegrated. And maybe I should tell you if obviously some of you haven't figured out what this interpretation is so I don't quote the vice president of the HDZ again because it's really already becoming degutant as much as I can't hear things, but haven't you heard that your party's former officials are being poured into huge money, their neighbors, their friends, acquaintances, passers-by-houses, livers, grandmothers, children, I don't know who anymore. If that's not enough reason to interpret and doubt that there's an unmeasured distribution of money here, if that's not the reason, and then what is, I guess Godzilla comes and takes the money away then he would be.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41842	Thank you. Dear Representative Radic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41843	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Hajdukovic, you told the PR project I would disagree with you, and I will list only a few projects in our area of Osijek. It's the new Clinical Hospital Centre of Osijek worth 2 billion kuna, which is gravitated by 900,000 patients, and I think we both agree it's a good project and it needs the city. I will also mention a new dormitory in Osijek 174 million kuna Osijek as a student town of 796 beds. The reconstruction and reconstruction of the Osijek airport worth 395 million kuna. You could have done all that while she was in power of the SDP government, you didn't do it. And you know what you did as my colleague Shaslin said you redesigned corridor 5C on the fast road thanks to this government and mayor Anusic's efforts. Thank God Corridor 5C will be the highway and thus we have corrected one great injustice that you have done to Slavonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41844	Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41845	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Radic, have you heard of Anta Sanader, pardon Ivo Sanader, not Anta, I apologize to my colleagues, have you heard? So you know Ivo left a couple of skeletons in the closet you won't trust the SDP government, couple. Now I can list for you some FIMI media, some tunnel painting, painting of Croatian voters, I could tell you, but I'm not like that, I'll concentrate on the future. And that there are a lot of projects that are good, but I'm also asking you a question, if we don't have added value, if we don't have something that will keep those young people in Osijek, we can build billions of dorms, if people won't be able to use it. Here's what I don't know if you knew the data say that over the past 20 years two SDP governments of two mandates of discontinuity have achieved a cumulative GDP growth of almost 25%. Croatian governments, the HDZ government's pardons in the same period only achieved a little more than 12%... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41846	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Hajdukovic, we have one violation of the Rules of Procedure. Dear Representative Mandaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41847	Thank you, Vice President. Injured Article 238, Mr. Hajdukovic remembers a little bit, but he doesn't remember well, so if I ask if he remembers Mr. Tihomir Jakovina who left the skeleton in the closet after his closet after his term. What's left in Slavonia after him? The SDP was not most of the time in power in the Republic of Croatia, but who in the end were the four years when the EU funds were programmed, and now we still try it after you today. Here, thank you, do you remember that?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41848	Of course, remembering or feeling is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, so you get a warning too. The violation of the Rules of Procedure was also raised by a respected Greek representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41849	So Mr. Mandaric injured Rules of Procedure 238, speaking false. Namely, mentioning the SDP governments was one that was six years ago and one that was 15-16 years ago really doesn't make sense anymore. You have changed 4 ministers in 4 years at the head of the Ministry of Regional Development, with 40% of EU funds absorption. Come on, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41850	Thank you very much. Of course, neither this nor that is an injury.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41851	Don't mention us anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41852	A fellow Greek, and that's not even a violation of the Rules of Procedure, and you get a warning. And now I'm asking you all nicely, on the left, on the right, on the middle, on the ceiling, on the floor wherever you want, now it's almost 9 o'clock we're gonna stay here for a couple of hours, let's not beat that time in vain with some pseudo-injurious Rules of Procedure that aren't and that you all know they're not. That doesn't make sense. Either there's going to be some kind of normal discussion or those 2.5 people who are looking at us by accident right now, and they're not watching a game like this, and they're going to turn off their TVs because they're going to think it doesn't make sense to watch it. The next replica is the respected representative Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41853	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Minister Hajdukovic, you know that I have special respect for you as a fellow representative from the same 4th Slavonian electoral unit, but with all due respect, I can't help but think that you are being offended because you are not satisfied with the Slavonia project and therefore you declare that you were not at any of the 11 meetings of the Council for Slavonia and Baranja. I will not, of course, enter into the cause of your lack, disease, wounding, no idea, but what is not good and what is devastating and embarrassing for a Slavonic not to come to meetings of counsel. And that's why I'm asking you to answer my question specifically. Have you made any concrete proposals to improve the situation in Slavonia, have you proposed any concrete project, have you helped solve any particular problem or project For the sake of the people of Slavier and Baranja. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41854	Thank you. Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41855	Thank you very much, colleague Bedekovic, you know that I respect you very much, and I kiss my fellow Djakic who throws it away all the time. I have to tell you, so I've already explained, just love, so just love, please, I've already explained why I haven't been to counsel sessions before. Because I don't want to be someone's party propaganda cult, and I won't be. Here for this speaker and here in the Croatian Parliament I commended every move of your government, your prime minister, your ministers and ministers I thought were good. And unlike most of whom, I remember again when our government was while you were in opposition unlike you who didn't want a report from the attorney general, be careful what it has to do with the ruling one, they're usually critical of the government. I supported along with my colleagues and colleagues every project, every law I thought was good. Look at how many amendments I've put on the budget for that same Slavonia, none of which have passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41856	Thank you. The next replica of the respected representative Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41857	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Hajdukovic, since you weren't of course informed about what was going on in Slavonia with the project "Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem", you would surely have heard on this advice about what we agreed, what we had agreed and what we had spent. In Virovitica-Podravska County alone, over 2 billion kuna is a project for small OPG 900 million kunas, divided and paid into 86%, for irrigation systems of 4 irrigation systems 250 million kunas, for castles in Virovitica, Kapela Dvor and Suhopolje 150 million kunas, for the siren in Virovitica 40 million, for the daily hospital 50 million, for the entrepreneurial incubator in Slatina, Pitomacica and Rakovica 30 million, the Virovitica technological innovation centre 18 million, hala... 15 million. Tell me, is it demagogy or is it reality? Or come to Virovitica I will take you, show you everything and one project that has been completed.../The speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41858	Thank you, thank you, colleague Djakic. Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41859	Thank you very much. Comrade Djakic, I may not be coming to meetings, but I read it from your party president, so let's say in Nasice when the meeting of the 5th October 2020 Council was held. The prime minister presented data that the project "Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem" has so far agreed on 16.53 billion kuna and 88% total alocation, and 6.6 billion were paid. Now you see that's an exact piece of information, which the Prime Minister said at the time. Now, it is interesting to note on the official web site that 63.78 was agreed, not 88% or slightly more than 11 billion kuna in targeted grants, and it was wronged at 11:15 p.m. Well, I'm asking you, I'm coming here to listen to lies, and I don't think of any delusions.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41860	The next replica of the respected representative of Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41861	Thank you. Comrade Hajdukovic, here we are witnessing a political stakeout that was made and which suddenly put this on the agenda. Here you are told that you have brought only the text of Draga Hedla from the arguments, which is what your colleague Ivanovic has said. Tell me please, which other institution of investigation or reconnaissance in Slavonia today acts other than Draga Hedl, excuse you in Virovitica it is Ivica Kirin who personally investigates 17 million and he is very angry instead of resigning after two years and has discovered that it is a casino, he himself. And the Prime Minister found nothing. I'm curious to know what you think Hedl was doing in other counties besides Požega-Slavonska, you gave examples of Virovitica-Podravska and Osijek-Baranja County, and does this have anything to do with the fear of leaving the Supreme Judge of Sesa?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41862	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41863	It doesn't matter, of course, my colleague Matula, so you heard the Prime Minister, with us, the judiciary is independent, transparent, fair, as we can see in Osijek these days, etc., etc. Now that we're talking, once again I have to say thank God for the investigative press, I've checked all the data, and not all of it has been written by my colleague Hedl, there are others who wrote it, but everything is verifiable in official data on web sites and other data portals. Who's supposed to be doing the investigation? Well, in this case, a colleague of the DORH, the inspectorate, the police. Why aren't they working? I don't know. Why doesn't the DORH act on some memory sticks as they say they get from Bosnia? I don't know. But am I responsible or are we? We are if we keep our mouths shut.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41864	The next replica of the respected MP Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41865	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Representative Hajdukovic. Since we have known each other for many years and have visited places in Slavonia on several occasions as party colleagues, we have also visited Voćin Municipality in Virovitica-Podravska County. It is a municipality with an average age of 32 years, the demographic youngest Croatian municipality surrounded by unpolluted nature and forests. An ideal area for organic agriculture and rural tourism, some highly developed area that lived from wood processing. But instead of the abundance of the people of Voćin, they live in poverty and are now known as one of the poorest and most isolated municipalities in Croatia. There is no T left from the factory, and the country's concern towards this region is best reflected in the isolation and forgetfulness of this area, which has drawn huge money from the project "Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem". The wicked would say that it was the end where God said good night, but I would say that it was the end where the government said good night and left it to a light death.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41866	Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41867	Thank you very much, colleague Nikolic. You're right when you say, everything you said about Voćin Municipality I sign and it's not the only municipality we can discuss in such frameworks, a whole series of municipalities can list in the area here's just our Osijek-Baranja County. The fruit is in Virovitica-Podravska. And yes, I would agree with your finding that the government there said good night, but the government didn't say good night only to that municipality, the government said good night to all of Croatia, and that's clearly what I'm trying to figure out, exactly what I'm trying to say and I don't know, break my ears to my colleagues on this side because they obviously don't listen. Ha and I think the vice president himself tells them that the project "Slavonia" is nothing, nothing important and that it is very critical in that. So if he's critical that he's the vice president of the party, who was elected in HS, he acts as mayor, so how come I'm not critical that he should be more critical as a member of the opposition.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41868	Thank you. We have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure. He is the first respected representative of Djakic. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41869	Thank you very much. He's been injured. 238. A colleague calls the county residents who have no idea, with whom she has never spoken a word, nor did any step of good work, she has not seen a social home, or kindergarten, or a sports hall new, all of which you have forgotten to look at and see what has been done and done. It's not a plumbing, it's not a sewer, it's not... that are being built. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41870	Thank you, colleague Djakic. Whether anyone has any idea or doesn't know anything is not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. If it were a breach of the Rules of Procedure, we wouldn't be sitting here at all. Well, that's what you get a warning from. ... Please don't run the session. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] The following who says "remembrance" will receive 3 warnings immediately. Here you go. The next violation of the Rules of Procedure is the respected representative Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41871	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Vice President, I believe the Rules of Procedure have been injured, sir. 238. First of all, I cannot allow my colleague to insult the parliamentary representatives sitting in these benches and coming from the premises of Virovitica County, and not just the residents of the Voćin municipality. With numerous projects listed here, I will only remind myself that the candidate for the mayor of SDP in Virovitica-Podravska County who is also a member of the county assembly has not proposed any concrete proposal, no concrete project for the development of Voćin and a complete county.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41872	Thank you very much. My colleague Bedeković, who suggested or did not propose the project is not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so you get a warning. This respected representative Nikolic also has a violation of the Rules of Procedure, what has the Rules of Procedure been injured in?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41873	He's been injured. 238. Representative Djakic, the truth is, I've never seen kindergarten because kindergarten exists, but it never opened its doors because it doesn't work, e.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41874	Well, of course you know that opening or not opening kindergarten doors is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, so you get a warning too. We can still play kindergarten here all together if you want. The next violation of the Rules of Procedure is the respected representative of Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41875	The Honorable Vice President has been injured. In 238, therefore, where the truth has been told that Voćino was "good night", I would ask my colleague to ask the official data from the Central State Office for Reconstruction and Residential Care as much as the Government of the Republic of Croatia assigned construction material to the young families in Voćin to build houses and how much it was given through tenders to the Municipality of Voćin for municipal and social infrastructure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41876	Thank you. My colleague Mazhar and you know that telling the lie isn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure, so you get a warning. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41877	Here's a respected colleague of Hajdukovic, I am still waiting for the ruling, that the minister, here is former Minister Pavic, who promised an operational programme for Slavonia and Baranja to say where the operational programme is located. What special conditions and benefits do Slavons and people from Slavonia have when applying for the competition? They don't have any, they don't have any. The Slavonia project is one table in which projects would be implemented anyway. And the fact that they're about to tell you that you didn't show up, and if you wanted to be some kind of tower for these Podokin villages that they sell to people who live in Slavonia then, then I'd be surprised what kind of opposition you are when you agree to such fraud. It's just a hoax. Croatia has started to play, I'm going to see this guy how Vrsaljko got on, he's back on the team, and I'm waiting for someone to tell me where the operational program is.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41878	I don't care if you follow sports or if you don't follow sports or if you don't follow anyone here. Here's the esteemed representative, Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41879	Thank you. My fellow Bolshoi, then, during your likeness, would my question be to you, would you go to such counsel? Here's what the Prime Minister says, it's one piece of information, and it's being denied by his own ministry. I would also like to see these operational projects, I would also like to see what this project of Slavonia actually means. Because there are, in that list, projects from 2015 are still in place, so where the HDZ government wasn't even in the bandages, only at the end of the year did it come. So it's just a list of what's going on, so we can do the Zagora Project and the Islands Project and the project, and I don't know whatever it is that's already been comforting. What benefits do they have? Nothing. And what's the added value? So that's what I've explained, we're rebuilding stations from which no trains will be available, we're rebuilding kindergartens and schools that won't have anyone to attend, we're rebuilding playgrounds where there won't be any children.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41880	The next replica of the esteemed representative, Grman Kizivat.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41881	Thank you, Vice President. When I say a county that doesn't have a kilometer of fast road, when I say that a county that doesn't have a kilometer of highway, the nearest highway is about 100 kilometers away, when I say the county that is the appendix of Croatia, when I say that the county that was an example in the National Development Strategy is the poorest county, the smallest GDP per capita, when I say that successfully this year is closed and one sugarcan, do you know which county I'm talking about if we take into account that HDZ in that county is safe on the 25th, do you know what county I'm talking about and what you think is responsible for this situation in that county? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41882	Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41883	My colleague, you say there are no miles of highways, no miles of fast road, no appendix, no candy closed, in Osijek-Baranja County where I come from is a closed sugar shop but there's highways, there's some way and there's fast roads. Um, isn't it Virovitica-podravska? And you know who's there in power? [[I've got a bogeyman from the bench: Bravo.]] Um, HDZ. And you know who comes from there too? Here's some colleagues from here who foam so much that they've made so much for that county, um. And did they say the words when the sugars were closing? Imagine no, but they were at all the meetings of the council And you know colleagues and colleagues who are then responsible for this condition? [[Clip bumps: hmmmm]] It's your fault, it's my fault, it's my colleague, it's my friend, it's Matula's fault, it's my colleague's fault. We're guilty you know and being there HDZ from the beginning of the world is your fault.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41884	The next is the replica of the respected representative Blažević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41885	Thank you, Vice President. I really don't know, from all this stuff I heard about where to start and it's a little minute. I wonder how many of you are from Slavonia? One four, five. No, you were asked twice what you personally did for Slavonia, you commended, supported projects. What's that? What you've done interests me. Still speaking, I'm from Pakrac. There was a Homeland War in Pacrac and Lipik. Billions and billions of damages. Never before four years ago about our cities specifically my city has been driven by a concern like so far. Last year alone, we spent the projects for about 120 million kuna. Furthermore, when we were hoping to get into small-town projects, you remember what happened with Pacrac and Lipik that we couldn't go. Thank you for not having us, because then we would only have 150 million kuna available, and in one year we now spend so many projects. You guys were still talking... [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41886	Thank you, colleague. Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41887	Thank you very much, colleague. How many of you are on this side of Slavonia and what will you say to those same Slavs and Slavs when you return to Slavonia? That you were here defending the fog. I think we understand each other. I'm ready to support everything that's good. And I've always been from this pay phone. I also need to draw your attention to one fact. A dedicated project, or I think you thought it was arranged and paid off, wasn't the same thing. Because if you gave something up, that's not how you got that money. And you know when you'll get that money? When the review of the project goes through. And will the project review pass? Well, I don't know because there's pals, sons, godfathers, and I don't know who anymore. And that's what I'm talking about. Well, we're not here against Slavonia's development. Well, we're also telling you about this because we're in, because we want it to be transparent and that money comes to those who need it and not to the party hearers.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41888	Thank you very much. Now does the Government representative want to further explain the report? Yeah. Dear Minister of Regional Development and EU funds Natasa Tramišak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41889	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Honorable MPs and MPs, ladies and gentlemen. In 2016, the government of the Republic of Croatia launched the project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem for greater competitiveness, economic development, job creation and demographic revitalisation of the east of Croatia with several objectives. Putting a special political focus on the development of Slavonia, which has been neglected for years. Correction of the gaps in programming the European financial perspective 2014/20. Correction of the NUC2 region in order to increase support for entrepreneurs and the more equal position of Slavonia and the preparation of strategic projects for the revitalisation of Slavonia. Until then, those projects were gone. The project is also a platform for co-operation of all levels of government, as it enables open, permanent and two-way dialogue on population and economy priorities in these counties, and has encouraged the negotiation of European projects in the area of all five Slavonian counties. Thanks to the government of the Republic of Croatia, under the chairmanship of President Andrej Plenkovic, the decades-long problems of Slavonia have been put into the political focus of all levels of government and the entire Croatian public as never before, and today we are witnessing it. For the first time, the policy at national level has also begun to reflect on this much-related space as a whole, and local mayors, mayors, mayors, mayors, all parliamentary representatives, as well as businessmen with the aim to define priorities with the approach and the principle from above and to listen to the voice of Slavonian entrepreneurs as well as representatives of the government with a clear vision of Slavonia's development. And we saw how long it took to make certain mistakes in the period until 2014. The five counties mentioned in 2012 fell unfortunately to the same statistical region as the city of Zagreb, which is double, i.e. Two times more developed than they are classified to the same level of development, which put them in a particularly unfavourable position because entrepreneurs lost 25% of EU funds. When we talk about the number of agreed projects in the area of five Slavonian counties here is a loss greater than nearly half a billion kuna. Given the heterogeneity of the NUC2 region of continental Croatia in economic, social and demographic terms, the project also sought to mitigate and place Slavonia in an equal position with the rest of Croatia. In addition to Slavonia, the same fate was experienced by other undeveloped counties such as Sisak-Moslavina and Karlovac County due to this division from 2012. The current government led by the Croatian Democratic Community and President Andrej Plenkovic recognized the developmental differences, and in the financial perspective that lies ahead of us in 2021/2027. Croatia is now divided into four NUC2 regions where the eastern Croatian counties have become part of the Pannonian region, which will have a better development perspective, greater access to EU funds and reach support for small entrepreneurs as much as 70% of the grants. The problems of poor programming of the financial perspective have resulted precisely in a large number of individual small projects in the area of these counties. Although here we are talking about projects of contracted value greater than 17 and a half billion kunas that have had the possibility of reporting only through public calls were not only directed at Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem and available to all users. Still, success has been achieved. The programming of operational programmes for the new period is now open to co-operation primarily with regional levels just to avoid unfair programming as the SDP government did in 2014. As a result, there was a lack of large strategic projects of regional importance prepared for realisation for the entire eastern part of Croatia. In this regard, the greatest steps have just been made in the last few years. With Appendix II of the Development Agreement, we have thus classified 38 major strategic projects that have the effect of direct well-being, the backbones of development, for example and primarily here we are talking about transport infrastructure that we all know is necessary for economic growth and development. The reconstruction and expansion of Osijek airport is an example of one of these projects, the reconstruction of the Okucani-Vinkovci railway, Osijek Station, but it is also crucial for prominent projects which are of immense importance for further development of agricultural production such as regional fruit and vegetable distribution centres. Further steps ahead are certain legislative changes and smart specialisation strategies that the government will bring for future developments with an impact on food agriculture, wood, metallurgy, IT industry as well as continental tourism. When I talk about 17,5 billion kunas of contracted funds, I'm talking about 93.6% of the target amount through various operational programmes available by 2020. I am talking about investments in the economic sector in which more than 740 Slavonian entrepreneurs have been supported, 3,200 OPGs that have been given the opportunity to develop economies, and the most important thing is to create about 4,000 new jobs and preserve more than 11,000 jobs. Several planned goals have been met, and we have yet to realise even greater goals. The full purpose of the project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem will be seen after the completion and realization of all the projects and investments that are yet to come. Pre-conditions are created, and now we can continue to invest and develop Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem. It is important to further point out that the project has pointed out the importance of all the roles of the Slavier, which has been neglected for years, and problems and shortcomings have been removed in recent years. The irregular development of the east of Croatia was seen in an inadequate division of NUTS 2 regions as amended. Data on projects in the field of entrepreneurship, agriculture, education, health, research and development of water supply, draining, cultural heritage are examples of what has been done and which direction the Government of the Republic of Croatia has for future development of Slavonia, Baranja and Srijema. Accordingly, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Regional Development and EU funds, rejects all allegations from this interpretation as unfounded, unfounded and incorrect, and proposes to the Croatian Parliament to reject the proposals for conclusions from the interpretation. I leave the word to the Ministry of Agriculture, if you have something to add. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41890	Thank you. Obviously something else will be said by the respected agriculture minister Marija Vuckovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41891	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Appreciated representatives and representatives, gentlemen and ladies, the system of granting support from the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development is based on EU legislation, which is subject to the Agricultural Act by accompanying sublaws. rules and competitions arising from them. The selection of projects shall be carried out solely on the basis of the prescribed criteria chosen, which shall be approved by the Committee for the Monitoring of Rural Development Programmes, which shall make it impossible to benefit from any grant of support to any user, at least today. All payment-paying activities shall be carried out transparently through public tenders with clearly defined selection criteria, conditions of acceptance of the users of the projects and a list of eligible costs. Prior publication of the invitation to tender shall be carried out by the usual consultation procedure with the interested public. The system of granting support is under constant supervision as four audit levels have already been said here. First, the internal audit services of the Agency for Payments in Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, then the Agency for the Audit of the EU Implementation System called ARPA, the European Court of Auditors and the Agency for the Audit of the Directorate-General for Agriculture of the European Commission, thus ensuring the legality of the implementation of the rural development of the Republic of Croatia for the period 2014 and 2020. Any degradation of such an audit system and not by any political council that would oversee it, of course, would not go through regulation or would be appropriate for the 21st century. The Implementing Body shall, when processing the requests and the appropriations of the funds, be guided solely by the eligibility criteria and the selection criteria. Of course, the 4-eye system is used precisely to prevent the minimum possibility of granting support to users based on arbitration or discretionary decisions. None of the eligibility criteria, of course, stipulates that membership in one of the political criteria is prohibited or that the criterion on which a project is approved is. Of course, the refusal or approval of the project exclusively for that reason would constitute a violation of constitutional rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41892	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Hajdukovic has raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41893	I am the esteemed vice president of HS, the officer has been injured. 230. In an item that says to belittle and insult the president or other MPs. In fact, Minister Tramišak did not disrespect and insult the MP but common sense because from what she was saying, the world became with the HDZ government of Andrej Plenkovic, Slavonia did not exist before and did not get a single government from before, imagine.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41894	My colleague Hajduković, I've always considered you a serious representative, you know that's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you get a warning. And you also know that you can always contact as a proposer, that you can answer the line, you can contact it 100 times, not abuse the Rules of Procedure, it's not really necessary. Now, to the respected Minister Tramišak and her exposure before she started exhibiting, there was a series of replicas, and only during the presentation, so let's take the turn. He's the first respected representative of Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41895	Thank you very much. Minister, you've listed so much I know that Slavonia has potential at the level of strong European regions, for example. Bavaria in Germany, however, the fact is that agricultural land remains empty, the fact is that sugar is broken, the fact is that sugar turnip manufacturers are in trouble, our farmers, our milkers are all in trouble. This project has no operational plan, this is a set of all projects that have no points based on a natural and legal person, but this is a table of the list of projects that are from European funds and that is it. This is a PR project, so you called it, so you could buy yourself a future government. If it's like you said in Slavonia, then I don't know what we're discussing.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41896	Thank you very much. Dear Minister Tramišak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41897	Thank you, Your Honor. What is important to mention 17,5 billion kunas of contracted projects speak for themselves, these projects are visible at every turn. What's important is to further say that it's not just money and just money to change things for the better. We pointed out that one of the objectives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia was only to negotiate these funds, all other objectives, and this is to mention the use of national sources of funding, new programmes, new support, change of NUC2 regions, increase support for entrepreneurs by 25% compared to what they had previously had and finally place one particular focus and attention on the development of Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem. What follows us, I mentioned, more than 10 billion kuna investments in strategic projects, and then in the development of all five strategic branches of the economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41898	The next replica of the esteemed Greek representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41899	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Minister, I ask you to explain to Mrs Blažević when she returns why Pakrac 2018. has not entered the extended list of areas of deprived areas of special concern? Please explain it to her, you know why she didn't. In '18, not '14, '18. Secondly, please explain to me how, with this limitation of regional support from 25% to 45% in Slavonia, the average support for 720 projects to entrepreneurs in this list is 60% or exactly 59%. Please explain that, and explain one more thing, and that's how many of those 720 corporate projects with the average support of 60% of those who have entered the regional support system? .../Speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41900	Thank you very much. Dear Minister Tramišak. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41901	Your Honor. When we talk about deprived areas and 5 pilot areas of intervention plans created in 2013, 2014 you know that this then entered into a partnership agreement and operational programmes Competitiveness and cohesion. What you plotted there at the time was and implemented, there was no possibility of expansion for additional cities nor was the same happening in 2018. What you're mentioning is integrated territorial investment and it's a completely different direction or vision that gives regulation to depreciated areas, you should know that as a former minister, and obviously not. Furthermore, when we talk about investment for entrepreneurs and these support, it is incorrect that these entrepreneurs could have reached 60% of regional support. The regional support map speaks of 25, 35 and 45% and for those production investments that are the largest, these other amounts could only refer to support in agriculture if the European Agricultural Fund has different rules than the Operational Programme Competitiveness and Cohesion.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41902	Thank you very much. The esteemed Greek representative has raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. What's been hurt.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41903	... So they're wrong. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] First, there is an exact list of five cities with a population of more than 15,000 which Pakrac is not human. This is not why Pakrac did not enter that list after the list was extended in 2018. .../Speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41904	.../Speakers speak at the same time./... I give a reminder by taking away words.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41905	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41906	The next replica of the esteemed representative, Pavliček.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41907	Your Honors Minister. Here I am listening to you I would say that honey and milk are flowing in Slavonia, that all gold is divided, and since I am from Slavonia, like you and the other know that this is not so. And I don't blame you and your government for being co-founders of this situation, and it's all the governments before you, but in this project of "Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem" which most affects me to show the projects as an integral part of this project that occurred long before the project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem, long before the first council of the Government means while the project of Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem was not in the bandages. For example, the Vukovar project improves the water utility infrastructure that started in 2015 is today an integral part of the project Slavna, Baranja and Srijem, and it has absolutely nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41908	Dear Minister Tramišak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41909	What I can only repeat, and that is what I said in my address to a respected representative, which is that there are many more challenges in Slavonia that we need to address. That this project of Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem in the past 4 solved certain parts of the problem and that we have achieved a lot, but that there is much more ahead of us. And I think that this is exactly where we need to talk about it and create a future direction, a clear vision and future projects, and we need to talk about them and build a future on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41910	The next replica is the respected representative Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41911	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem, among other things, is the response to the inadequately set framework for the equal regional development of Croatia during the planning of the financial perspective from 2014 to 2020, because, namely, the SDP government has left the recognition of the development differences between Slavonia, the capital, the rest of continental Croatia and in 2013, 5 Slavonian counties placed in the same statistical region together with the City of Zagreb and the rest of continental Croatia. The HDZ government corrected this injustice and, if I am not mistaken at the beginning of this year, made a new distribution to 4 NUTS regions and therefore, please explain once again what this new allocation to 4 NUTS regions and redistributions of 5 Slavonian counties means for the development of Slavonia and Baranja in terms of withdrawing funds from the EU. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41912	We have one violation of the Rules of Procedure of Honored Representative Glamuzine. What was hurt in the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41913	Article 238, the demeaning of all those who have already said this, has not been defined by any government of two NUTS regions, defined by the European Commission, although otherwise requested by the European Commission only then accepted such 2 regions. Understand that once, stop repeating lies because it wasn't like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41914	Of course it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so you get a warning. What was injured in the Rules of Procedure by the respected representative Bedekovic?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41915	Your Honor, I know you'll give me a warning, but I can't react to this. Dear colleagues, first of all, do not be false, you should study and learn instead how to create a NUTS region, learn the procedure. And when you teach her well, get behind it and start telling the truth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41916	Dear Representatives Bedeković, you know that this was not an infringement of the Rules of Procedure, so by virtue of Article 240(1), I give you a second warning, the third you are left without the ability to speak in this point, take care of it. We have a replica, Your Honor, is the response of the Honored Minister Tramišak first.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41917	Thank you, Vice President. Representatives Bedeković, but here we are also denying a fellow member of the Assembly the NUTS 2 map was changed in 1.1.2021 to 4 NUTS 2 regions, which is exactly how it could be created in 2013. In the year and that the European Commission has not pointed out that this cannot be because they have now agreed to amend it. It means it could've been like that back then. This means an additional 25% of grants more for every entrepreneurial project to be implemented in the area not only now 5 Slavonian counties but 8 counties that are equally depressed or undeveloped areas such as 5 Slavonian counties. By thus giving this greater attention and more financial support to entrepreneurs, we can create better conditions for business and jobs.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41918	The next is a replica of the respected representative Mark Pavic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41919	Dear Minister, the Honorable Vice-President of the Assembly, and we see full ignorance of the EU funds on the left. That it can be made from 1.1. The government of Andrej Plenkovic has made a new NUTS 2 division. On the other hand, in their conclusion, we do not even know who audits European projects, so once again explain how audits are done. They wrote that they want the state audit to be carried out by all European projects when the Agency for the Review of the EU Programmes is already doing so in its annual reports, it audits all the programmes, then it goes to the European Commission and the European Court of Auditors, so there is something, and they show in the conclusion, and certainly neither Mr. Greek has seen the conclusion, I doubt that such a mistake would go through, they want a state audit that is not accredited to it, there is an ARPA, there is a way to revise European projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41920	Thank you very much. Dear Minister Tramišak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41921	Dear Representative Pavić, you well mentioned all the institutions that are in the EU fund management and control system from the coordinating managing body, level 1 intermediate bodies as well as level 2 bodies, are additional to the ARPA certification and audit bodies, and ultimately we end up in situations where there are irregularities in OLAF. We get these examples for the 2013 programming period, some of the situations that we are now explaining and responsible for the projects that were then implemented, and what is important to mention is that how much we have advanced in the management and control system is seen by that verification to the European Commission where the Republic of Croatia has withdrawn more than €33.8 billion in this period, which put us in plus on the budget of €38.3 billion.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41922	The next replica is the esteemed representative of the Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41923	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Minister, here we have heard some numbers today and I am glad to be able to convey first and foremost the satisfaction of the citizens of the city of Vukovar on everything that is being done in the city of Vukovar. In particular, more than 2 billion kuna from the project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem from the intervention plan, from the Museum for Reconstruction and Development of the City of Vukovar, and it is seen that only the city of Vukovar is provided for more than the entire Virovitica-Podravska County. I am sorry that Mr. Grcic is now gone, to remind him that the Central State Office for Reconstruction and Housing is separated from the Ministry on 1 May 2013 because he did not want to deal with areas of special state concern, so they did not invest in these areas at all and because we had to go and later to create a whole new law. It's about taking care of Slavonia in their day.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41924	Thank you. Dear Minister Tramišak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41925	Your Honor, Mr. Mazhar, you pointed out the exact information. More than a billion kunas right now from the Ministry of Regional Development and the EU funds not only through the European Structural Investment Funds but also through the national budget, or the Vukovar City Reconstruction Fund, have been invested, aimed at projects for the city of Vukovar. In addition, more than 50% of entrepreneurs are released in the payment of different contributions to their employees, thus certainly improving the business climate, but also increasing the number of employees in the city of Vukovar, which you pointed out in the previous exhibition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41926	The next replica is the esteemed MPs Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41927	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Minister, we have already heard in the debate that the project was created in response to an inadequately set framework during the planning of the European Financial Perspective 2014/20. Of course, at the expense of five Slavonian counties. Then these five counties belonged to the same statistical region of continental Croatia as the city of Zagreb. The rate of development was on average 30% to 35% while the city of Zagreb was at 108%. If the answer to that was not this project of Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem where only then would these five Slavonian counties be found.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41928	Dear Minister Tramišak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41929	Dear MPs, Maximchuk. You mentioned a very important thing, and it's a bad programming in 2014/20. It can also be seen from the fact that in 2016 only 6% of European investment funds were contracted. With certain procedures, changes in operational programmes are currently on the understanding of 115% of operational programmes, which says how much effort has been made to begin to implement and implement projects. Most of it is, of course, in the area of Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem. That's what this $17.5 billion piece of data is talking about. It's hard to tell what it would be like to go back to 2014 if we didn't have a project like this. Whether these more than 22,000 projects would be agreed and implemented in the area of Slavonia at all. In fact, any user using EU funds during this period knows that. As well as local and regional levels, but all those who see the benefits and benefits of these projects that have been implemented throughout Slavonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41930	The next replica of the respected MP Vucilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41931	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, obviously this debate is headed towards criticism on the one hand and praises the other. I personally have nothing against any investment coming to Slavonia and Baranja. However, everyone is welcome, necessary, necessary. What concerns me is the structure of these investments. We have infrastructure projects that will later essentially just require maintenance, we'll have expenses. What interests me specifically with 18.2 billion is a lot of money. How many new jobs are open, and I don’t mean the project “Wish” because we all know that’s not what I’m talking about. So new jobs in the processing industry, in the employment industries. That's what Slavonia and Baranja need.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41932	Thank you. Dear Minister Tramišak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41933	Thank you, Chairman. Dear MPs Vucimilović, if you listened in the opening address, I have just pointed out this information. More than 780 entrepreneurs, 3200 family farms, 4000 new jobs, 11000 preserved jobs. These are indicators that are listed in each individual project. So that's verifiable data, data we'll know specifically for the realisation of each of these projects. These are all planned investments, i.e. planned and newly opened and preserved jobs and are realised by 2023. So 4,000 new jobs, 11000 jobs preserved.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41934	The next is the replica of the respected representative Radic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41935	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister, you mentioned the NUC2 region, and I agree that the injustice of the SDP government was finally righted, which made the east of beautiful ours more classed along with the city of Zagreb, which was one injustice because it seemed to us to be more statistically developed than it really was. Can you tell exactly what the new national classification of statistical regions, which introduces Pannonian and Adriatic northern Croatia and the city of Zagreb as NUC2 regions, means for small, medium and large entrepreneurs from like Osijek, Nasica, Vukovar, Požega and other towns from Slavonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41936	Dear Minister Tramišak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41937	Dear Representative Radic, we point out once again that the division into the NUC2 region is very important for further economic development and entrepreneurial investment especially when using grants from both EU funds and national funds and the Investment Encouragement Act. 25% more grants after this change in the NUC2 region will go right to those cities and Osijek and Vukovar and Vinkovar and Požeg and Slavonski Brod. But it is also important here to mention that the north of Croatia has a separate region. They will have 10% more support from entrepreneurs, compared with so far, and will also have Croatia's Adriatic. So the complete space of the Republic of Croatia with this new division of NUC2 regions will have its own benefits and benefits.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41938	The next replica of the respected representative Blažević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41939	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, let's talk about Požega-Slavon County one piece of $1.9 billion came to Požega-Slavon County. That's one and a half billion free. There was also talk here, our colleague introduced us here to the family tree of a family and when we talk about rural development measures, they were listed in rural development measures, so 6 persons, 620 users are small, young OPGs. I don't know which members of the party I'm not getting into, and everyone's been through a public tender, a system controlled by the European Commission and field control. Do you know if there were any possible irregularities, perhaps it was a question for the Minister of Agriculture? And I'm curious, you're always in the field, not only are the heads of towns and municipalities of HDZ in Slavonia, what do the other mayors and mayors of the Slavonia Project that are not HDZs tell you?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41940	Thank you. Dear Minister Tramišak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41941	Thank you, Chairman. Dear MPs, you've just mentioned well, so we don't look at the users of the projects by party and any other belongings. In one transparent way, all of them were allowed to apply to any of the projects they were prepared for, they could provide support, and a large number of projects, especially the OPGs of this 3,200 number that I mention speak precisely in favour of this. If we talk about some of the examples of cities that we can say are not at the helm of HDZ, it's an example of the city of Osijek. On Monday, I witnessed the opening of two-stage filtration and a project worth more than 70 million kuna, which also means well-being for 135,000 inhabitants of the gravitating area of the Vodavod Osijek, meaning providing quality, healthy and proper drinking water for all residents of the wider area around the city of Osijek. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41942	The next replica of the respected representative Vlasic Iljkic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41943	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministers, especially boast, especially MPs Pavić and Bedekovic, that in the negotiations you managed to share Croatia in 4 NUTS regions, which will be particularly profitable by Slavonia. At the same time, you hide that the government is 19.11.2020. However, it has led to an extension of the change to the Regional Support Card of the Republic of Croatia as it was valid between 2014 and 2020. This means there are no larger regional support until further notice for Slavonia. How do you comment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41944	Dear Minister Tramišak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41945	I thank the chairman. Dear MPs, here's your answer. As regards the new Regional Support Maps, the precondition was a division of the NUTS-2 classification of statistical regions in force from 1.1.2021.g. In order for the new Regional Support Map to come into force, new guidelines need to be adopted by the European Commission. We asked for a new regional support map to enter the Republic of Croatia in September last year and 1.1.2021. And we got the answer that we have to wait for the adoption of new guidelines that have been announced now for April. This means that we are now relaunching the initiative and that the Republic of Croatia would be among the first EU member states to follow the new guidelines for the 2021-2027 period and expect the entry into force of the new Regional Support Map immediately after the adoption of the guidelines by the European Commission means no later than May this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41946	The next replica of the esteemed representative, Grman Kizivat.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41947	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister, you promised to negotiate in the new financial perspective of 2021-2027 a new operational programme only for Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem. Minister, why do you promise things you can't do? Where's that program? Unfortunately, he's gone, and he won't be there. And I ask you why?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41948	Dear Minister Tramišak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41949	Thank you. Dear MPs, here's your full answer. Therefore, when we talk about the development of operational programmes for the first time, the Republic of Croatia will also have a 3rd operational programme called "Integrated and Territorial Operational Programme", which is in line with Regulation 2021-2027, which will program 4 NUTS-2 regions. This programming is ongoing, and on Friday we also have the first session of the Pannonian Croatia region where an action plan for industrial transition and smart specialisation strategy will be developed precisely for Pannonian Croatia, this is the first example, followed by other NUTS-2 regions after the production of the same. It means the 3rd operational programme that will enable the reporting of concrete projects for the economy, entrepreneurship and everything we will define in the smart specialisation strategy. Here's the first meeting on Friday.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41950	Thank you. A respected representative and vice-president, Glasovac, raised his injury to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41951	I know that, Mrs. Devereaux. The minister is not a representative, but she has injured an officer. In 238, without answering the question of the honourable representative, which is due. So we should say we lied when we promised a mini-operational program intended only for Slavonia and Baranja, not to talk about the 3rd operational program that has nothing to do with Slavonia and Baranja, but to the whole of Croatia, you know it very well, but do not lie to this troubled people and yet with a smile because the smile will not help you hide or make the citizens blind that they can no longer tell the lie from the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41952	Thank you. Dear MPs and Vice President Vosovac, you know very well that you are the Vice President, the Rules of Procedure, and you know that you have violated him. Don't do it in the future, you get a warning of course for that. We have the next replica of the esteemed representative of Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41953	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Minister, I would once again underline the importance of new divisions of the NUTS-2 region since the greatest critics could have done so long ago tonight and have not done so. Namely, Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem belonged to the most heterogeneous NUTS-2 region of the so-called region. continental Croatia. And what is very sad and embarrassing is that it was only 2.5% of the most underdeveloped NUTS-3 regions in Europe and just a new division and regional support will increase by 25%,
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41954	Dear Minister Tramišak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41955	Dear MPs, I thank you for this finding, that's correct. But what is important to mention with this 25% support that indeed one logic of cohesion policy is just going towards helping and supporting the most underdeveloped regions, and we saw this in the previous period here financially when the SDP government had no chance to program it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41956	The next replica of the respected representative, Zmajic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41957	Dear Vice-President, distinguished ministers, the development agreement of Slavonia, Baranja and Srijema planned 3 business zones in Brod-Posavina County to build municipal infrastructure. Can you tell me what's causing you not to make a public call to this day?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41958	Dear Minister Tramišak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41959	Dear Zmajić, you have stated exactly, the e-project is for the development of entrepreneurship business infrastructure, i.e. a concrete investment in the business zones of parks technology and business incubators, they have had a limited source of funding, we return to poor programming of operational programmes and allocation of funds by individual priority sides. Right now, our goal and task is to program together with local and regional levels and in an appropriate way to place the allocations for funding precisely such projects in the new period of 2021 to 2027. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41960	The next replica is the respected representative Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41961	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister, here I have presented the projects that have been completed in our county, which have been supported, they are clear, visible, 2 billion and some kuna has been invested in all projects. The perspective is ahead of us, 5 billion new projected, some of which you signed these days in Virovitica, the fast road for which the first part of the competition was called. I believe that all of this is probably a problem because how else do you explain this kind of interpretation that has no basis, but it's only being set up on journalistic writings and questions? When I talk about 900 million kunas of our OPGs being confirmed that they have achieved their incentives, that they have achieved their new machines, that they have created their own processing facilities. I think it's true to say in this assembly that someone lies when we present specific data is really brazen and rude. But the people will evaluate it all. As he has so far been estimating. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41962	Minister Tramišak's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41963	Dear Parliamentarian Djakic, here I thank you for this comment. You have pointed out the very valuable and quality projects that are being implemented right in the Virovitica-Podravska County, so more than 2 billion kunas of contracted projects and they are witnessing precisely the efforts the government is making to improve the developmental picture and opportunities in the 5 Slavonian counties. You are one of the smallest counties in the area, and indeed you have done a lot, prepared quality projects and in cooperation with the Government of the Republic of Croatia you have managed to implement them.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41964	The next replica of respected MPs and Vice President Glasovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41965	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, you've spent a lot of energy and they've written you that reader here for an hour and you've been trying to convince us that you've started a rebirth in Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem. You of course won't succeed because your data will differ from our data, and your impression will differ from the real lives of Slavs and Baranjacs, but we are a minor problem here. Let your recent boss, Mr. Anusic, and whoever suggested you as a minister explain that this project is a giant because he himself told the county assembly session, the project Slavonia is nothing special, I have said it many times already, and I have shown my dissatisfaction with the project Slavonia because I believe that the project Slavonia should be drawn primarily through the legal frameworks blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, you first explain to Mr. Anusic that this project of yours has really brought something good to Slavonia, and then sell us your hollow stories.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41966	Dear Minister Tramišak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41967	Thank you. Dear Parliamentarians, what you have stated is not true, the project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem has solved some of the problems that Slavonia has had, I have stated in the opening address that we are yet to face great challenges, large strategic projects that are now ready for realization, that we have used the past time to correct various injustices by putting Slavonia in an equal position, correcting NUTS 2 maps of support and designing major strategic projects that are now ready for the realization of more than 10 billion kunas. I mention 38 major strategic projects that will be the backbone of the further economic development and recovery of Slavonia. What you're saying is that we're waiting for and I also support it, of course they're waiting for us so Slavonia can use her own resources in an adequate way, and that's what's important, and that's what we have to develop.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41968	Replicu also has a respected representative, Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41969	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Minister Tramišak, I don't know if you are the same as most colleagues here just don't want to hear some things, but you have a nice Youtube channel of Osijek-Baranja County where you can hear firsthand from the mouth of your former mayor of Osijek-Baranja County as he said, now that I'm not repeating myself. I can't blame you for not knowing that Osijek-Baranja County, Slavonia and the projects in Slavonia existed both before HDZ and before Mayor Anusic and before 2017, I don't blame you, but you know maybe one other information is also very interesting. And this is that in the last 20 years, the 2 SDP governments of the 2nd period of discontinuity have achieved a cumulative GDP growth of almost 25%. The HDZ governments in the same period, therefore much more governments achieved only slightly more than 12% without counting 2020 in which the growth was annulled. Well, here's some exact data, not lies.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41970	Dear Minister Tramišak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41971	Dear Representative Hajdukovic, when we talk about Osijek-Baranja County, where I have recently worked a large number and a number of projects there have been implemented by all residents of Osijek-Baranja County in the past term, the last 4 years of mayor Ivan Anusic. I myself have worked on many of these projects and have witnessed more than 70 projects carried out by the Osijek-Baranja County itself. I'm talking about investment in primary education, in health care, in homes for older and powerless, but also supporting the development of agriculture and entrepreneurship, in which huge resources are invested. And when you talk about examples of who is in power then I can warn you about the city of Osijek where you participated and participated in the government in the city of Osijek and where the city of Osijek is not exactly the leader of Slavonia and the development generator, or the great city of Slavonia, which we are planning and changing after the local elections this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41972	The next replica is the respected representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41973	Thank you. Minister Tramišak I have for you two questions and two thesis that I will trouble in this replica. First I'm going to quote you in the part of the exhibition you said the space we started to view as a whole, so I'm asking you now, why aren't those five Slavonian counties one whole, one region? Why are you resisting territorial reconstruction when all logic states that these five counties should be joined in a Slavic region? That's the first one. And secondly, it's not the point, and it's not the problem of this interpretation of the number of agreed projects, that's what you obviously don't understand either, or the rest of HDZ, but it's the problem to which these projects have been negotiated and to whom financial resources have been allocated. And astounding is your separation from reality and from life, there's a huge disproportionateity between these powerful finances and the situation on the ground.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41974	Dear Minister Tramišak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41975	Dear Representative Oreshkovic. When we say that the space of Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem and five Slavonian counties are viewed as a whole we are talking about large strategic projects that connect them. These are projects of the Okucani-Vinkovci railway line, Osijek-Virovica, which are projects of Osijek Airport which is the only one in the area, it's a project like KBC in Osijek that is gravitated by more than 800 or 900,000 patients in that area, these are projects that we say when we view them as a whole, these are common or similar problems. We're not talking about administrative or territorial division here. Administrative division of the Republic of Croatia in '93. what it's made has its logic and has its own directions. What we need to do is actually strengthen both local and regional self-government so that we can implement even more projects in a better and more appropriate way because they are the closest in the field with their citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41976	The next replica is the respected representative Saric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41977	Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor. I agree with your report, of course, that all governments so far have had this kind of access to Slavonia as this government has, then this advice shouldn't even be required if the situation in Slavonia wasn't like this and it wouldn't be the subject of this debate. But the subject of this debate is somewhat bizarre and there are no colleagues of Hajdukovic and I will suggest that he once again initiate this interpretation in a way that deals with the remaining 21,000 items, let him investigate who the foreigners belong to, who the godfather, cousin, uncle and aunt and all that he's been listing here today, and let's see how many HDZs they are, how many SDPs they are and how many others they are. So, he's got a colleague, Hajdukovic, if he wants to do some serious research, so I suggest he do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41978	Dear Minister Tramišak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41979	Your Honor, MP. You pointed out very important information, which is a large number of agreed projects, means more than 22,000 projects agreed on in the area of Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem and speak for themselves. What I pointed out is that we can talk about how small-cut projects could contribute to some kind of stronger development in a short period, and we're talking about only a four-year contract here since 2016. in fact, the implementation and realization of the perspective of the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020 began. At the time, we managed to make an important step, and it is also a major strategic project to program it so that for a new perspective we go far more ready with an even more high-quality support from the Government of the Republic of Croatia which was proven in Nasice last October to realize large projects as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41980	The next replica of the respected representative Pavic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41981	Dear Minister, you said that you would correct the injustices that have happened, would you correct the injustices that have taken place in connection with the company "Arbiana" which, as a company from Slavonia, received money and spent it on Rab? Will you correct the injustices of Lučić whose family has received tens of millions of kunas of which are 16 million kunas of grants? Will you correct the injustices of Tomasevic and all those who were with the card and some miracle received grants, and those who really didn't need those funds? Another thing that interests me with the availability of eu funds is to observe their use within the project compared to the rest of the Republic of Croatia. It is constantly talked about the agreed and paid assets, but no comparisons with the rest of the Republic of Croatia are offered. If it were visible by this criterion that the usability of the available eu resources through the project "Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem" is greater than the average of the remainder of the Republic of Croatia, it would be a good indicator, however, it is not visible. Although in the biggest competition and cohesion program.../Speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41982	Thank you, counselor, please, I think that's why there's a certain time. You can't talk, which makes you different from all the other colleagues. Please, let's stick to the weather. Answer, Your Honors Minister Tramišak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41983	Thank you, Your Honor. When we talk about which projects are agreed through the European Structural Investment Funds, we must also know the rules that apply to them, which is to be negotiated through public calls or tenders based on clearly defined rules of allocation and criteria. All these projects must meet these criteria in order to be agreed, and ultimately, in order to be paid to any of the users, they must be spent or spent strictly on those activities and the project you listed. This trip often takes two to three years, the contracting of the project started in 2016. Most of it and we are only now paying users the funds for those activities they have spent over the past two to three years.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41984	The next replica of the esteemed Glamuzine MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41985	I thank the chairman. I thank my colleague Pavić for respecting his order. Minister Tramišak, when the estimated amount for this 10.7 billion-euro project is divided into per capital, taking into account the population of all regions, turns out that residents of Slavonia are getting nothing more than residents of the rest of the Republic of Croatia. So how is this project some kind of special help to Slavonia? Even when it's divided into four regions of the 10.7, it's back somewhere around 2.5, they're not Slavonians in any way advantageous with this project. And please tell me you just said that you have to wait for EU guidelines to change the cards in line with these new NUC regions, how come you have to wait for EU guidelines to adapt, and the SDP government did not but had to magically do it on its own without the EU agreeing? Please explain that to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41986	Dear Minister Tramišak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41987	Dear MPs, here's the first thing I'm going to look back at is a map of regional support. In 2013, when you were bringing a map of the statistical NUC2 region of guidelines then for the period 2014. /2020. They existed. You should have used them. You used them the way you used them. You have again placed me in an unequal position of exactly 5 Slavonian counties which are at 33 to 45% of the development of Croatia with Zagreb, which was already at 105% of its development. It's a long way to fix it. New Guidelines for the period 2021/2027. will be adopted next month by the European Commission, i.e. the European Parliament. We also expect the immediate entry into force of the new regional support map for Croatia, i.e. we have already asked the European Commission to do the same. In addition to what you mentioned at the outset if I am looking well at, or not at, NUC2 regions, and this applies to the percentage, i.e. the contracting of projects themselves. 93% is agreed, the value of projects right in the area... [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41988	Thank you very much. The next replica of the respected MP Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41989	I thank the Vice President of the Parliament. Dear Minister, if the theory is that this project of space is giving Slavonia and Baranja and Srijem special attention so as not to give a stronger impulse to the development of the region. Why this project is not provided with any more kuna than is available in relative proportions to other parts of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41990	Dear Minister Tramišak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41991	So now we'd have to go back to that address and put Slavonia in an equal position again. When I pointed out that in the area of five Slavonian counties the development was between 33% and 45%. The fiscal capabilities and capacities of local and regional self-government were significantly lower than the rest of Croatia. You know that by the rules of the EU funds, you must have sufficient financial capacity for a closed financial structure, as well as opportunities for a stronger and larger withdrawal of funds. If there were no such guidelines and such instructions, the question is how many projects would we be able to negotiate in this area with those capacities that we had back then in 2014, 2015 or the sixteenth year. It is also important to encourage the whole of Slavonia to negotiate, to develop mechanisms, ways to also support local self-government units and through tax reform to better implement European projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41992	The next replica of the esteemed representative, Opačak Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41993	Thank you. Dear Ministers, the project was launched in 2016, and all of which came together in 2017, 2018, 2019 from Slavonia, according to the State Statistics Institute, more people have moved out than the population of the city of the size of Požega or Vukovar, and it is estimated by experts less than half of the real number, and it is only those who emigrated outside the Republic of Croatia, and there are many who emigrate to other regions of our country. In 2109 alone, there were over 6000. People obviously do not stay in eastern Croatia because of this project, the economy is not developing, and citizens' life problems are not being solved. With all this in mind you can answer me how here you can so convincingly claim that the project is successful.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41994	Dear MPs, I'll be back to square one. Part of the challenge and problems with this project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem have been touched. We've solved the part, we've begun to address these key demographic challenges. What is important is that when projects are launched really have one course of project implementation, it is two to three years before their results are seen. We can only now talk about the results of certain projects, and here I am very much in this area of Slavonia, Baranja and Srijema and now I am just witnessing the closure of certain construction sites or the completion of the project. And what I have announced in the new financial perspective awaits us new opportunities to address the other challenges that await us and we are ready for them.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41995	The next replica of the respected representative, Balic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41996	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem have cried out for targeted investments of this kind and the fact that the current government has seen the seriousness of the situation in the east is our best testimony to the fact that the amount of investment is not measured in tens or hundreds of kunas but in billions. If we're going to do it in particular, then we can say that it's final with 31st January 2021 in the area of Vukovar-Srijem County, from which I come, we've agreed 3.5 billion kuna, and for the area of the city of Vukovar, it's 1.1 billion kuna. You will agree that without one of these projects that has been launched to respond to challenging economic, social and demographic opportunities in five of our Slavonian counties, it would not be possible, nor would it be possible for all these projects to come to life unfortunately, had it not been for this project. And in Slavonia, there's a saying that says you sow, that's what you'll reap. Those who sow responsibly and think without delay about all the ends of our homeland, I'm sure they don't have to worry about the harvest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41997	Thank you. Dear Minister Tramišak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41998	Dear Parliamentarians, the exact information that you have cited for Vukovar-Srijem County and I repeat once again we have touched a number of challenges, we have solved certain preconditions, we are facing new challenges to solve major strategic problems and ultimately what we want to achieve and that is, of course, the demographic revitalisation of Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem and I believe that here is a common synergy of all five Slavonian counties that we can create even more quality, even better projects and realize them in the next period.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u41999	Thank you very much, Madam Minister. We also have a question for the respected agriculture minister, Marija Vukkovic, representing Mandaric. Here you are, dear representative of Mandaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42000	Thank you. Dear Madam Minister, I was actually going to set up a replica for you and Minister Tramišak. Let me get this straight first. We heard from the inauguration and you from Mrs Tramišak's minister how well you really responded to all the attacks that came in the first place from the proposings and how sovereignly and answered all the questions, some unpleasant and unpleasant questions. But I'd only like to ask you to comment. Thousands of projects implemented as part of rural development have actually been controlled or handled by audit bodies, one of those four audit posts, and how many cases have some irregularities been identified? I don't mean identifying irregularities of any investigative journalists questionable, I'll say, credibility questionable. How many cases have been identified by the official audit authorities? Here's actually the main reason for this debate, so please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42001	Dear Minister Vukkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42002	Thank you very much for asking the questions of our presentations. So, the rural development programme goes through very serious and detailed audits and control of the higher body of which there are those in the country... The European Court of Auditors, as well as the European Commission Audit Service, are audited and received good reviews every year. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The only serious finding of high importance that exists for the rural development program of these six years. is for measure 4 and this is for the 2015 contest. And we've been trying so hard to figure it out together. Also through the Slavonia programme, Baranja and Srijem is agreed today, with today's date of more than 5 billion and 600 million kuna, of which 4 and 346 were paid exactly. The projects mentioned in the interpretation, and I've counted how valuable they are, are worth 77 million kuna, 38% of these projects are agreed on on the basis of competitions from 2015, and 87% of payments relate to projects from competitions from 2015, these.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42003	Thank you very much. A fellow Mandaric, a violation of the Rules of Procedure, what has the Rules of Procedure been injured in?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42004	... 238, 238, over 3, over 3... [[Last-on speaker]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42005	Come on, please, come on, let's calm down, let's calm down.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42006	In 238, out of over 3,000 projects implemented, no irregularity was identified on any project except for one from who was then a minister, it seems to me that everyone is familiar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42007	Dear Representative Mandaric, you know that you have now injured the Rules of Procedure. Based on an article. In 240th century, I give you a second warning. The third means you're losing your speech until the end of this topic. Take care of it. Thank you very much, ma'am. Minister. Let's go, I'm opening a debate on this wheel and... I'm sorry, I didn't see. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] Here you are, dear representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42008	Well, I wanted to tell my colleague to look at what's usually called "Mansplaining". I'm not sure you should speak for any woman, and at least the minister who's behind the pay phone, so yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42009	Dear Representative Boris, you are aware that this is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, you are being warned. We're going to, as I said, have a debate and the first one on behalf of the Representatives of the Most Club will speak to Representative Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42010	We will talk to the Honorable Chairman about the Pear Project of the Government of Andrej Plenkovic about lies and delusions as everything blooms in Slavonia and Croatia. First of all, I'm glad to see the Minister of Agriculture, and I'm sorry she wasn't on a very important subject where she set us up today. literally abolishing is not an abolition, but the addition of indigenous domestic seed. I believe it won't go away, I don't believe it, but I hope it's because of these Slavs who have evicted the vanko, who you've spent from Slavonia in this project that's ruined Slavonia, not the Slavonia Project. What's the Slavonia Project? The EU's set of projects that have united, there are no points to it, there's nothing but piars and piling empty straw, nothing else. Slavonia has the potential of a Bavarian, potential and counterpart Djakic has just said irrigation. Do you know a colleague named Djakic as far as the Republic of Croatia is concerned? 0.5%, 0.5%, even your prime minister praised everything when he represented the government's programme to quote double how much is now, which means 1% of the millionth and a half hectares of agricultural land, and half of the unprocessed counterpart Djakic, half, mainly in Slavonia. This minister knows very well that from the whole project, that from the whole project, I don't know what you nervous fellow Djakic will be all blooming in Slavonia, everything is wonderful, I mean, I don't know why you're nervous. Do you have any operational plan to tell us to present it to us? Thus, Minister Pavić also came to the Cetina region, in my Sinj, and promised funds to settle 150 million kuna, but the habit before the election, which has been timed at this time, and perhaps another 15 days is time. Or, for example, When I talk about Slavonia and this project I said my position, this is a pyr project, Slavonia with this potential of Bavaria is becoming emptyer and emptyer, agricultural land literally unprocessed more and more, cattlemen disappear, milkers disappear, sugar trees disappear. In this project you didn't write, sugar beets producers, so keep your mouth shut. How much did you say billions, 5.5 billion agreed, can you arrange a billion, how much was achieved? The end, the end of the period, is the end of the period of fellow Djakic, 2023. is when all the projects must be completed. The same is true, you know what I'm afraid of is my colleague and colleagues, ministers and both ministers, don't just do projects like this for the Dalmatian Zagora, Gorski Kotar and Liku who's been promised, such projects, if you touch these projects less people, now statistics will show you a little bit more when there's a list of voters, a list of residents. The voter will be, you also gave a double vote that you raised your colleague Djakic's hand with Milorad Pupovac to have the right to double vote, if SDP had done it then it would have been communists, would have been like this, and you would have been very simple to remain in power in those counties for nothing else. I'd like to go back to projects now, when we're talking about interpelation then the tribune really talk about projects and it would be the goal of telling people what the project "Slavonia" is for you to explain to us, to give us operational plans. How many people in this area, legal, natural persons, have points based on this project “Slavonia”? Zero. So it's a set of project lists, put into a single PR framework, a PR done, which agency I don't know, probably someone did it well, and it's repeated as a mantra. And Croatia is at the bottom of withdrawing funds from the EU, at the bottom of counterpart Djakic. At the bottom after the withdrawal. And it doesn't make sense, I don't think people are laughing in Slavonia. Minister Pavic's not buying perfume is not it, this is a completely different story. Once again, I... I have to go down from Slavonia, I said about Slavonia on the Dalmatian Zagora. The same case was promised to us in Dalmatia, 2 billion kuna projects by the government of Andrej Plenkovic, a colleague of Djakic, who you support, which she made earnest promises in Split 4 years before the local elections, you know how much she made? Zero, zero, zero, zero, empty, nowhere man, nowhere man. You can throw it in the trash can that plan of yours and that laugh of yours. You mock the people where you come from, it's just a mockery. And to you, dear minister, here there is no minister, and the other one would like you to tell the people how much funding has been achieved, so how much has been achieved and what we are in the EU in order, that is very important. So how much has been accomplished? Don't tell me about the deal, please. Slobodan Milosevic won the election in Serbia 105%, you left me thinking one 400% of this contract, and you achieved how much? Did you come halfway? You're not. ... 70%, and, uh, you've reached 70%! [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] What delusions this is, and you can't believe I can lie to my eyes. I can't peek. Since I come from the landscape, here I will say for my Cetina landscape the most perspective, the same thing that has Slavonia is perspective, I said has the potential of Bavaria and the Cetina landscape has potential, my Sinj, Dalmatian Zagora, however, the fact that there is no investment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42011	Col. Bulj, not Cetinska krajina is now a topic so please concentrate on the interpretation of the project "Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem".
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42012	However, there is no investment the same as in the project "Slavonia". I'd be happy if you had someone like this vice president like you to write to me, read it. That maybe you gave my colleague Djakic those papers there that list, don't rub those papers on me, it doesn't mean anything to me. So your projects of distinguished ministers are essentially PR wrapped in cellophane and I'm sorry that the chairman here won't let, to spread a little debate because you're gravediggers, this government is the undertaker of Slavonia. Tell me, what are the effects of this project of yours in dairy production, in sugars, tell me these effects? Give me some effects of this project, give me operational plans, tell us what you've done? Just like my Dalmatian Zagora. Now you're going to the shooters to fight. I remember the extraordinary elections in Lica, behind each beech there was one minister when there was... a fight between I don't know Milinovic and HDZ, for every bus. Give effects, not PR projects, you can't PR projects. He's losing his people, your choices, your people. You gave Pupovac as a Croatian defender, you gave Pupovac the opportunity to double the duration and speak from the bench, the chairman will not warn you. If I'd done it, I'd have got a third warning already. You've been communicating with me for half an hour, without any warning for an hour. The chairman doesn't see it, and he'd give me three warnings in one second. Get out of here. Once again, I would only say that this is one of the greatest frauds for Slavonia, Slavonca and the entire Republic of Croatia. The "Slavonia" project is a fabrication of this government to deceive people before the elections. They only made a list of existing projects of all natural and legal persons in one table and they represent it from day to day, from election to election. It's just a mantra and a scam. The effects don't. What are the effects? No children, young people leave, land unworked, factories fail, agriculture collapse, what are the effects of your desert billion ministers in agriculture? The only thing Monsatno writes to you is to put an end to it. the production of seeds, i.e. abolishing would have been more polite than you if you'd said abolishing, banning autochthonous seed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42013	The next club of representatives is that of the Croatian sovereigns on behalf of whom the respected representative Pavliček will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42014	Dear Vice President of the HS, Your Honors Minister. So I see that some colleagues are showing some graphics, so I'm going to show some pictures, so here's a little bit of this picture or this picture. This isn't '37. Last century, not in '73, not in '86, this is 2020. This is the EU, this is Croatia, this is Slavonia, this is Privlaka. These are the houses that have grown in weeds and dracs you have in all Slavonian, Baranja and Srijem villages and all of us who come from Slavonia know that. Every third house in Slavonia, in Slavonian village looks like this. Owners either died or went to Western European countries, which is unfortunately evidenced by statistics. 2001. Vukovar-Srijem County 204,000 inhabitants, 2011. 179.000 minus 25,000, Osijek-Baranja 2001. 330,000 inhabitants, 2011. 305,000 minus 25,000, Požega-Slavon County 2001. 83,000 inhabitants, 2011. 78,000 minus 5,000, Virovitica-subravska 2001. 92,000 inhabitants, 2011. 85,000 minus 7,000, Ship-Posavina 2001. 176,000 inhabitants, 2011. 158,000 minus 18,000 inhabitants, i.e. total minus 80,000 since 2001-2011 according to population census statistics. Comparing with today's day, it's minus 200,000, 200,000 people less living in five Slavonian counties today than 20 years ago. And that's the result of this government and all the previous governments in the last 20 years. Let's also remember today's president who once said, if I forget you, let my right hand dry. Many have also forgotten this project "Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem" is an excellent marketing trick that shows all those projects that have been applied before the famous project "Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem" and started to be implemented as an integral part of this project. And I do not argue that there are no, there are good projects here, but unfortunately there are also most projects concerning municipal infrastructure, construction and rehabilitation of castles, parks, squares and these are facts, there is no added value, there is no congestion in Slavonia, Baranja and Srijema development. Slavonia is fond of demographic measures for a family with three and more children, Slavonia loves with true investment in the economy. What big foreign investor has entered Slavonia in the last 20 years? Not one. Slavonia likes tax evasion to pay in Slavonia at last to the state average, not to be 30% weaker than the rest of the country. This is how Slavonia is loved, and that is the direction to go. And no one's gonna argue when we get those results, but right now we're a long way from it. Right now we look what we look like, once rich and proud, today devastated and on our knees. It is unfortunately Slavonia, it is unfortunately Baranja, it is unfortunately Srijem.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42015	Thank you. The Honorable representative Vesna Vucilovic will now speak on behalf of the House of Homeland Movement Representatives' Club. Excuse me on behalf of the Government, the first respected Minister of Agriculture, Marija Vuckovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42016	Thank you very much. Honorable Vice President, MPs and MPs. Well, I'm really sorry that there are those here who think that 168 projects are in farms in Slavonia fog, that 300 projects in the sector of warfare and seminary do not exist, that 71 projects big in permanent vineyards and fruits do not exist, that 18 projects protected and open spaces for vegetable production do not exist, that 158 projects for fertilisers do not exist, that 34 projects worth 150 million kuna, for example for processing and added value there are no more than 3,000 projects for small agricultural holdings. I am also sorry that there are those who think that there is no fog 155 million kuna of support from the wine envelope for Slavonia only in the last two years, and the annual envelope is 11 million euros, I really am sorry and apologize to all Slavs who invest and their resources in their projects that thousands of people who are sitting in HS who don't think they do and that these projects don't exist.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42017	Thank you. Please stay here, Minister, because we have more replicas on your exhibit. First of all, he's a respected representative of Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42018	Minister, you really think there are no problems with these projects, you really think that the journalist Hedl doesn't have any credibility, you really think it's normal for your predecessor Tolusic and your colleague, Predator Tolusic, to get 2.5 million kuna because he's the only one who can do it, and that from your predecessor's colleague also for European funds she's set up now these days a company for megaprojects? And you think it's normal, that in no way by law, and you're not even giving this House the opportunity to check out additional families in other Slavonic counties that you've rewarded so richly, you think that's normal?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42019	Thank you very much. Dear Minister Vukkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42020	22,000 and some investment projects are agreed in Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem. As for the wine envelope that the former Deputy Prime Minister has reported, the Minister of Agriculture at the time when he was not an official in the government on that wine envelope has failed you who has passed the administrative control. We have enough funds for all investment projects for all those who meet the conditions.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42021	The next replica of the respected representative Pavic. .../Speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42022	Your Honors Minister. It's not just about the press research, it's actually about the official data we took from the portal, it's nothing new now. The journalist just gave us a little bit of a way to get to that data. But the question is, what are the effects of all these projects that you have now listed here? There's a lot of them, and you said there's a lot of money, but then why are the Slavons leaving Slavonia, why do we have 50,000 people less than two years? What are the effects? Did we open new jobs, we helped people who are currently living there, did we raise the industry, did we... sugar cane maybe? What did we do? What part of the progress have we made?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42023	Dear Minister Vukkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42024	The number of cattle has grown in the last two years, the number of sheep in the last two years has increased, milk is growing in Slavonia not much, not enough for one million pounds in the last eight months, and employment has also increased in Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem in the last 4 years in primary agricultural production by 4%, in the food processing industry by 8%. We don't think it's enough, we can do it better and more, so we're changing the rural development program, so we're changing the production-related support, so we're programming a re-distribution of direct payments, which is why we have focused competitions after changing rural development into reproductive centres, plastics, everything that creates a fast and high added value. That's why we're raising a tremendously under-programmed 2014 Alocation for a process that was ridiculously small, but here we are now in a single competition raised to nearly 500 million kuna if I'm going to be precise at 462. It'll be good.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42025	Thank you. Dear Representative Pavic has committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure. What's been hurt.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42026	Injury 238, it's about me asking the minister what's wrong with people, why people are leaving, and she's telling me about sheep. I didn't ask about the minister's sheep. Well, they're not sheep people.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42027	Comrade Voter, you as vice president of the Parliament really shouldn't yell from the scene.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42028	I'm talking about people, why do people leave if everything's okay, if you have effects, if you have results, why do people leave Slavonia? That's the question.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42029	Dear Pavić, this was a typical replica, and you get a warning. The next replica is the respected representative Vlasic Iljkic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42030	Thank you. Your Honors Minister. It is a matter of non-transparent spending of budgetary resources, and it should always be highlighted and we are trying this proposal and this interpretation to prove that there really is non-transparency. For example, you remember in January of last year, there was an indictment against Puljasic for subsidisation and forgery of business documentation for the construction of the "Dobrisa Cesaric" hall, which is therefore the means through project funds. Meanwhile, footage takes place in which Puljasic is urging the director of the Komunalac, Josip Knightz, to accommodate certain companies at the energy reconstruction of the building. It is also about European funds. So Puljasic knowingly and responsibly sought a contract to harm his citizens and to harm directly from their home budgets, this is your project "Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem" in practice. How do you comment?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42031	Thank you very much. Dear Minister Vukkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42032	Well, I really can't easily comment on phone conversations, and in this way, however, they are no reason to believe that EU funds are being spent non-transparently. There are audit bodies, there are... there are reports of irregularities, there are detections of irregularities if they occur. So, you check out the public procurement ex post and ex ante, who can feel sorry for what he's talking to on the phone for such a procedure, but you can't know that, and money is being spent transparently.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42033	The violation of the Rules of Procedure was raised by the respected representative Vlasic Iljkic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42034	The Rules of Procedure of the Court of Justice have been injured. 238, okay, phone call about Josip Knightz and Mayor Puljasic and his deputy Pilon, but what about the confirmed indictment regarding the construction of the "Dobrisa Cesaric" OS in Požega? So that's not what she told you, it's a confirmed indictment and now in March 2021. The mayor of the newsletter, your mayor Darko Puljašić, where he is on the front page means the hall, the disputed hall subject to the indictment, the confirmed indictment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42035	Dear MPs, it's not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, you might know that, so you get a warning. The next replica is respected MPs Vucilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42036	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honors Minister. I see you're not satisfied with the milk production, neither am I. It is in the past term of the government which has continued to drop production on farms by 11%, as these measures were likely to have some good results. And about the fact that a lot of money goes to agriculture, it goes, so you've recently been to Osijek and ten selected entrepreneurs to share no less than 41 million kunas of grants. How much will this help our agriculture now, hire people when we know that with the one who got the most, I won't name anyone currently working Nepali?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42037	Dear Minister Vukkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42038	You're a professor at the Faculty of Economics, I believe you don't think what some SDP representatives think that said in the "Open" show that statistics are the sum of wrong figures and wrong facts. So, the process of progress and development is long-lasting, he has his interphase, he has his indicators and we finally began to fast them. Efforts and our farmers and processing industries are paying off, Croatian agriculture has grown in the last year, partly due to circumstances which we have not affected, partly due to the work of farmers, and partly due to structural transformation from the Rural Development Programme. These progresses are also seen in Slavonia in the number of new jobs in projects because it is being reviewed, it is listed in business plans and entrepreneurs do not get support unless they have done so. This is evident in the growth of agricultural production, although it is a vulnerable production in the final halting of the fall of milk, and the disaster began with a poor management of the crisis which was in 2013.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42039	Thank you. The next replica of the respected representative, Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42040	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Minister. I will continue with your question and the question that you yourself asked supported by the facts. Does this side of the assembly really think that the projects don't exist? I'll just look back at my Virovitica-Podravska County, 2 billion kuna in this mandate of which 900 million kuna for small projects for the OPGs directly to our farmers at the door. The irrigation system, my colleague Bulj told loose stories about irrigation, 4 irrigation systems worth 250 million kunas in the small Virovitica-Podravska County. I invite him to come see it on the spot. Sirana, entrepreneurship incubator 4 pieces, technological innovation center, 2 billion kuna plus.../The speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42041	Thank you very much. Dear Minister Vukkovic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42042	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, that 11 kindergartens in Virovitica-Podravska, my colleague Bulj of course does not know that more than 7,000 hectares are in 17 projects of which a large number in Slavonia in this programme development is financed from the Rural Development Programme, many of the centres you mentioned, but I do not mention it at all today. I mention projects exclusively related to agricultural economies and the processing industry, projects in which, in addition to public funds, either from the EU or from the state budget, these same privates, farmers, the food industry somewhere with 30%, and that is why I believe in these projects because I believe in work, understanding, capital and everything these people have created that invest in these projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42043	The next replica of the respected representative Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42044	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, Madam Minister, we heard today that we have made our point on this impelation, which is a pamphlet of crazy desires and the dissipation of certain journalists. Journalists who personally made excuses for their mistakes many times, and likely so, Hedl is.../Speakers speak at the same time./... that he has sinned as never in life, so now. In your writings and facts you should know you do not want to respect what is real, you do not want to respect these projects that we have listed across our counties, let alone in all five Slavonian counties. You do not want to understand that there was a catastrophic mistake in the statistical region and the classification of five counties along with the City of Zagreb. It is a disaster that has brought 25% reduction through these years to our entrepreneurs, craftsmen and the development of Slavonia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42045	Thank you very much. Dear Minister Vukkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42046	So I respect the investigative work of journalists, we respond to these queries completely open, transparent, precise and clearly so we will continue in the future. As I said from these agreed 5600 for my colleague Bulja 4346 is paid, so 77 million kuna is the value of projects that are mentioned only on the basis of the first competition of that famous first, that school example of artificial creation of conditions where 55% of allocation was published, of which half needed to leave for a dozen companies again. So only in this competition is 55% of allocation that was to be spent over 7 years on all Croatians for all Slavonians and all other farmers. And as for the map of regional support, I have to say as a former assistant, it's completely wrong to say that it couldn't have been any different, I know when I came in 2016. Unlike those who talk about it in a terriblely wrong way I read the entire study, it was 7 or 8.../The speakers speak at the same time./... [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42047	Minister, thank you very much. The next replica is the respected MP, Cosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42048	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. Your Honors Minister. I must say that I am saddened by the fact that here I am fully confirming the government's intention to change the situation and the situation in Slavonia, so I will only say through the Rural Development Programme in Brod-Posavina County 501 project totalling 930 million kuna, of which 821 million grants, of which 488 projects totalling 729 million kuna are the means to finance the investment of entrepreneurs in the primary and processing of agricultural products. So there are animal breeding facilities, plants, seeds, fruit material, storage plant spaces, droughts, freezing areas, classification, product packaging, harvesting equipment, sorting of packaging of own agricultural products, buying of new agricultural machinery, equipment, economic vehicles, winemaking and irrigation systems.../The speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42049	Thank you very much, thank you very much. Dear Minister Vukkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42050	Short of that, we've done as much as we can by Slavonic farmers who show what they can and know and we need to do even more and we intend to do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42051	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the promoter, a respected representative and Vice-President Sabina Vosovac will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42052	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. In fact, I was inspired by the minister who expressed her grief on several occasions that we do not see the huge effects of the PR project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem. Well, I'm sorry that you're embarrassing us in the EU, that we're the last country to make use of European funds. And don't mention it here again in the debate constantly agreed, you're talking about paid funds from European funds, you're the worst, you're competing with one of Bulgaria. As for the project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem, your prime minister at Nasice's council session said that out of the agreed 16.53 billion kunas, 6.6 billion kunas were paid, poorly, not under every level, and these figures are not being changed. Also, if we're going to talk about some indicators, then it should be if we're making special efforts and you're particularly treating Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem, then I guess that should be seen by the use of the funds. However, when we compare two operational programmes, then we see that in the Operational Programme Competitiveness and Cohesion your use is below the average of 32% compared to the average of the Republic of Croatia which is 35.5 in the Republic of Croatia. It is similar for you in the program of effective human potential where your use is only 43 points, pardon 43.83% in Croatia 45.84%. So you didn't leave anything special to mark in Slavonia. You're below average compared to all other regions and you need to make that clear here. I'm also sorry that you've been planting all day, the night about these NUTS regions as they've turned us back, so as much as your HDZ policy has put us back in Slavonia these 25 years, you don't mention it. But if we're going to talk about NUTS 2 regions and divide Croatia into two regions then here we should say that there may be some advantages because if it wasn't for that division, let's say now that we're talking, Slavonia lost in economic regional aids somewhere around 25 million, but otherwise we couldn't share it because it was 800,000, I can explain it to you later, 800,000 people was minimum to actually be singled out in a special region that Zagreb couldn't be at that moment. We were even thinking about a territorial reconstruction so that we could figure it out, we couldn't do it, but we should say that it wasn't Zagreb, for example, in this regional division of 2 regions, 85,000 entrepreneurs wouldn't be able to use any support for the previous 5 years, and neither would the next 6 years. So then you, it's nothing wrong, just you agree with your candidate for mayor Filipovic who boasts about how much Zagreb has withdrawn European funds and explain to him that you are simply not that principle. If it had been for you, if there had been a division like this where Zagreb was a separate region, you wouldn't have gotten a rabbit, not for the past five years, not for the next six years. It will now receive the next 6 exclusively thanks to the 2013 division. And you, as a very good expert, should know that, you know that, but you will continue to dispute and lie here. Let's go to Virovitica-Podravska County, says counterpart Bedekovic, wow says 2 billion have been invested in the past 5 years. Mrs. Bedekovic did know that 2 billion kuna per project was invested in Virovitica-Podravska County from 2012 to June 2015. Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, the Health Department has invested 29.6 million to resuscitate your only hospital. Virovitica High School received a certificate from the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports for conducting a specialist degree in professional management studies. That you should know there you've been. Ministry of Agriculture invested in your county 1.3 million, Croatian forests 90 million, Croatian waters 278, etc., etc. There are short legs in a lie, there is no need to lie to this troubled people, you have lied to them for 25 years, and there will be still time to expose your plantings. For now, that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42053	Thank you. Stay, please stay here because we have this and the replicas. A respected representative, Bedekovic, has committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in? Please, comrade Voter, you will take the lead session. [[/Intruder: And how much does she have a breach of the Rules of Procedure today?]] Let me take her, though. I never did when you were in charge I intervened, did I? Here you go. [[I'm kidding, I'm just asking, this is the third.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42054	Thank you very much. I risk it, this is my third injury to the Rules of Procedure, but I can't help but answer, dear colleagues, let's not forget that at the time of your term in the ministry, you've just left Pitomaca Municipality together with Virovitica-Podravska County built a high school in my Pitomachi on your own expense. And SDP's minister came to open that same school. His first sentence was, how I'm going to open that school, I'm ashamed because my government didn't invest a single kuna in that school, and the municipality of Pitomaca and Virovitica-Podravska County they built it themselves for 26 million kuna. [[Intruder: We've taken the time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42055	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, Bedeković, based on Article 240(2), I would like to give you a reminder by taking away the words until the end of the debate on this subject. The next replica, the violation of the Rules of Procedure, has a respected representative of Glamuzina. [[I can't answer you, but I'm glad you left us.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42056	I wanted to warn you that my colleague already has two memos from the Rules of Procedure and by getting the third one, she loses her word but you beat me to it. Congratulations on having a great session.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42057	Thank you very much, but I'm giving you a warning, too, because that's your friend. Take care of it. We will now go to the replicas of the respected representative Pavic first.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42058	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, Honorable Vice-President of the Parliament, and you can't say that about ministers that they're destroying the reputation when she, too, is the government of Andrej Plenkovic, has received 24.5 billion euros. If we return to you and your government, your government, Mr Milanovic, has lost billions of euros in EU funds. In SIPA, it was said in this period that those countries that had had a crisis in 2008. A major drop in GDP and entered 2013. They get 10% before 2013. You didn't send any suggestions on that. What did you not react then and receive a billion euros? Why didn't you react then, get a billion euros and react? We get our reputation and... Twenty-four and a half billion, you lost a billion. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42059	Thank you very much. Dear representative of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42060	Our reputation is at the bottom of the EU, we are close to Bulgaria. They're competing with us, and the way you're boasting about it all the time, it doesn't mean anything to us, unfortunately. We got in 2014, 15 years and we're up to 2021. Used how much? Here's five years of this government, one year of ours. We take responsibility for one year, you take over for these other four, we're at the bottom of the ladder. So, unfortunately, that's the bitter truth we have to face. And the same way with these billions that you're showing as if they're growing like pears on a branch that are growing now is going to be a blessing because we're going to have a waste of billions. So what we're worth is billions of dollars if we don't have strategic projects, if we don't have plans to use, we don't know how to carry out transparent procedures and provide instruments to enable those who need them to withdraw as easily as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42061	The next replica is the respected representative Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42062	Thank you very much, Vice President. "Dear Mother, if you're watching this right now, I think it's dark on your eyes." Mrs. Glasovac, I am before I came to this Assembly just saw you on TV. I considered you to be one serious parliamentary representative, a woman who, based on fact, speaks of this High House. What you said is an insult to all the mayors and mayors who, unlike you, live in their neighborhood and live for their people. And this salon politics here is not going to bring Slavonia and Baranja absolutely nothing. After all, that's how you went through the election.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42063	Dear representative of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42064	It's important that you raise the reputation of Parliamentarians by opening your replica with a refugee. And what... Well, yeah, but I don't think it's appropriate here. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] But please don't interrupt me because it's not cultural. Here it is. And secondly, this little wuss of yours to get dark on your eyes when you look at me here or your mother who doesn't look at it or shouldn't look at it. Well, look, I think Slavonia fell long ago dark not because of what you're saying, but what you've done to her in these 25 years and a minimum of decency and culture would be to apologize here for everything you and your party have done to Slavonia and Slavons over the past 20 and a few years. There.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42065	The next replica of the esteemed Glamuzine MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42066	Please, given that it seems to be all the SDP's government's fault here, although we know that only at the end of 2014 have operational programmes been brought in and that this government has only had one year of possibility to negotiate and pay off Minister Tramišak's projects itself said it takes two, three years to make something happen. How is it possible that this government has made more than the next government in a year since 2016 and the 17th time agreed projects amounting to less than 10 million kuna?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42067	Dear MPs, the Voter.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42068	My colleagues Glamuzina, I only know one example that in 2016 and 2017, means when we left power specifically in two total counties, these are Požeško-slavonska and Virovitičko-podravska total agreed projects worth 10 million kuna. And then it probably turned on that alarm lamp to Andrej Plenkovic, and it went on to create the PR project Slavonia and create tables that included all the projects that have been invested in since 2014 until today, so we said in 2015 well, they were at the end of 2014. Formed. But in the fourteenth, we are a 550 million kuna water infrastructure project in Osijek, a regional water supply system in Osijek, an additional 90 million kuna, a 370 million kuna water infrastructure project, agglomeration in Virovitica. These are all our 15-year-old projects and they ended up in their chart, based on the project.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42069	Thank you very much. The next replica of the esteemed representative of Shashin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42070	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues. I see you're not satisfied with the results of the withdrawal. As head of the local self-government unit for 12 years, I think I can talk about how hard it was to nominate, withdraw funds and how it is today. If you don't think it's so easy to walk our Slavonian villages, the Baranja villages, and you'll see that there are no settlements where something isn't built, it doesn't work. If you think the people were more satisfied in your time at Minister Jacob's time when cows and bulls walked around Zagreb, then I don't know what today's ministry should do. I think the results are there. Try, I say I don't know when you were in Slavonic villages, saw, went through it, and then you could do a little better, talk more competently.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42071	Dear representative of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42072	Last weekend and two weekends before that. And when I come to sit down and cry, because these people are not guilty of what you did to them. They leave not only young, the whole family, but they used to come by train without a timetable, as well as my grandmother from Dalmatia to Slavonia because Slavonia meant perspective, life, food, prosperity. And what did you do? You have expelled them, systematically destroyed and devastated Slavonia for your account, your godmothers, friends, relatives, and you continue to do so, but now that you have devastated the local and state budget you have now thrown your paws at the EU funds and that is why today we are talking about this impelation in the Croatian Parliament. And you'd better keep your mouth shut.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42073	Thank you very much. We've run out of time about three hours, so we're gonna take a break from the epidemiological oatmeal. I'll see you again in 23 and 10 minutes. It's 10:00 P.M. Dear ladies and gentlemen, here's the break we've ended up believing we've opened up and we'll move on with the clubs and now, on behalf of the House of Homeland Movement Representatives, we'll be talking to the respected representative Vesna Vucilović. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 23.10 HOURS]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42075	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian National Assembly. Dear Ministers, Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, every topic when it comes to Slavonia and Baranja and the problems that are there for me is good, and that it's a flimsy proof of this term of evening that still overlapped with the game of our football kind, which suggests that it's such a little bit of an awkward subject, but I see that enthusiasm is not missing and the fact is that we should talk about these projects so that this interpretation is commendable. What bothers me in that interpretation is that it turns out to be written by Drago Hedl, a little too many of his quotes, unlike some colleagues, I am not some great worshiper of character and action, and most interestingly we find that this great fighter for truth and against corruption in Osijek-Baranja County sees absolutely nothing, so here is Mr. Mamic from Medjugorje to point out the irregularities that occur at the County Court in Osijek, but that is why there are dots on certain counties. But let's let the press deal go. It seems to me that a little bit in that interpretation were actually colleagues from the SDP who wanted to point out some possible corruption that is going through these projects, but the question is whether it's the Croatian Parliament's address or whether it's OLAF, USKOK or some other institution, but I have to ask the same question, so you were in power, why didn't you solve it, you had an affair. So, it's kind of thin for me. Now, on the other hand, nobody argues there are projects. So that's what we're seeing, digging, it's all about, the badgers get involved especially in this pre-election time, but we're talking about something here called the Slavonia, Baranja and West Sreme project as if it were some kind of special project. Now, if you go to those pages, this is how you say it when these PR mags form it turns out to be some special fund now, some special money. And when you go to a site where all the projects are listed, then there writes a rural development programme, competitiveness, cohesion, etc., and the fact has been listed there since 2014, but mostly since 2016, although advice for Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem has been established in 2017. Now, here I am, which draws my attention to the structure of these projects in which it is invested. And that's what I've been saying all along, and I tell students the same thing, you know exactly where jobs are being opened. Is it by investing in municipal infrastructure or something else. They're renaissance castles that are beautiful, they're beautiful indeed, but there's no new jobs there. They mentioned Nash, half a billion came through the projects. It's nice, our mountain road 500,000 kuna, small park 0 jobs and one and the other, big park 0 jobs. So the question is, who's gonna keep all this stuff going later, where's the money from? Or, for example, a terminal for scattered cargo at the Osijek port of 225 million grants, and the concessionaire pays a little more than 100,000 kuna a year. When will this investment come back? It'll take over 1,000 years. What commercial bank would give money for that? Probably none. My favorite is a nice program because there's really a lot of stuff in that list. Says the program to encourage employment, from Virovitica-Podravska County has no colleagues, half a million kunas have been named truly original, looking for a job welcome to the club, and di that club may be Slovenska 9, Ministerial Forest, cellar or something like that. There's really all this if you comb it a little bit more. For example, doctor’s specialisations Well, wouldn't doctors go to a specialization in Osijek just like those from Split and Zagreb. Well, assistants in the special-needs class, what our kids are less valuable so we wouldn't get assistants if there wasn't this special so-called. The fund. Then, integrated support for the management of energy efficiency of public buildings in the Mediterranean is the project of Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem. Well then, the Croatian scientific educational cloud 200 million kuna. We have two universities in these counties, I guess that's what others use to make it special. And it is crucial for EU funds to invest in. So these funds won't last forever, and I don't know if you've heard about maybe a company in Osijek called Orca, they're making goggles for drones, they're among the best in the world, they've got 50 employees, they've got an office in Washington, you know who's investing in them, the Hungarian investment fund run by a former minister in the Hungarian government. The Hungarians recognized the potential. They're not here on the list, there's no industry like that, but promenades, leggosts and that overrun. And that's not a bad thing to spend a little cement, there's gonna be a lot of people doing something. Is that a priority? That's the question. So, all of this seems to me to be one of the most honest little debates since if you look at what Prime Minister Plenkovic has pointed out that the government wants to achieve through these measures, which is the demographic setback of Slavonia, to develop a Croatian village, to contribute to rural development and to keep young people. And now I go back to the official data of the State Statistics Institute, we had a previous point, they're never exactly accurate data is it, and I don't think Minister Vuckovic's statistics are the sum of incorrect data, but statistics can be presented in different ways, depending on how you look. I try to present them as a scientist always the way it is, so when I said that milk production dropped 11%, you agreed with me, right? So that fundamental goal has not been achieved, and that is crucial. We need to see what we're doing wrong. So these 5 Slavonian famous counties are less than 104,956 inhabitants in the last 10 years, if you extend it to 20 years, it's 190,217 people, so people or leave, they're not born. If people don't have anyone to walk around these steps, who's going to go to those kindergartens, who's going to go to those schools, we're not doing anything right. And what's important here is to point out, let's see what's in it, what's now planned. The line 3.5 billion kuna of Okucani-Vinkovci, KBC Osijek 2 billion, was a billion to two billion kuna, then Osijek-Virovitica a billion and 100 million kuna, which is only for Slavonia, are Croatian railways or Slavonian railways. Let's not collect debts in health care and projects of national importance to push and portray as regional, as if you're doing something for Slavonia, it's done but not enough without further ado. Besides who's gonna build those tracks? Croatian companies, which, most of them have already failed, for the good part, let's see Igma something from Koprivnica now has done something so it will probably be installed but the question is how many of our people will work on it and why maybe we shouldn't use a public private partnership like they do outside, but we'll go like this. So what's key is opening jobs. The 15,000 that you've listed as ministers obviously isn't enough because people wouldn't leave, they'd stay in Slavonia. And that's the key. And now we can talk for three or four hours if it's one way or another, but it won't do the Slavs any good.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42076	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the SDP on behalf of which a respected representative and vice president of Sabina Vosovac will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42077	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected ministers and ministers, the SDP Club submitted this interpretation for two reasons. The first reason is to open a debate on whether Slavonia is, in spite of the economic downturn and the shut down of economic activity, despite the great unemployment, emigration and demographic disaster that we are witnessing at the real centre of the government's attention as a priority of all priorities and what should be. Instead, instead of real help to Slavonia, the government has unfortunately a PR or marketing project that wants to create an impression of something being done. Our goal today is to open a debate on how to correct all the irregularities that have been happening so far and how to help Slavonia really, rather than fictitiously. The second reason for our interpretation is to fight corruption. Money from European funds is as public money as it is from local and state budgets. Its transparent spending, in particular in the form of grants, is the duty of each responsible authority. The project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem must not serve to allocate public European money to prominent HDZ former and current officials, their relatives, godfathers, wider family and party donors. In view of doubts about the impartial and measuring allocation of public and European money, an audit of the allocations should be carried out. In order to ensure that public European money is awarded in the future more transparently, to be impartial and quantifiable, there is also a systematic parliamentary monitoring of the same. The Slavonia project is a project that Andrej Plenkovic, the president of the government of the Republic of Croatia, often mentions. Ten times, council meetings for Slavonia were held, the prime minister and ministers personally attended and announced large investments. The basis for these investments is different European Union programmes through which big money is shared and everything looks perfect at first sight. The European Union is financing. Projects in Slavonia are being implemented. Supposedly, people are probably hiring, opening jobs, and production is probably booming. And so the illusion exists until the moment they scratch beneath the surface and try to analyze how this huge monetary amount is distributed. Do those who really need that money get that money? How real have Slavons and Baranians benefited from the project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem for the past five years? And what exactly is the project of Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem? It has been 5 years and this debate should be for the purpose of informing us what is the announced mini-operative special programme for Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem, which announced its timely and vice-president Tolusic and Resor Minister Žalac. Unfortunately, there is nothing special about this operational programme. So today in the Croatian Parliament we can freely conclude that you have deceived the Croatian public, deceived Slavons and Baranja, because either you never intended to create or negotiate a special programme intended for Slavonia and Baranja, or you failed to do so. It would be nice if you could answer the truth of these two. Equally, it would be nice if we could talk today about what goals we set for ourselves through the realization of the project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem, which are parameters, indicators to measure success. If that is not what we can discuss today, but in this way as we have discussed the past 5 minutes that the Minister and Minister, however, has not yet participated in the debate, are talking about how everything is under control, how things work, how the effects of this project are seen, and we are saying that unfortunately trends in Slavonia, eviction, shutting down certain production plants, non-investment in the crucial circular infrastructure processes did not lead to Slavonia, Baranja developing, but simply stagnating, not to say the harsh word devast. So today it's very difficult for us to discuss this project in such a way. But what we can talk about is whether all the procedures were conducted in accordance with the law and whether the money was meant for Slavs and Baranjacs really ended up where they were supposed to end up, which is in all those projects that guarantee them a greater quality of life or ended up where it might not have been just because some people had a privileged position when they allocated funds, so we saw how they opened up companies for some areas they never dealt with and achieved incentives for something that they suddenly discovered afinity to specific parts I'm going to say it like that to agriculture. But let's not deal with godmothers now, uncles, HDZ donors. Let's take an eclectic example. In January of this year, the mayor of Požega, Mr. Puljasic, is being charged with agreeing or coercing the head of a utility company to adjust works on the energy reconstruction of residential buildings in the town of Požega. Is that the money of the European funds? It is. Is there something wrong with that? Obviously not, because what was done with money from local budgets is now starting to work from European funds. But what's the problem? If it were to be done with Croatian budgets in most cases, the Croatian judiciary would unfortunately not burden you, or if you were burdened then you wouldn't have to pay back that money. Here, if it is determined that money has been manipulated from European funds, that price of setting up competitions, the abuse of public money will be paid by all of us and it is not something we can only shake hands and say – it is simply none of our business – we need to talk about it. That can't happen. Now let's take it in a row. Just a few things I'd like to define here. Slavonia are meant to say 17.8 billion kuna or 18.3 as someone will say. However, this is no special concern for Slavonia and Baranja. The money that is made available to Croatia, which is agreed, which is about 10 billion if you share it with other parts of Croatia, then you will see that Slavonia has received no more, no less than the rest of Croatia. She got the same thing. So if out of these 99.8 billion agreed funds cca 106% of allotment for Croatia is agreed through the project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijema 17 billion kunas from planned 18.7 when they are divided by the number of inhabitants, it is easy to come to the conclusion that in all Croatia the amount per capital is 24560 kuna through the project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem 24250 kuna per capita, which would mean that it went a little bit worse. In doing so there are equally great differences and among the 5 counties of this... For example, the agreed funds in Brod-Posavina County are only 12600 kuna per capita, and in Požega-Slavonska (Slavonska-Slavonska), which is significantly below average. [[You don't understand.]] So these examples show that there are no special results of government activities and parades in Slavonia. It is clear, then, that this project in the implementation is not particularly isolated from all of Croatia, although it should or should be expected that the Croatian state is more or more than average money, investing in less developed regions. This only supports the the thesis that the HDZ Government has entered the project in an unambitious manner with poorly set objectives that cannot move Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem towards convergence in the medium and long term. Unfortunately, you have the impression that you have decided on a little concrete work for what Slavonia needs in strategic goals for some non-transparency that should not have happened to us and a clean PR strategy. And it is a real impression that the only thing you have done in these five years is that you have employed at the Ministry of Regional Development and the European Union funds and in other ministries employed to type in a summary table all day long according to location 5 counties of projects that are once approved. You type approved projects, you haven't designed a mechanism to help that area and I am responsible for saying that, because when we look at the National Development Strategy, we also don't read there, except that the model will be extended to the Pannonian meaning at the earthquake affected areas, we don't see two or three strategic projects that should be crucial to us for Slavonia and Baranja. And this is the biggest problem of this project that it is not, but it is called the project and it is actually about the funds that are intended for all the regions of Croatia, only that you have not dealt with the other parts of Croatia with the title PR yet. I hope that out of this debate today, regardless of the raised tones and the heated atmosphere, something good will come out, that we will remove the irregularities that have been happening so far, and that we will focus a little more on what we want Slavonia, Baranja and Western Sreme to be in the foreseeable future and all these funds are directed in that direction, and not some other directions that do not actually benefit Slavs and Baranjas.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42078	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives will be the HDZ on behalf of the respected representative Marko Pavić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42079	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, dear ministers. Well, on behalf of the HDZ Club, of course, we completely reject the allegations of impellation. I am sorry that today we have a debate on such a low level of expertise that basically the entire Interpol consists of pulling 5.6 cases from the media and trying to put aura of corruption on all European funds. That doesn't exactly stand. We are proud of the project Slavonia, Baranja, Srijem. It's about 21 thousand projects and 17 and a half billion kuna agreed. Therefore, we do not allow mud to be cast on all the successes we have, which have finally also been confirmed by the citizens in the last elections not even a year before. How did the project of Slavonia, Baranja, Srijem come about in the first place? Yes, colleagues from the SDP did not manage in the EU funds. You've left us 9% of the contract, 1% of the payout. We're at 114% of the contract now, 50% of the payout. But in order to pay off, you have to make a deal first. But the biggest damage you've done is bad programming. Why are we even going to the project Slavonia, Baranja, Srijem? Because you've misprogramed it, and we're going to fix it for the next period. If you're asking why we're discussing your government? Because what you did at the time is worth 10 years, as we now program, and we are more inclusive because we call all mayors, all mayors, and we don't look at which party and which colors they wear and we won't list here any of your mayors, mayors, friends carrying EU funds, because we're proud of everything that's been fought. And what did the SDP government do then? So I already said that we could have a billion euros more,... two regions. [[You don't understand.]] So why did it go into the project in the first place? Because five Slavonic counties... Undevelopment is about 30% to 40% of the European Union average, the City of Zagreb at 108. [[You don't understand.]] And despite that SDP difference, the government then brings the division of NUC2 and says it cannot. How can you not? So here's the government of Andrej Plenkovic of 1. 1. In 2021, she did it. That says enough how unstructured you are in the EU funds. And how rude you are in the EU funds is absolutely your conclusion. When we look at your conclusions, you now prejudge some corruption that HDZ is on the party line and you're looking for a state audit, and you have no idea that the state audit has no authority to do so. It is not accredited from Brussels. This is European money. The Agency for the Audit of the European Union ARPA Programme has been accredited for this, which has already been revised in the annual report and sent to Brussels by most of these projects you have drawn from the media. So if something had been as problematic as you say in the Interpelation Brussels would have already reacted afterwards. So it has four levels of audit. It's the first one that only carries out the body that implements the program. The second level is the ARPA which audits all programmes in the annual report. The third level is the European Commission and their auditors. And the fourth level is the European Court of Auditors. We've been through everything to the board for these projects. No one's found anything anywhere. If you think, well, here's a question for Mr. Hajdovic and you, how many of you have personally reported these projects to OLAF? There are ways to apply and it is not in Zagreb, but in Brussels. When we talk about European funds, they improve the lives of our citizens. They change Croatia and change it to a positive. European funds ensure a better life. They're securing employment. Nine and a half billion kuna went to covid support European funds. In what way? We could have just because Croatia reacted in Brussels. We secured maximum flexibility during the chairmanship. We could've channeled the money into that and into protective equipment. When we talk about the Slavonia project, what's in the 21st thousand projects. There's a hospital renovation. All day hospitals received 50 million kuna each. There is a Student House 796 seats in Osijek for 174 million kunas, Osijek KBCs, schools, hospitals, entrepreneurial incubators, agglomerations, roads, and then your government lost a billion EUR, we get 24.5 billion. And we know what we're gonna use it on. Congratulations and the minister when I was preparing for the debate, I thought that 5.3 billion kunas from rural development or support was ultimately only in the last 3 months that data from 1.1 in the last 3 months were 300 million kunas of paid funds. So congratulations to the minister on that. 200 new kindergartens a good part ended up in this. Also, by tax reform, the government of Andrej Plenkovic has provided additional funds to cities so that they can implement these projects. As we know, they must secure 15% of their own resources. Billions of kunas are to cities and municipalities, and there we were to be included in the counsel. For the project Slavonia, Baranja, Srijema are all parliamentary representatives invited from Slavonia County unrelated to the site. All mayors and commissioners unrelated to the party. And then when the mayors of the opposition come to you in public to praise you there, and maybe we did something good. The fact that this project does not exist, and the European Commission argues otherwise, if these are European funds and the European Commission distributes them and it says that the project exists and praises it and promotes it as an example of good practice, because Prime Minister Plenkovic presides the advice and as such is unique as a regional project, and apparently there is something that we do well when the Commission sees that there are some auras of corruption there, so it would not occur to her to promote the project. Therefore, neither of your reasons nor your interpretation absolutely stands. What we see is not ignorance, labeling, convincing newspaper articles and not getting along. And what did we provide for the future? The government of Andrej Plenkovic is EUR 24 and a half billion and whoever says it's a lie. Why? Here I was also personally a participant in these negotiations when the first projections came out rather than the European Commission's box we went down 2 billion euros. And is it precisely because of the investment of European funds in 2018, our GDP is just across the country for some fifth decimal to be over 60% of the EU average, we have entered the second limit and 2 billion euros down. So we started with negotiations with EUR 2 billion minus. Got 24 and a half billion euros which is 2 and a half times now. We received a special article from which to finance future projects in Slavonia. Prime Minister Plenkovic Article 65 for less developed regions of an additional EUR 300 million, an article for agriculture of an additional EUR 100 million. Therefore, the SDP government did not know how to move in the regulation and that Croatia would get 10% up and a billion euros respectively, and the HDZ government could put Article 65 of the additional EUR 300 million for agriculture 100. So whoever claims it's a coincidence, it's not a coincidence. The government's priority will be even regional development, there will be other projects. What I can conclude is that the European funds change Croatia, that we believe in the rule of law, is why we have supported.../incomprehensible/... the principle just for the sake of the EU funds that you have cited are from earlier years that have passed all the revisions so that we reject all your thesis entirely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42080	Thank you very much. In violation of the Rules of Procedure, MP Grmat Kizivat reported. What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42081	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. 238, my colleague Pavic, I really don't know what country we're talking about. When you talk about your ability and your withdrawal of EU funds, I'd think we're little Switzerland. What are you guys talking about all the time? I come from Slavonia and everything you said is absolutely incorrect. And thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42082	Of course you'll get a warning because it has nothing to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Now, on behalf of the promoter, a respected representative, Hajdukovic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42083	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, you say you are particularly proud of the Slavonia project, and obviously not all of your colleagues and colleagues share the opinion of the party in particular. Now let me not quote again because I don't think that really makes sense. As far as I'm concerned... [[Intruder: You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42084	Please not from the bench.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42085	I don't know who he referred to, I know what the debate was and what date I said in 2020, so get rid of it more. Since 2020, Milanovic, I think, is responsible for everything, and HDZ has been in power for 30 years, but good. [[Intruder: Please.]] So, when you're talking about a professional discussion, but let's get our colleagues to a really professional discussion. When you say we got 24 billion, we didn't get anything, we got far from it. It's at our disposal. And if we're going to win, if we're going to invest, that's another thing. Well, if we're gonna talk professionally, then let's just say it and expose it. But a colleague, and about expertise would be given now, I don't want to get involved in such low circumstances, it was necessary to be professional in order to see possible conflict of interest in this data. Do we really need a profession for that? What names are listed here? Why is it such a miracle not to give God some reporter something to write about? So I understand that journalists are irrelevant to you and that the media is also irrelevant to you, your party president and the government and Deutsche Welle is not a good enough medium when it says about him or Croatia, I understand that. But why would something be a problem if it's in the papers, if it's in the media? Well, that's why there's a colleague in the media. Now let me also as this small part as a political politician tell you that the media is actually one of the government's corrections, including the opposition. Well, it's a media job, like our job to point out the irregularities we see. But it's not crazy again, it's to make something out of this. In the end... You know very well how the Commission observes the projects. [[You don't understand.]] He doesn't know who Lucic is, who Tolusic is, especially who are whose godmothers, etc. Just like the commission doesn't know if a company was registered until yesterday just for not knowing how to irrigate, and as of tomorrow, it's registered to manure and to trade large and little does the commission know. When the Commission sees the paper, it's all right, because the paper doesn't say that the owner of the former minister whose project was decided by someone he was in charge of recently... and, etc., etc., etc. [[You don't understand.]] Well, who doesn't see at least the possibility of a conflict of interest from not using a harsh word then I really don't think I know what we're talking about. Don't be led by the fact that the lie that's repeated 100 times becomes true that we won't let you, it won't allow you fellow journalists, because their work and not just colleagues Hedla most often mentioned here is not the only one who wrote about it, but we've made a lot of reference in the Interpellation to that, and we've checked all of that information and everything is true about what his colleague Hedl and other journalists wrote. But all the way to one number, all the way to one name. So if you study the family trees of those officials and the people who got that money, it all stands. In addition to telling you the fact that Minister Žalac, who was in charge of the European funds, left the government because of again suspicion of corruption and corruption. Well, I'm sure if she did such a great job, she wouldn't leave because of corruption. I mean, I don't know, I'm asking you rhetorically. You don't have to answer because I know you won't. And only then does this mean that this should be the focus of your colleague Pavić's debate, but also other colleagues and colleagues, and only then can we get to the results of the project, and the results are three. Your colleagues are telling us who we are with the moss of Slavonia, who we have stayed here because we have recently taken a walk with Slavonia. Are you a colleague of Pavić's? So because of this project Slavonia does not stay people in Slavonia, no new jobs are created, no more children are born. So what's the point of that? So I'm going back to that story from the beginning of the show, we're building a station where the trains don't drive from. We build schools that kids don't go to, etc. Obviously I have to repeat here... Some things to sit down, because I don't know, I'd like to develop that possibility of listening without hearing it would be easier for me. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42086	The next will be the Club of Representatives of the Centre and Vosa on behalf of which the respected representative Dalia Oreskovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42087	Honored Chairman, fellow MPs and MPs. First of all, I would like to address the representatives and representatives of the HDZ here, together with your President of the Croatian Parliament and tell you to be ashamed. Shame on you first of all that we have this Interpellation again in these tiny nights. The very term in which we are discussing such an important topic is the degradation of the state, the degradation of this institution, the degradation of Croatian citizens, and then you are ashamed that this debate does not carry the HRTs as a public service. What are you afraid of? The truth? Well, if there were any truth in everything you boast about this evening that all these mere millions and billions were really invested in the welfare of Slavonia, then you would be interested in all this being spoken of in terms, not now. You humiliate the public, you humiliate the people who pay for your work and your good positions. I'm ashamed to actually be among you tonight, because in the eyes of an average citizen all of us politicians, all of us MPs are all part of a privileged caste and we're all the same. Well, we didn't. I will never let anyone think of me as anything similar to you and your values. Yeah, I'll say, you're ashamed. And stop throwing it out of the bench. [[Intruder Reiner: Please don't from the bench.]] Your colleague Pavić was not warned by the chairman, and he behaves differently when speaking from the bench someone from the ranks of opposition parliamentary deputies and should talk about it. And yes, I'll tell you something else. You are also ashamed of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, and this has been the case for a long time. Since one change, yes, yes, get out of the assembly. Get down from the government and that would be a move for the better than Slavonia. From change to change, the Rules of Procedure have been dissipated, and the right dialogue and the right debate has been disabled Now we're raising each other's injuries to the Rules of Procedure. [[Employer Reiner: Representatives Oreshkovic, we are not talking about the Rules of Procedure...]] Okay. [[/Intruder Reiner:... but on another topic. I ask you to stick to the subject in the order of Article 232.]] I'll stick to the subject. The theme is everything that's been said here tonight, and among other things, it's said that you, sir, address the MPs in the verses, the Vienna. You've become a songwriter. You humiliate, you demean, there are no arguments to justify the one and only the thesis discussed in this Interpellation. And yes, I'll say something about it. There's no need to repeat the same arguments that were so perfectly, precisely, pedanticly explained by my fellow SDP MPs. Yeah, I'm a lot of critics, too. That I often disagree with them at all is the truth. But also representatives from some other political options from the opposition ranks said something important and important about Slavonia tonight, and I support and support each and every one of them. The primitive rhetoric is what prevailed tonight, demeaning. The minister, former Minister Pavic, is now calling for the ignorance of the opposition on who should investigate all these violent malfeasances. Yeah, maybe it's not the State Review, and why it's not, why it's not Uskok, why it's not the DORH, it's the real theme of this interpretation. Where's the state, where are all those who should be watching? Is everything okay here? 18 billion kuna, 16.5, so what are those numbers? So where's Mr. Pavic now to ask him if I should ask him if he's ever going for a ride with all his playful stories about the withdrawn billions of Slavonic villages. We're talking about numbers that the average Slavonac can't picture for himself, or string if it's not from the ranks of HDZ and you're close. We're talking about Slavs who, when there's 50 kuna in their wallet, think they have a real fortune, and you're hitting on some great results. So what? What exactly am I most sorry for? The fact that Slavonia is from a fertile, beautiful, perspective, piety people, beautiful, beautiful, hardworking people turned into a devastationed, unperspective neighborhood. She survived various occupations, and I'm not sure she can survive HDZ rule. The more I am not sure whether the HDZ rule can survive Croatia. Please make sure that this is the last interpretation you put into such a small, late, nighty hour. And if you have anything to say about living standards and prosperity and Slavonia's well-being, please make sure you put it on the table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42088	That's what we're done with the club debates, and now we're going to move on to an individual debate. Before we start just one piece of information. I've looked at the number of people reported, assuming that neither the motionor is answering, nor the government representative is answering, and there's not a single replica anywhere around three hours we'll be still here. It's midnight now, so here's just as much as information. And so we go to the debate, and the first individual debate will be discussed by a respected representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42089	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Three hours and assuming you don't have this kind of intervention, but it's also three hours because, late at night, because that's what you decided, or most of it. I've talked about it before, I wish we'd discussed this in time, the Prime Minister said that this is something great, that this is certainly something to say, and where it is now, it's gone. He's watching the game, maybe he's exhausted from the vaccines, etc., etc. Well, good. A lot has already been said, but I want to draw attention to some things that obviously need to be repeated. I'm used to repeating things, I've worked long in the education system, and they say repeating is the mother of knowledge, so let's do it in order. So I still can't get the impression that colleagues and colleagues from HDZ like to use arguments only when and how they fit. And things change in the Union, the Union is also a changing institution and situation now and five years ago, and 10 years ago it's not the same, it's not nearly the same. The division into two statistical regions was the only possible at the time i.e. The only one the European Commission wanted to accept. What reasons were they now might explain to you again by morning, but I don't have time for that, and not even if I report every time on behalf of the promoter so that I can. However, the former government, if already, of the SDP, if we have to go back to history, insisted that Zagreb be singled out as a separate statistical unit, however, this was not possible at the time. And that is why we have decided on some compromise solution. This division into NUTS region 2 has indeed reduced the range of state aid but only for economic operators in a limited number of programmes at their disposal. However, I ask you what about all projects that are dominant by size and value that do not apply to businesses and entrepreneurs, which are not affected by NUTS 2. What about social infrastructure projects, transport, the environment and everything else that could have been applied at regional and local level. Why isn't the City of Zagreb? So we can also discuss why someone didn't want to get involved, say, with European money. I think I know why, but I leave the conclusion to you. It must also be known that 85,000 entrepreneurs registered in Zagreb, which is almost 50% of the Croatian economy, would have no support for the last year, for the past 7 years, and especially for the next 7 years, that Zagreb was originally singled out in a special region. This is one of the reasons why it broke the SDP government to eventually give up Zagreb's separation into a special statistical region. So 50% of the Croatian economy would be cut off for any support. This is how they had the chance to receive at least some. And why Croatia is today 7 years after the start of the financial perspective 2014-2020. the last EU country to withdraw money from EU funds? The minister said well that it takes several years for some results to be seen, but since 2015. In 2016, since HDZ has been in power so far, the results are not so great or we haven't exactly celebrated in withdrawing money or not withdrawing, realising because once again we have to demystify agreed and paid is not the same. If something is arranged, it doesn't guarantee that something will eventually be paid. But it's interesting that the project Slavonia doesn't exist today, so we don't have a specific operational programme, that it's only 2017. The government announced it, and only in 2018 did it actually make some formal shift towards having something categorized as a project of Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem. And on a regular basis, the project has been including all the projects since 2014, so all those who have been in the financial perspective, who have not been able to prepare everything. Here in Osijek, I can list at least 5.6 major infrastructure projects initiated by the SDP government, but I think where is the point, to argue who launched which project, not the point is whether Slavonia benefits from this project, which is the benefit and whether people stay in Slavonia. In the end, whether the money that should help the inhabitants of Slavonia, Baranja, and Sreme is poured into the right pockets or into the pockets that are intended or the pockets of party listeners.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42090	We have one replica of Honorable Representative Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42091	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Hajdukovic, therefore, if we call something a project and say something is called a project then this project should have some purpose, meaning, some reference points and we should also know what we want to do with this project and have some points where we control it. So this is actually about one marketing so that you could call it a trick or another, because it wasn't designed as a project, it was just a topic that you could go to Slavonia and parade there a little bit. But what did Slavonia get out of it? One thing that you recognized as someone who lives, who cares about Slavonia, what is the result of this project, which was the meaning of all of these goals that were on several occasions directed except that there was Prime Minister Plenkovic and Ministers taking care of Slavonia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42092	Thank you. Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42093	Thank you very much. Well, yeah, I guess the greatest reach of this project is that here's the advice for all parties. You might think, well, that should be one perfectly normal thing in every democracy. But it's very nice when HDZ tells you every time it tells you about a compromise, when it tells you about joint thinking, then you know what the HDZ compromise is, the compromise is that we're thinking what they're thinking, but that's not how we can talk about it. I wish we could agree on a lot of things that should be strategic for our country and for our east Croatia. But you can't cover up a mutual conversation and a deal expect you blindly accept someone's position just because someone's coming from someone and because someone's in a position of power at that point. You said right, what are the goals? Well, the goal would be for the economy to grow, for people to come back, for people to stay, and I'm afraid, it's clear to anyone who walks through Slavonia that that's not the case.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42094	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the government, the word will be taken by the respected minister of labour, pension system, family and social policy Josip Aladrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42095	Dear Mr. President or Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, since the beginning of this evening, we have been hearing about the project Slavonia from a context of less or less infrastructure, and a little less from the context of the operational programme of effective human potentials. What I want to highlight, and it is related to the entire operational project, as well as part of the project that is related to Slavonia, so with the project Slavonia, the whole project contains a financial allocation of more than 14 billion kuna. If we look at priority axes or priorities that are highlighted through the project, through the operational programme, effective human potentials they relate to employment, education, health and social inclusion. If, on the other hand, you are looking at the entire financial allocation or the agreed funds through the Slavonia project, we are talking about more than 2 billion kunas. In today's debate, we could hear several times that nothing happened on the economic side, that there was no employment, that there was no increase in the number of jobs, that the project Slavonia on the economic side did not happen much, but only on the infrastructure side. I have to deny it with hard indicators. As a rule, hard indicators are figures that simply make some discussions immaterial. From units of local and regional self-government to civil society organisations, from funds invested towards primary and secondary schools, according to a system of educational and educational institutions, so we are talking about a whole set of projects aimed at just strengthening these priorities in Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem. What we can also point out as a very quality project and as a project that has contributed to both employment and education and social inclusion is the project Zaželi. Some have tried it today in the debate I will dare say and belittled, however, it is a project which has experienced a financial allocation in its two, and now in the third stage more than 800 million kuna, which employs more than 3,300 women who care for more than 20,000 users. So we have to look out except for the infrastructure part and the part relating to the depressed groups or unprotected groups of society, and right through this project and in Slavonia and Baranja, we did it. When we talk about government policies towards Slavonia and Baranja, and from the domain of economic direction, so from the domain of the priority axis of employment I have to deny some here with hard indicators again, by numbers, therefore. We are talking about more than 1,600 employees in Požega-Slavon County over the past 4 years, more than 2,800 employees therefore, extra employees compared to the period before in Virovitica-Podravska County, more than 6,000 employees in Brod-Posavina County, 9,000 employees in Osijek-Baranja County and 4,800 employees in Vukovar-Srijem County. These figures, unfortunately, no one here, or fortunately, here in the assembly tonight can be denied. It is the success of government policies, it is the success of the Slavonia project, it is the success of the HDZ government and it is its contribution to the development of Slavonia. This part of the hard indicators of numbers cannot be denied as it cannot be denied that voters in 5 Slavonian counties also recognized the same thing in the two electoral units at the end of the number of mandates on my right and the number of mandates on my left which in Slavonia in the elections reached speeches in this context. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42096	Thank you. Stay Minister. There's more replicas. You're too late. Excuse me. The first is the respected representative Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42097	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister, you mentioned the project Wish Help to Old and Infirm Persons. But what it really represents is that it is marked by the expansion of users who could finance the services on their own, while those in need cannot get to the service because that capacity is actually filled, so that this project is not exactly what you are currently representing there.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42098	Dear Minister Aladrovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42099	Well, I wouldn't agree with you at all. So, Project Wish is in the initial financial location. His financial allocation is expected to be less than 400 million kuna. We are now at over a billion and 600 million kuna, which is invested right in the project Zažela. This project Zaželi has said three components to myself from hiring women who are hard to employ, from education that these women who are hard to employ pass to the social inclusion of the users covered by this project. So far, I have to admit that no matter what city or municipality or city or municipality it is and which mayor or mayor of municipalities or city it is no matter which political platform or party it comes from, we have not seen more significant concerns about this project and negative implications. So I have to admit, I was a little surprised by your question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42100	I see the esteemed representative has committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure. In what way has the Rules of Procedure of Honored Representative Vlasic Iljkic been injured?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42101	Yes, Rules of Procedure Article 238. You mentioned the meaning of Project Wish and you don't see anything controversial about it given the users because you don't have the information that something in it is controversial. You dispute that the number of users is limited and full capacity. So there's your... Do a little review of those people, those users. [[You don't understand.]] There are people who can pay for their services on their own and not pay for other service providers, but get it for free. And those who really need it can't come. [[Thank you very much. It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42102	Dear MPs Vlasic Iljkic, you will receive a second warning in accordance with Article 240(1) by taking away the words, and the next time you will be speechless permanently until the end of this point. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Villa Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42103	Thank you. Minister Aladrovic, you spoke of effective human potential. I agree that these women must be effective human potential and that they need to be invested in that money. It's not at all controversial. There's a lot of money at your disposal, and first of all, it's never been to anyone before. Your predecessors, not you as a minister. But you as a minister do you want to tell me all that money is... that you, as Minister of Labour, know... [[You don't understand.]] Social policy, though, is it uncomfortable for you that your father's former mayor, former mayor andpleternica and the man who's president of the city council are your father, your father and your aunt are they human potential? [[You don't understand.]] You know, for that poor girl, it's 372 thousand kuna or Aunt 111 thousand kuna, did it make you uncomfortable here? Are you getting red in your face? You're a young man.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42104	Thank you. Dear Minister Aladrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42105	I thank you for your question, Agent Matula. First of all, it's not the Fleet Room. It's the town where I was born, where I grew up in which you probably never were. Second of all, if you're talking about my family, even though I represent the Ministry of Labour here, I'm going to show myself to you. My family's been in the field for about 30 years, just over 30 years of fruit growing, and she didn't use any privileges that were not used by other farmers who did the same work, and they used it at times when I wasn't in this place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42106	The next replica of the esteemed MP, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42107	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister Aladrović, therefore one of the reasons why you call this project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem is the topic of even development. Equal development means that all those spaces of the Republic of Croatia that are located, which are less developed, try to reach those areas that are better developed and then develop together. So how do you interpret the fact here you invest, you try, we all who do something about it grizzly don't understand you at all, and we don't understand what the problem is, but the data that they're saying is that the salary in all 5 counties is 800 kuna below the average of the rest of Croatia? So, you tried, you invested, and you did all this, and we still have that result that's why? How many years do you think it takes to invest to reach the average of Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42108	Thank you. Dear Minister Aladrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42109	Dear MPs, I thank you for asking. If we are talking about wage averages, I must remind you that the average salary in the government's term of office of Andrej Plenkovic and now the renewed mandate of the Government of Andrej Plenkovic, I am sure for a reason that the averages have increased, so the average salary has grown more than 100 kuna if I am not mistaken. The minimum wage grew parallel to 754 kuna in the same period. I agree with you that the area of Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem that we are talking about today is lower than the rest, so the pay averages are lower than the rest of Croatia. But what's trend is an increase in wages. What's trend is increasing employment even in spite of Covid's crisis and these results, unfortunately for us, absolutely no one can deny it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42110	The next replica is the respected representative Vlasic Iljkic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42111	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministers, you spoke of support in education for children with difficulties and these support stands. However, no one has ever hired these children since they graduated from school. No project has hired or will hire that child and that parent and that child will remain excluded forever, socially excluded. Then you went on to talk about social care users. So in 2016 you promised 20 homes to build, increase capacity by 2000 users. You didn't open any homes. You were recently visiting an adult home in Leskovica, talking about investment. The SDP government is the one who absolutely renovated, invested, made a miracle out of that home to go back to the history of that home as it looked during your government, as it looked during the SDP and talk about potential expansions of potentials and investments in those homes.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42112	Dear Minister Aladrovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42113	Dear MPs, thank you, too. So, if I'm talking about accommodation facilities, what we put into the pre-election program, which is a thousand and a half new places in homes for older and powerless and in different forms of care, we're going to fill that result. If at this very minute of the night you must know some exclusive. Yes, I was in Ljeskovica, and I arranged with the principal to go into a project to expand that home, and we will expand our home, given that there are waiting lists for at least 100 more users. It will be a contribution from this government in the context of social care. And if you're talking about social exclusion in the correlation with the Slavonia project, which is a topic today through the Slavonia project from the social exclusion domain, is invested a billion and 385 million kuna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42114	The next is the replica of the respected representative Saric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42115	Dear Minister, I am giving full support to this report of yours, and I would like to emphasise and give little importance to this project, "Require" which here insists on disdaining opposition. So 3300 women employed, 700 million kuna, 20,000 users in my small town of Island in Vukovar-Srijem County, in our Eastern Slavonia, which we have been talking about today and all night. It looks like this to you. 80 women employed who did not work 7 million kunas and more importantly I would say the most important 450 users in this project. There is no older person in my small town of the island, a third-aged person who is not cared for, and I also believe that we have managed to do so in all the municipalities, the cities where this project is being implemented. So, one of the best projects and these are the reactions of women working in this project, and in particular the user is exactly the project "Wish". Well done.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42116	Thank you. Dear Minister Aladrovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42117	Dear Representative Saric, I thank you for the question, I thank you for the finding that we are constantly trying to affirm in public and I believe in the good part of the public and we succeed. The project "Wish" as such is designed with a goal of three, in fact with three different goals that I have mentioned earlier, but I will mention them once more for those who may not have adopted them until the end. So, employment, education and social inclusion. When we look at the entire project "Wish" at the level of the Republic of Croatia, I'm talking about a billion and 600 million kuna at the moment, I'm talking about more than 7,000 employees of women, hardly employed, and we're talking about more than 35,000 users. These are all benefits for those heavily employed groups, they are all benefits for those users who are in need of such a project and I am sure that we will welcome this project with equal satisfaction in the next financial perspective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42118	The next replica of the respected representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42119	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. You boast about the number of new employees, and I ask you what the structure of these employees is. How many of them are employed in the private sector, how much is added value, how much is employed in the state sector? Here in Osijek-Baranja County, your county is the largest individual employer who has been hiring for the past few years. There you are, Mayor Anusic, making an effort. On the other hand, when you talk about projects for children with developmental difficulties, social exclusion, etc. The argument we put so much money into it. It's not an argument to me if these children are less socially excluded, whether they've got a job, whether they've improved their living conditions. And in Slavonia, you can get a job, wait for someone to die, so you will get a job or wait until Mayor Anusic announces the competition, you have a HDZ membership card. That's how you hire ministers, that's our reality, not billions that don't mean anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42120	Minister Aladrovic's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42121	I thank Representative Hajdukovic for asking too. If you are looking at the employment structure in the last four years then you can see by different sectors what employment trends were like. I can speak at the level of the entire system that from trends, from industries where the number of employees such as construction, such as the processing industry, such as the IT sector, is growing, it's about private companies, it's about the private sector. And you can't deny it because simply the data is there's a very clear indicator. When we talk about the domain of social exclusion, I cannot agree with you that it amounts to the figures that we convert into kunas are not talking about whether social exclusion has been reduced. And if you're looking at the indicators of the movement of poverty, if you're looking at indicators of the movement of people in severe material deprivement, we have a decline in that, which means that the standard of these people is better. Could it be even better, that it certainly can and will be during the HDZ government.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42122	Thank you very much. Thank you, Minister. The next individual debate will be respected representatives of Anka Mrak-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42123	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honored Minister and Minister, colleagues and colleagues. So it's no surprise, this Assembly meeting is characterized by the fact that it's a somewhat opposition proposal then it's usually the third item of the agenda when the first two are very interesting and the earliest we come to the debate at 8 or 9 p.m. And we don't mind, if we go eight and nine, we sit there, debate and debate until one of us has something to say and we use the replicas and everything else and it's just like that. So something ends at one, something in two, something in three, and something at four in the morning, if you decide to put it so on the agenda, it won't bother us in the debate. When it comes to the project Slavna, Baranja and Srijem, I could simply call it a marketing trick to show how the government cares about Slavonia. Because the project as such does not exist, there is neither a programme nor a strategy which would be more appropriate for a set of projects of private and public which are financed from different sources and with the same strategic general or long-term objective. It is about projects funded by the European Structural and Investment Funds with national mandatory co-financing through competition open throughout the Republic of Croatia. In the beginning the project tables published on the web pages of the Ministry of Regional Development and the EU Funds included projects agreed in implementation before the start of the so-called "regional development" The project Slavonia, after a little look at the ministry's tables, is cleaned up and today the list of projects is still on the list before the mandate of the previous HDZ government and partners, and even before the start of the project Slavonia. All of those tables were agreed and financed without occasional meetings, etc. advice for Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem and which is one of the purposes of this marketing move, and it is occasionally to go to Slavonia and show how something is done for the end. The purpose of this one project should be the following. Equal regional development, demographic recovery and the quality of life in Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem. And what it looks like in reality I'm going to read you a few data, which are available, which are from our National Statistics Office. In the period from 2008 to 2017, a council for Slavonia 5 Slavonia counties was established in March 2017, in which it traditionally fell by 89,342 inhabitants, which by a negative natural increase and by emigrating. That's a fact. And since the start of implementation, so-called The project Slavonia by the end of 2019 moved 37,984 residents to the same 5 counties according to data from the State Statistics Institute, and according to the 2011 list, these are some Vinkovci with a few other surrounding settlements. And that's a fact. He's moving out of Slavonia. There's that number of people less frightening. It's scary when you see the time when it happened. So get into something that you call a project, try to really show it like that, so you go in there, and you parade, and then you meet up and everything on TV in the diary looks great, and now it's been there so someone calls out what's been done, so someone boasts and it really looks like a nice packaged product. And then you get to reality, that's where people go and that's not the point we're going to be now, you're going to brag about projects we're going to attack this project, reality shows the fact. If those living in that space didn't recognize that there's a project that will give them a better life, better conditions, then it's a reality. And they didn't recognize it because they left that space because they wouldn't live there. And we can make sure what you want, when No people, no lives and no projects. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42124	We've got one replica of the esteemed representative of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42125	Thank you. My colleague, Mr. Tarritash, you say there's no vision, there's no plan for that so-called. The project Slavonia, Baranja and Srem, so it doesn't surprise me at all. We left them with operational programmes in 2014; they had to implement them and withdraw funds. In 5 years, only 40% were paid in 5 years. Now we'll see their skills in programming and implementation, and we'll see about that. The national development strategy was late, failed to define 3 strategic projects for Slavonia, but therefore knows that, let's say, each county will be an integrated centre, a youth centre. And on the other hand, the only thing she's defined is that we need to bring in another 67 sub-documents to go into some kind of implementation. The Draft's ESF operational programs, the ERDF has nothing, zero, zero, zero, incompetence, but a public story just like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42126	Thank you very much. The answer of the esteemed representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42127	So, this one, I'm going to go on about the last words you said, and that one ability to show that it's done, that one parade, big words, big promises, straight five. We don't have anything to add or take away, but reality is different. When this great earthquake occurred that was in the area of Banovina, then, of course, I was intuitively saying something that unfortunately proves to be so. Age will die, young people will go and you won't even have to build houses in the area of Banovina, you won't need to write because you won't have anyone. Equally these frightening figures, so my people when you say the number about moving out of 5 Slavonian counties a city the size of Vinkovci along with all the settlements that they are It's scary and it's a topic of discussion. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42128	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be respected MP Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42129	Thank you, Vice President. The project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem was launched to secure funding from European funds, initially around 2 and a half billion euros for projects in 5 Slavonian counties. For years, the European Union has been financing projects that need help to catch up with developed parts of the Union with less developed parts of the Member States. Slavonia and Baranja are exactly like that. But what are really the effects on the Slavonian-Baranja economy after nearly 4 years of the project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijema? All relevant indicators indicate that during the period from 2016 to 2019 no significant effects from the Slavonia project have occurred on the possibly faster growth of Slavonian counties compared to more developed ones. Did young people stay in their town or village because of such a project? Have new jobs opened up, built a new infrastructure that's in the community service? I'll give you some examples of Slavonic villages. In the Soviet Valley of Coughlin City time, it's as if it's stopped. The houses are abandoned, and the land is rooted. The 50 inhabitants still resist the challenges of leaving. They have no 20 to Slavonski Brod and 40 km from Požega, but the government project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem for them is unreachable, away from light years. The village of Ovcara has not had one child for more than 20 years. It's becoming more and more a weekend settlement. The children also crashed in Musić, Majar, Ratkov Dol, Free Vlast where each of these villages had at least one class each, and now the entire municipality of Lenjska Varoš has 50 pupils. It's a sign that three times more dead than born. This neighborhood is dying. It also affects very low employment. An example of the Flea. While there the spa was working, which was addressed to the source of medicinal sulfuric water, the salt pulsed with life. Many locals worked in the spa, bathers and tourists came to the place, and today neither baths nor living. The village doesn't even have a store today. The spa ended in a public auction, and the owner of the multi-annual spa became a municipality. At least some hope for those locals. A few years ago, the road was thought to have been saved by State D38 Djakovo – Požega. But some of the heavy traffic is still missing to this day. That road is at least 20, 30 years late, and every time I walk through there it's so in good shape that every time I lose one wheel. The whole area is traffic-insulated, demographically devastationed and long forgotten, so I ask you now will this project of Slavonia, Baranja and Srijema solve the problems of the end of Croatia? No, and poor economic demographic and social trends will continue. See, this is HDZ's system policy towards the east of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42130	The next debate will be a respected representative of Pera Cosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42131	Thank you. Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Today we have a debate which is clear that it will end with the refusal of the Interpelation on the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on how to allocate and make available European funds under the project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem for a very simple reason, because the project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem is the best project for the region of Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem since the creation of the Croatian state. 25 years since our Croatian independence, Slavonia has gone through a series of difficulties in the collapse of businesses, production, agriculture, war, reintegration, mass emigration. For the fourth century we were last on the list of priorities and now that it is really for the first time in Croatia's sovereign history, Slavonia is put in the priority of the interest of the Croatian government now it is for some at the time of this election campaign that bothers some. Now that praise is a valuable project to bring life back to Slavonia is suddenly a bad, unnecessary, unwanted, some PR project. At the time of the election campaign, individuals are now trying to blacken both old and new European money-funded projects in Slavonia. They are trying to give a negative sound to what is the wheel of positive change in the devastated Slavonia. Through some personal political experience they can conclude that opposition, but here are especially bitter colleagues from the Social Democratic Party cannot regret because they have not launched such a significant project, because they have not put Slavonia in priority of their own interests but as social Democrats whose social equality is one of the main priorities they have made to make Slavonia and Baranja and Srijem literally twice as rich overnight. But unfortunately only on paper, because Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem have placed in the NUC2 region together with Zagreb, northern Croatia, making these regions significantly uncompetitive for potential investors, and domestic businessmen are already tormented by all the difficulties and neglects they have denied for true support, twice the support they should have by the criteria of development of the European Union, the European regions should have. How important this project best says that 1,86 billion were agreed on grants for 974 projects by the end of February, and already paid about 930 million kuna. These funds are invested in the revitalisation of agriculture, the promotion of entrepreneurship, the restoration of transport and municipal infrastructure, health care, education, ecology, the restoration of cultural heritage with everything that brings life back to our Slavonia. All resources granted and paid to users were implemented transparently through public tenders with clearly defined selection criteria under the conditions of acceptance of project applicants and the list of eligible projects, and competitions were preceded by the usual consultation procedure with the interested public and all regarding European projects were verified by various independent controls. However, here it seems that the opposition is, in fact, the biggest problem is that here are some sympathisers, some members of the Croatian Democratic Community, who have gained the right to encourage, support or to realise... co-finance EU funds. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But here I'm asking you here especially the ones from Slavonia who know these people, that is, if we had a little peek at these 21219 agreed projects we would surely have found a lot of individuals who are members of some other parties, some groups or who have relatives either today to say or who were before government officials. The promoter himself said that this is not, in essence, the most important thing, but here I will repeat what is important to me, and I am convinced that it does not matter, it is not possible or could be a violation of the law, that all these projects have clearly defined criteria and checks that prevent the violation of our national, European laws. If it was, we know we have four degrees of control. And those who may have committed some violations will have to pay that money back. And that is why I reject the SDP's proposed interpretation of the work of the Croatian government.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42132	Thank you. We have a few replicas. Stay here. She's the first respected representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42133	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So from the beginning of the project to the end of 2019, from five counties according to data from the State Statistics Institute, 37984 residents moved out. So, about a Vinkovci with a couple of surrounding settlements. If 10 people had moved out, I would have understood, if 100 had moved out, I would have understood 1,000. But since these 37984 residents didn't recognize this project, they didn't recognize the possibility of staying, they didn't recognize that there, that they would be able to work in the area, that flowers would actually flourish there. What's the problem? How they didn't recognize it, and they left. What was that problem about these people leaving? Not the rest of us living here. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42134	Thank you. Dear Representative Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42135	What was the problem? So the minister said that trends turned into Slavonia in these five municipalities in Brod-Posavina County have recently been employed by more than 8,000 new workers, so trends have been launched. It's a project that just started. Today you were saying that it wasn't withdrawn I don't know any more than 40, whether 50% of the funds. We have three years left to complete the projects. You understand yourself well in construction and all the other things that three years are quite enough to complete certain projects and I believe that these trends will already go up, more uphill than it is now and that people will stay and stay no longer just because of the pandemic and the opportunities that change through both wages and all that Slavonia offers. But if I were to say to oppose everything that a government does for Slavonia, it certainly wouldn't be a good picture and a good thing to say for you people who want to stay in Slavonia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42136	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Saric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42137	Dear counterpart Cosic, I agree with your claim that the opposition is doing this for the sake of the election. It's just the best time, we're in an election campaign, there's a candidate for mayors, mayors, mayors. The theme's great. They're HDZ, my colleagues. I'm not interrupting. You're Vice President of the Parliament. Hold that level. Please! And please come back to me these five seconds that my colleague took from me! So it's time for a choice. Of course you're using this, of course you're attacking that HDZ are criminals and thieves. I'll repeat what I said when he wasn't in the hall. I suggest that I initiate a new interpretation in which he will process these 20,000 objects so that we can talk about others as well. And to you, colleagues Mrak-Taritash, you keep mentioning my Vinkovci and Slavonia, you should respect the fact that in Vinkovci and in that space, the Homeland War took place. All the problems we've had and needs that you know very well. [[Thank you very much. Thanks, buddy.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42138	Thank you, fellow Charic. Do not speak longer than predicted The breach of the Rules of Procedure has been brought up by a respected representative of Kisivat. [[/Intruder Saric: A colleague took my five seconds. Seven.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42139	Col. Saric injured Article 235. Who are you replicating to? A gentleman who has an argument or a colleague of Hajdukovic or Mrak-Taritash?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42140	Dear MPs, if I were to judge your club that way, it wouldn't even be here in the hall anymore. Therefore, you are being warned because you have abused the institution's breach of the Rules of Procedure. A reply to the replica of the respected representative, Cosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42141	So here's the good you've noticed, I've said this is what I'm going to say in the pre-election time and, of course, a picture of the work or work of the SDP both in the government and Slavonia and everything else needs to be fixed. It's a good thing the opposition has the right to do it, but I'm this kind of disenfranchisement of what the government is doing for Slavonia the whole project, so 11 times a walk as some say through Slavonia the government has provided a quarter of the funds. That's right. They are no new means, no special, but this very legislative framework established by the government, the previous government for this period of 2014-2015 did not give Slavonia the opportunity to withdraw those funds. The money was simply to be provided, taken care of and encouraged by the economic and municipalities to withdraw those funds. And that's, that's basically the essence of the Slavonia project.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42142	The next replica is the esteemed representative of the Voter. Injury of the Rules of Procedures who raised, the honourable representative of Opačak Bilic, please. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42143	Let me just look back at my colleague Saric's exposure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42144	You can't refer to something you don't refer to the day after tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42145	On this side of the pay phone, no one is a candidate for either the mayor, the mayor, or the mayor.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42146	Or the day before yesterday. You're getting a warning. Let's finally read the Rules of Procedure I ask you nicely so you will see that you cannot now refer to something that was wrong or wrong about the breach of the Rules of Procedure that happened before. So you could think of something that was the day before yesterday. The Republic has a respected voter's representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42147	Thank you very much. Dear fellow I would just like you to explain to me that for the first time in the history of Slavonia you put it among the priorities if we took into account that the ITU mechanism in Osijek and all the projects within it would have happened, the agglomeration project in Osijek would have happened, the cultural heritage project would have happened without a council session and without the cost of promotion of the non-existent project that you named the PR project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem because an entrepreneur who appeared on the ICT or farmer at 411 did not get a single point because he came from 5 counties but simply because he was coming to see the development of the area in which he invested. That's why I don't understand how it, I mean it belongs to the Slavons, you understand as well as to other regions, those 2.5 billion Euros belong to Slavonia as well as to all the other regions, just because you gave the title of this PR project to Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem, and now you show that you gave something extra, and you didn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42148	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42149	So in the last answer, I just pointed out this part of it means a reaction to an adequate framework that the government, the SDP government has set through NUTS 2 regions where Slavonia has placed together with rich regions and simply Slavonia and people from Slavonia, the Slavonia municipalities, units of local self-government with poor and less fiscal capacity, with fewer prepared projects they could not compete with the developed City of Zagreb, northern Croatia and other regions that were developed and prepared with greater potential fiscal and simply wanted to ensure that so much funds and remains of Slavonia that they were withdrawn and that they were led to this care and half of the government 11 times in Slavonia, they were concerned, they talked about, promoted certain projects and that they cared about Slavonia through the project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem. And everyone else who has withdrawn their funds can still withdraw.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42150	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed MP Opačak Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42151	So here we agree that an important indicator of the success of this project is the real use of European funds under the Slavonia project compared to the rest of Croatia. So there is no difference that would indicate the specific results of the government's engagement in Slavonia because we hear here about billions, millions, but what they are worth to us if the people of this project do not stay in eastern Croatia, if the economy is not developing and citizens' life problems are not being solved. However, through the operational programme The effective human potential mentioned by Minister Aladrovic it is evident that the use below the average of the rest of Croatia is 43 versus 46%, therefore it is not obvious that Slavonia is given equal attention, let alone greater.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42152	Dear Representative Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42153	Well, as far as I've seen today's reports and what the ministers and colleagues have been saying, these parliamentary deputies are saying that there's more than 90% use or agreement somewhere right now. The usability is about 50%, so I think it's a good thing that this EUR 2.5 billion framework has been brought to an end as far as this deal is concerned and that these money will remain in Slavonia, that these projects will be implemented. I said for another 3 years there is time for these projects to be completed and I am sure that the trends that have been launched in Slavonia will be accelerated, that Slavonia will be what should be and every region in Croatia means developed, that people remain, that they have a decent life and that they live well.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42154	The next is the replica of the esteemed representative Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42155	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague of the last few days in public space, and today here in the assembly we hear a lot of criticism about the project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem. We know why we are even discussing this topic today, of course, because of the inadequately set frameworks during the planning of the European perspective of 2014-2020. In your discussion, you presented information for the Ship-Posavina County or for the contract of funds and you said that 1.74 billion kuna was agreed, over 933 million kuna was paid. How much did these funds help recover our Ship-Posavina County?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42156	Dear Representative Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42157	Well, surely this investment of a billion and 860 million kuna would help much more developed counties than the Brod-Posavina County, which is unfortunately here or fortunately located in that beautiful region of Slavonia, but it has long been neglected and is one of the poorest Croatian regions. It's paid off I said over 930 million kuna. These are large funds for businessmen, Slavonic businessmen who work there and certainly one big means to improve standards, lives. We know that 120 million kuna money was invested in the hospital itself to improve health care conditions in Gradiška 80% of all schools were restored, energy-renovated so that much improved one quality, one of this general quality of housing and life in Brod-Posavina County.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42158	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the promoter, the respected representative Sabina Vosovac will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42159	Thank you very much. First and foremost, when we talk about the timing of this debate or the planting that this debate is deliberately potential in front of the local elections, see we sent this Interpelation to the Croatian Parliament in early December. Who defended the President of the Croatian Parliament from putting this agenda on the agenda whenever it suits you, even in some morning time to show the Croatian public all the great successes in Slavonia and Baranja that you brought them through this project? We, when the conditions were met to impose this topic, and you know that it must be at least 100 days past the Rules of Procedure that the topic is included in the agenda so that we can discuss it on the tide, when we saw that you have no intention of discussing and boasting about your achievements before the local elections, it became clear to us that these are not actually achievements, but the fallouts, so we decided to talk about this topic. We reached out to the business provision to collect the signatures and put this item on the agenda or to bind the President of the Croatian Parliament that we must discuss it within 8 days. So we're here today discussing this at this time because you asked for it, because you wanted to hide all your great achievements from the Croatian public, so we're discussing here now at midnight and 54. When we talk constantly about this mantra about these NUC regions Domagoj has already said several times why not even the idea of changing the administrative boundaries of the City of Zagreb to meet those formal criteria that Slavonia would not be in the same category because of the shortness of time and complexity of the problem, it resulted in us giving up this idea and going to two regions. But don't present it now in a way that got everything in the water because of it. When we talk about NUC and the criteria of two regions, we're talking about only one small, small part of these 2.5 billion. It is only about reducing the range of state aid or only for economic operators. No one left Slavons without support. They still had 25% for larger businesses, 35% for medium and 45% for smaller depending on the level of investment. Okay, 10% bigger, they had the Adriatic region, but you can't say that someone left those people hanging and gave nothing. If we translate it into real numbers now and look at what it would look like and how many Slavons are cut off, I've already said 25 million kuna. Well, that's nothing compared to what you pulled into your pockets through the staged competitions of HDZ powers and taking money meant for Slavs and Slavs. Instead of apologizing, covering your ears and not opening that topic, you honor us for failing to do something under these circumstances, and in this way I have already told you to explain to your candidate for mayor Filipović, agree with him because he boasts of the achievements and withdrawal of funds from the European Union funds in Zagreb. Explain to him that Zagreb was not in the region at all that there would be no funding in the past 7 years or 5 for 85 thousand entrepreneurs in Zagreb, and there would be no more in the next 7 years, because what they now have as a separate region would use funds from the European Union just because they entered as NUC region 2013. And those ministers certainly know well, and some of you may not know but... It doesn't justify you. [[You don't understand.]] So less than 30 projects are agreed under regional aid rules and the share of grants ranges between 35 per cent and 45 per cent. So, when the entities that have received are excluded... support for less than 200 000 euros has no restrictions on the share, research and development without restrictions when energy efficiency is excluded which is without limitation means somewhere around 250 million kuna of total investments in which support is limited to 25, 35 or 45% depending on the size of entrepreneurs of total support in these projects are about 100 million kuna and that is what I said. [[You don't understand.]] If we were to speculate on the loss for Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem based NUS classification from 2013 it is 10... points of regional support or a total of 25 million kuna sapiens watch. [[You don't understand.]] We apologize for that, but if you'll excuse me for all the abuse of those huge millions and millions of funds you've set up for your gods, relatives, sisters, brothers, not to speak to the HDZ donors you've promoted at the Ministry of Agriculture. Before the election, they donate 15, 20, 25 thousand kuna, after the election they become chiefs.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42160	Thank you very much. Stay here for a moment. We have one breach of the Rules of Procedure first. In which the Rules of Procedure was injured, the Honorable Representative Radic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42161	Rules of Procedure 238. A colleague constantly insults us HDZ representatives that we are something, quote: "we have suffered". Dear colleagues from here, as far as I know, no one pulled anything. If you have any evidence or anything, show me. And as for the fight for Slavonia, I don't know what the SDP did for Slavonia? Can you tell me a little bit about Corridor 5C or what you did for Slavonia? I'll just remind you... mandate in the last HDZ parliamentary elections 8, SDP 3. Thank you. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42162	Thank you very much. If you'd stayed on the first thing you said, I'd have respected the breach of the Rules of Procedure. This was no more, so you'll get a reminder. We have two replicas. She is one of Cosic's respected representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42163	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-Presidents of the Croatian Assembly that claim twice that it could not be deployed differently by the NUC2 region... It does not stand certain even though the population is smaller and in Slavonia everything, this government has done it and has done it because it wanted to do it. [[You don't understand.]] She wanted to encourage Slavonia's development. You put it in one NUC region. Okay, so Zagreb gets something, but Zagreb has other funds. The cohesion fund used illegally in Zagreb, if we look at it, means Zagreb is more developed than European regions, and it uses 66% and Slavonia has risen by 30%. So it's not good, but I don't know where you calculated that it's 25 million kunas, because Slavonia was prevented, or it was impossible for other businessmen, investors, because it would be more tempting, it would have 50% support, not 25 like in Zagreb, and then these factories They are building around Zagreb, after Zagorje, no one has come to Slavonia, because the support is what it is for all of Croatia... [[Thank you, the answer of the respected representative... thank you./]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42164	Dear representative of the Voice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42165	Not to repeat everything I have told you, listen to the home debate and you will see what I have tried to explain to you, that it is one, a mini, a mini share and no one has left these people without support, they still had 25, 35, 45, as well as the entire continental Croatia. Now they will, however, not yet, because the map, the extended value of the map of the projects is actually up until the end of 2021, Slavonia will have 50%, 60% and 70%, which looks really good on the first hand, but behind is one fact that you are in Slavonia in the meantime in GDP it has fallen so much that it has fallen another category below. It's your project, Slavonia, you understand. People will now get greater support based on a new classification of regions, but unfortunately, compared to several years ago, GDP still went down. And that's your achievement.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42166	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Blažević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42167	Thank you very much Vice President, here I am not going to talk about regions then, I see that you are upset, and I would not like to continue at that very level, but I must say that it really hurts me when you mention guessing, crime and patience, I do not know in Croatian what it means and you tell the HDZ donors. I have to ask you, I've looked at the lists, they're publicly available, are you sure that on those lists, so the persons, the companies that have received any European funds, there's no SDP donor with an opportunity of 5 million kuna of grants.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42168	Dear representative of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42169	I don't know, I haven't explored, it's not my job to investigate, but it's my job to question, so when you have the knowledge, you'll also make them into one interpretation, we'll be happy to discuss Slavonia, Baranja and Srem again. But what I do know is that let's say HDZ donors at the Ministry of Agriculture are making very fast progress. Does the name Mr. Fak, Touchesh, Majdak mean I'll rule out Majdak, he was an official before the donation. Perhaps the Minister of Agriculture can help you answer these questions, donations range between 15 and 35 thousand kunas, gentlemen donate nicely to HDZ and then from the officials of the Ministry of Agriculture to the post of chief, and some even water and administration, that's it for you. What's it called? It would be called corruption, but don't, I'll insult you again if I say the government is corrupt.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42170	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the Government, the Honorable Minister, Marija Vukkovic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42171	Honorable President, MPs and MPs. First I'll say there's no one here to tell us that we've put up with it, it's one shame, there's no evidence of it, and it's inadmissible. I will also say that the decision on NUDS 2 regions did not have to be and that it is a shame that in the same region, at NUDS 2 level put regions that are completely different, heterogeneous by demographic, social, economic, pedological, all possible criteria. It is a shame, the support was intended to reduce regional differences and it was a mistake that definitely motivated this government to correct such injustice and it is not true that in Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem without a project, a development agreement, the Council led by the Prime Minister, Andrej Plenkovic would free himself and invest this much, because the previous Government did not take care at all of the regional criteria, did not change them in a way that she had taken into account the indices of development, areas with special limitations, that she had financed through the development agreement the name of the technical documentation for preparing the project and so on. So it is the Programme, which has its legal form, structure, form, lists and accordingly according to the changed criteria. This, of course, did not prevent us from trying to finance other good projects, by torturing ourselves, by changing our programmes, by the Commission, by increasing our allocations, and by continuing to do so. Secondly, no one here boasts, unlike those who use river patience and so on, only statistical facts are presented, and we want even better and more. Further, as to the different godmothers, take a look at when, when these people you call godmothers have appeared and at what contest, you will find tenders from 2015 and school, when we are patient, school example, artificially created conditions, where alllocations for the most valuable measures of the Rural Development Programme are the most valuable investment measures according to different arrangements, by making regulations and competitions that were not in line with the Regulation of the European Council and Parliament No 702 of 2014 on support, therefore, fully uncoordinated, adopted rules and competitions, in such a way that large or small entrepreneurs were not separated, that no regional criteria were included, and thus one half of the location should be spent at first, means for investment... Speaking of patience, if anyone suspects anything, there are institutions that need to be reported, if someone suspects fund irregularities, there is OLAF, who defends you, anything can be investigated. [[You don't understand what I'm saying.]] However, I here from this pay phone can guarantee that in these 5, 6 years, no such eclectic, horrifying examples of artificial creation conditions of the country's grant without competition, I will not now be talking about sugar quotas which we also have to pay by vessels, etc., that was anyone in the story, it's enormous damage in just one year, let's just call it one year 2014. and it hasn't happened in these 5 years. As for colleagues of Tušek and Marina Faka, therefore, Tušek worked at the Agency for Payment in Agriculture and Fisheries and Rural Development, he was among those who created the Agronet system and participated in all the programmes that were then co-financed in front of the access funds, I cannot now know the details of why he was fired, however, I know that he was legally given the verdict, because it is also paid by Croatian taxpayers and as my colleague today is a state secretary, very hard and valuable, and one of those who are responsible for why, contrary to all the wrong words here and the figures we have paid, you said that we are talking about payment, and not agreement, from an opportunity 70%, you can open up the Commission pages and you will see there that the certified funds are 65%, and therefore you know that nothing is lying. When we're talking about a colleague named Marin Faku, which you would forbid him to do regularly as an employee who's been working on funds for 20 years to make some progress in the system, so there's... does not have to [[You can't hear me.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42172	Comrade Voter, you're getting a warning, the second is your warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42173	There are hundreds of them, be polite, don't get in the word it's not worthy of the Vice President of the Parliament or all the discrimination you impose...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42174	Mr. Glasovac, just a moment from the minister, my colleague, Glasovac, I am the basis of Article 240(2) of the article, giving you a reminder by taking away the words until the end of the debate on this subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42175	You won't ban them from working just because they're HDZ, you won't. You can't, it's been so long...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42176	Don't, don't make me kick you out of the gym right now. So what do you need... Comrade Voter, do I really have to kick you out of the hall? [[The speaker speaks from the bench, you can't hear.]] So shut up. You have two warnings and you've got this one. On the basis of Article 241 I give you the distance from the session. I've asked you nicely to behave. Please. It's not true, I have the correct record, I have the exact record, now I've been asking you nicely not to do what you've been doing, you've continued, so I really don't get it. [[The speaker speaks from the bench, you can't hear.]] That's not true. You had two. All right, let's go act civilized, I'm asking you nicely to leave the hall. My colleagues, based on Article 241(3), I give you the distance from the double-term session. [[The speaker speaks from the bench, you can't hear.]] You are, you know very well what you can do. Great, listen, listen to the stenogram, and you'll get it. I didn't expect you to do that. I have to admit that you do that kind of thing. It's not bias that's keeping a Rules of Procedure that, I don't know, you'd have to respect and know first. Nothing, I'll take a break now for 15 minutes, so I hope the ghosts calm down. I'll see you at 1.25. It's a meeting stop at 1:12 p.m. Dear colleagues and colleagues, here we will continue to work hopefully in a calmer atmosphere and without unnecessary excitement. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 1.25 HOURS]] The differences in opinion are normal, so there is democracy. But let's stick to parliamentaryism and democratic postulates and our Rules of Procedure. The next one will be answered by a respected minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42178	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So do you think that the fact that you left our colleague Voter from the session after one warning that no one else would tell you the truth in your face, and that's progressing in HDZ's government has a price. Because those who want to advance pay, oh excuse me, donate HDZ. But now that you're talking to a tall woman and you're giving us lessons, you know, I read a lot. And what the media is writing about is one still your colleague, a former esteemed colleague and colleague who's been mentioned quite a bit in this interpretation. I quote: "After causing a car accident in which one person has the lasting consequences of a sex scandal called lysomat, and leaving a pile of money on a bouquet at a local cemetery in Vrbovac, offering bribes to a journalist, driving a car with an unauthorized concentration of alcohol in the blood, subsidising credit interest by the county, building apartments with defence money, entitled to almost 15 million kuna support from APPR, not filling the property card, forgiving hundreds of thousands of kuna for tax, roads to the vineyards of the Plieric Powers, Tens of hectares of the country owned by the Republic of Croatia, etc. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] It's a fellow Lucic who's still your party colleague and you're protecting and then...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42179	My colleague Hajdukovic, and why are you doing this now? Why are you doing this now? Is that what you need? Now what do you want to do at the end of the whole debate circus from her? So now you're starting too? You really don't have to. Here you go, dear minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42180	Well, I'm glad to read a lot, that's always commendable. As regards the mentioned colleague, as you yourself stated in the interpretation, he received a decision on the approval of the project on the basis of the criteria approved by the Monitoring Committee in 2017 or 2018. As far as I know, the kuna hasn't been paid. As I said from all those projects that we mention 40% are agreed on by the basis of competitions from 2015 and 87 paid out by these.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42181	Thank you very much. Let's move on with the debate. Thank you, Minister. You can return to your post. The next debate will be respected MPs Maximchuk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42182	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers and ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Here's a few hours we've been discussing this interpretation, and I'd like to get back on the subject. The government of the Republic of Croatia established a Council for Slavonia, Srijem and Baranja at its meeting on 8 March 2017. The project is worth 18.75 billion kuna and is intended for the demographic revitalisation of the east of Croatia to develop and create new jobs. The project was created on an inadequately set framework during the planning of the European perspective 2014 to 2020 and went to the detriment of Slavonian counties. When it started with the five Slavonian counties project, it was among the EU's most underdeveloped regions. The rate of development was between 30% and 35% of the EU average while Zagreb was at 108%. The main objective of this project is to strengthen competitiveness and balanced regional development, reduce poverty and increase citizens' standards in these 5 Slavonian counties. The work of the council is attended by the Prime Minister, Minister of Regional Development, all five Slavonian mayors, directors of regional agencies, representatives of associations, cities and municipalities, Croatian Chamber of Commerce, Croatian Chamber of Commerce, Croatian Chamber of craftsmen, Rector of Josip Juraj Strossmayer University of Osijek and of course all MPs from the fourth and fifth constituencies. So far, 11 council sessions have been held. Sessions are held each time in another county, preferably in other cities. The project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem is one of the key projects of this government aimed at ensuring balanced regional development, and it will continue in the next multi-annual financial framework. Up until now, around 94% of the insurance funds have been contracted under the project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem. Realized projects show that European funds change Croatia, change Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem by encouraging economic development and also the quality of life for our citizens through investments in infrastructure, development of agriculture, employment and promotion of entrepreneurship. I'll look back at the data from the Ship-Posavina County. My county contracted 1.8 billion kuna. Over 933 million kunas were paid. I'll just list some projects here. 11,000 preserved jobs through the project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem. 4,000 new jobs, 3200 family-agricultural economies, 740 entrepreneurs. More than 19,000 projects were agreed, of course, with a heavy 17 and a half million kuna. Of course, not all of these projects are used by members of the HDZ, they are used by all those who have the conditions to apply for these competitions. Measures of demographic policy, investment in young people, construction or construction, or adaptation of kindergartens. Through the project "Wish" in my county through 152 million kuna, 1200 women were employed. Investment in our ship's hospital, the New York hospital, is of course big projects. Energy recovery and much more is that the project “Slavonia and Baranja and Srijem” went through. Of course we wish we weren't among undeveloped counties. Of course we wish we were richer. But I'm sure European funds change Croatia. They will change Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem, and I am sure that in one of the next discussions we will have about Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem we will have much more beautiful and correct discussions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42183	We have a few replicas. The first one is the respected representative of Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42184	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, colleague Maximchuk, here I am not coming from this area of Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem and I'm listening to the debate tonight. All of us, at the Club of the Croatian Democratic Community and our ministers on the other hand, are proposing this Interpellation listens to us being insulted that we must be ashamed, blushed, call us ugly names. I don't know if they're aware that they're not only insulting us, they're insulting all of our citizens from that area who gave their voice to the Croatian Democratic Community? Namely, they used the same rhetoric less than 10 months ago and the result was that the Croatian Democratic Union won 16 seats in these two constituencys, and those only 6. Well, I congratulate them on that and I want them to continue with the same rhetoric, and I ask you to comment on that political phenomenon in that area when it's so bad and still that same party that deceives the public gets more votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42185	Thank you. Dear representative Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42186	Thank you. Well, I'm always up for all the debates to be correct, that there are no debates under the belt, but tonight these discussions were going the wrong way. You said everything, 16 parliamentary terms in the 4th and 5th constituency said everything last year at the 7th month.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42187	The next replica is the respected representative Balic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42188	I thank the chairman. In your debate, you pointed out that the project Slavonia, Baranja, Srijem was created in response to the inadequately set framework for the even regional development of Croatia during the planning of the European financial perspective for 2014. – 2020, and all the damage to Slavonian counties that some MPs here insist on denying. So can you please tell me what this government has done to correct this injustice that has been done to Slavonian counties and all, of course, in order to improve the quality of the development perspective... Thank you. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42189	Dear representative Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42190	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, Balic, this government recognized the developmental differences and is in a new financial perspective in 2021. - 27. Croatia is divided into 4 NUC regions, with counties from the east being part of the Pannonian region, which will, of course, have a better quality development perspective in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42191	The next replica of the esteemed Glamuzine MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42192	Comrade Maximchuk, this is not necessarily directly to you, but I will repeat what counterpart Hajdukovic said. Do you think that because you've been from the session after one registered notice because we've been monitoring the records, we've thrown out a colleague of the Voice that no one else will ever come to your face again? With you progressing, there is a price in kunas at the expense of Croatian citizens, it is paid, the pardon donates to HDZ to advance in careers. And the question is why Croatia today is 7 years after the start of the financial perspective 2014. – In 2020, the last EU country to withdraw money from EU funds? It's not enough to set up funds. It's important to know how to pull them back, and in the past seven years, the Republic has only pulled a little bit more than 40% of what is available to us. We are the last in the EU to absorb funds, how will you solve this problem? Who's gonna donate you?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42193	Dear representative Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42194	Thank you very much. After the Croatian Democratic Community arrived in power after your SDP government, 9% were all agreed funds. So there would be a lot to discuss, and I said that I wanted to debate, and I will always debate positively so that the project Slavonia, Srijem and Baranja must go to the field and ask all those mayors, mayors and counties, not all the HDZs, as much as this project helped Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem. So here you go, not further on about it, and the Vice President of the Parliament runs the assembly session and he's responsible for the order and everything else in the assembly so that's my part of the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42195	The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Goran Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42196	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Minister of Regional Development and Agriculture, the Honorable Ministers, dear colleagues and colleagues. Well, I don't know, this looks more like an improvisation to me and a bad one, not an impelation. 30 parliamentary deputies signed this impelation. There are only a few of you left here. Oh, good. When it comes to the Institute Council for Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem, I think we can reason, too much talk first of all about numbers. The numbers are the only ones that remember. The numbers are exact. They're what's really important. We've been here all night listening to some Interpol talk about how someone stole something, touched it, and I really don't have any problems with it. If you know one, he also took one Croatian kuna from Croatian taxpayers and it was illegal and he went to jail. What do we as HDZ have to do with it? Absolutely nothing, nor have we ever supported them, nor have we stood behind them. But should a cow be killed for one or two? I don't think so. One steak doesn't make you do that. What has been happening in Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem for the past 4 or 5 years is certainly what shows the path to which we should go. Is that enough, can we do more, can we do better? I'm sure that's what we want. But what we have achieved through the Council for Slavonia and Baranja and Srijem is that we have achieved competitiveness, i.e. competition between mayors, mayors, mayors, in writing projects towards the European Union, from which money can be withdrawn that will not burden local budgets. Local budgets, fiscal capacity units of local self-government, small municipalities and small towns are too small to develop Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem as we speak here in the Parliament. Without European money, without money, after all, we will not create conditions and preconditions from the budget of the Republic of Croatia for what is successful Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem. That's exactly what we want to talk about. All those who come from this area, here we are, thank God in the Assembly, we see that positive things are happening. Let's not belittle all these wonderful people, chiefs, mayors who watch day and night over their units of local self-government and try to make sure that everything we're saying here, demographic restoration, every other restoration, that that's exactly what they're accomplishing in their local self-government units. Minister Tramišak, what she is doing is something that proves that a woman has knowledge, first of all knowledge, which she has not learned in political schools, but has learned through her work because she has been working intensively for 10 years and has made the entire Republic of Croatia a sighting municipality from a small Antunovac. We need people like that in the system. Okay. Vice President, they're getting it. It's not fair, this is late class... Yes, as for Domagoj Hajduković, Domagoj I expected much more from you, I also said in my replica, I expected that as a man coming from Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem you would bring here 10, 15, 20 concrete proposals, concrete solutions, concrete projects that you will all swear, here in 1.41 minutes, really put into a region that can mate with European regions. [[You can't hear it.]] But we stayed on news articles that I absolutely believe, that if they are justified, if they are justified, I don't mind, that's what I said, everyone who has stolen one kuna must answer for it, but from this impelation I really expected a lot more, with 30 signatures, with 30 people who are sovereignly ruling here in this Assembly, after all, left you and your president, he's gone, he's gone, like he's not interested in that Slavonia, Baranja and Srem at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42197	Thank you, colleague Ivanovic. We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Simic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42198	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, colleague Ivanovic. So here you are, before you were elected to the Croatian Parliament, acting as Deputy Mayor of Osijek-Baranja County, also in this period which is behind us and currently I am still acting as Deputy Mayor of the City of Nasic, along with people who have the mandate of citizens in certain local self-governments throughout our Slavonia. We have participated in the development, nomination and also the realization of many projects that we have discussed today, and I think that as our citizens knew in the parliamentary elections, this is exactly how our work will be valued and what we have promised, we will do, of course, but our wish is that we all act affirmably to make our citizens feel more comfortable and secure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42199	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42200	Thank you very much. The 11th session of the Council for Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem was held on 5 October, where Mr Domagoj and the team of 11, Ziro, Zero. One man rose on the council, the last one spoke, and not HDZ, it was about the independent mayor of Belišč, Mr Dinko Buric, who said on behalf of all the mayors there, the mayor to the Council for Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem, the project for Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem is the best thing that could happen to local self-government units. That is what Dinko Buric, who is not the HDZ's or the mayor's, says best and most clearly about the Institute of Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem, which was launched by the government of Andrej Plenkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42201	The next replica, the esteemed representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42202	Thank you, Chairman. Representative Ivanovic. You know what I'm gonna tell you? That you HDZs can really make Slavonia mate to European regions and if you really serve all the billions you've pump up in Slavonia, here on this stage, I'll be the first to move to Slavonia and then vote for you. But that's not what this is about, you're a man of empty rhetoric like what the entire HDZ is, a party of empty rhetoric. If you'd expected something from this Interpletion, we wouldn't be discussing it at fifteen to two, that's what this is about. It is a lack of rule of law, a lack of institutions that could investigate the malfeasances mentioned in this Interpellation. In this way, you treat counterpart Hajdukovic and all the opposition MPs who pointed out what the public here must hear.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42203	Thank you. Representative Ivanovic's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42204	Mrs. Oreshkovic, I am not a salon politician, I am a man who comes from a people who live in Slavonia, Baranja and Srem every day. And on Friday, I'll be back at 5:30 this morning, and at 5.20, I left this Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem. Yesterday, the minister and I visited several municipalities in the area of our county, our Slavonia, Baranja and Srijema, and I will not resort to those floscules you say here. I live this life and what I say for the Croatian Parliament speaker I really think and experience and I don't need to court any voters, voters. I'm not in any election campaign. I simply live like this, it is my life and that is why I came here to the Croatian Parliament to try at least a little or a lot to improve what is called life in Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem. But truly, truly, from the heart.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42205	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed MPs Grman Kizivat.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42206	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Ivanovic, the first thing I'm going to say is not directly to you, more to Mr. Chairman. Do you really think that because after one warning, the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament was thrown out, no one will tell you the truth and will repeat it to your face? With you progress there is a price in kunas [[This is how I'm gonna stop you right now. You already have two warnings the same.]] On the esophagus [[Intruder Reiner: You have two warnings.]] Sir, I have an argument. [[Intruder Reiner: That I do not have to give you a sentence that follows two warnings.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42207	No, no. So what do you think we can do, that we're here in the market so everyone can say what they want? It's about the subject, and it can't be polymised with the chairman when spoken in the replica. Very clear. Read it again, all together Rules of Procedure Yes, but colleagues to Ivanovic, yes. [[Intruder: Can I continue with my replica?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42208	Gentlemen, you have the truth. The price is bought in kunas. Now you've confused me. So, gentlemen, dear, you've thrown out the Vice President of the Parliament, but you're getting paid all donations to the HDZ to advance your career. And I'm going to replicate to Mr. Ivanovic one of the winners. Our policy towards the village will evict Slavonia throughout. [[Come on.]] All Slavons went to sea, because the fields can't live.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42209	Okay, let's just not sing yet. The answer of the respected representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42210	Yes, but your politics are here. You said ours. That's supposed to be SDP policy, not HDZ. But great, I like it, bravo. And I'll say something for the end. [[Let's not, let's not.]] That's what it was about, and Mrs. Oreskovic's replicated it, and Domagoj referred to it as Mrs. Vosovac. The Viennar is enrolled in the world's UNESCO immaterial cultural heritage. It is a great success of people from Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem who have succeeded as a refugee as something that is part of our identity and our lives recorded on that world list. It's really a huge achievement. And therefore, do not treat a refugee as a form that is peasant, which is simple. There's a lot to say to the beaver, a lot to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42211	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the promoter, a respected representative, Domagoj Hajdukovic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42212	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I know it's late, let's try to be a little more focused but also have the same criteria for everything. I'll start with my colleague Ivanovic. Well, you know what my colleague Ivanovic and I expected more from you. Let's just say I'd expect that even though you're a people's man, you come from the people, so I guess you're written, I guess you can read. Well, I'd expect you to have read the interpretation, because it wasn't signed by 30 but 25 MPs to begin with. So I'd expect you to read the Rules of Procedure so you know what impelation is, and that's not that we're proposing projects, but that we're discussing the object of the interpretation you must have read, so you know what the subject is. So then I expected you to have no syncope, because for the sake of Vienna, you're in Croatia, you're going to jail if you didn't know so protect immunity, some others don't. And we're not making fun of the Vienna, but we're trying first of all not to let you do a circus out of this serious subject. Well, the wheel is our own thing. I'm a Shocker too, so what does that mean that I'm supposed to be dancing around here right now? I mean, that kind of argument, unfortunately, I mean, this is a circus. On the other hand, you say Slavonia was neglected. I agree, but again in 30 years of the Croatian state I will remind you of eight years of SDP in power, 22 years of HDZ. So why were you neglecting Slavonia for 22 years? There's four of us now, so there's a Slavonia. And please don't talk about the Homeland War. The Homeland War hit us hard, devastated us. We've been rebuilding ourselves long and hard, but that's not the reason for neglect. I'll also remind you when you're talking, I didn't speak ill of anyone, at least here's a denial if I'm wrong. I didn't insult anyone that I couldn't say again about my colleagues on your side of the assembly. Your party has the power of judgment of a colleague. For what? Not for crossing red across the street, but for corruption? Well, then you're talking about European money. I wish you'd explained to us what European money is. There's no European money, my colleagues. It's Croatian money. A European money, i.e. So-called We don't have to throw European money out the window. There would be no money in the budget of our cities and municipalities, and I agree they didn't have the fiscal capacity to throw out the window. What are we gonna build a school that's gonna be empty? So it doesn't matter whose money we're building with? The more these European coins are Croatian money. So, you need to read a little bit of the first interpretation, and then the Rules of Procedure, and then maybe a counselor guide, to see which elements are available to the MPs and how you use them. Also, as far as the campaign is concerned, I see a candidate on this side, but on this one, as far as I know, no one from my colleagues is a candidate, nor am I. So don't take it down to such low campaign initiatives. We sent this at the end of last year into procedure. You could put it on the agenda whenever you wanted, we had to re-sign it, re-sign it, using your business opportunity, put this on the agenda. It's our fault you didn't put it on before, and what if this isn't such a great thing to make fun of and praise the government, why didn't we do it before noon, why were we talking about the Seed Act, which is the twilight of agriculture, I wish the Minister had been there then, you'd probably have a lot more to say. So, obviously, some things we have to repeat, repeat, repeat, repeat, so that people can understand what it's all about. Says one of your colleagues, the point of the Slavonia project is that the government has secured the money available to Slavonia. Well, the government didn't secure anything. The money was provided by local self-government units, entrepreneurs, all those who applied to funds, because there is no Slavonia Project, there is nothing for which projects from Slavonia and Baranja are privileged to someone else, that they will get more or that they will have less procedure or I don't know what. He doesn't have a colleague. So what they're going to pull is Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem are going to pull out based on the projects they're sending, and so can Zagora, and so can Dalmatia, the islands, whoever. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42213	You have several replicas. He is the first respected representative of Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42214	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It doesn't matter what time it is, that a smart man understands. Mr. Hajdukovic, I really want to pollute with you at least, we are people who come from the same neighborhood, but the facts are something we simply can't overwrite with rubber. The city of Osijek, as a city generator of development throughout Slavonia, Baranja and Srijema is in the hands of your party in 8 years, Osijek does not go backwards, Osijek is lagging behind for already small municipalities and small towns that have past it. That's what I'm talking about all the time. And how fortunate that we have a common interest in this, not to read newspaper articles, but to focus on how we will make this Osijek a centre of Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem. I know. I know. On 16 May, when Ivan Radic wins and is mayor of Osijek, then Osijek will begin to be the centre of Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42215	Thank you, thank you. Let's not talk down there. Let's not talk down there. Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42216	And now this isn't a pre-election campaign, is it? This is now, here we are a little bit mentioned, as we would say here in Zagreb. You say later understand, so did you finally get it then? I mean, I read a lot of things, not just a Croatian medium, I read Deutsche welle and Politics and Euroactive, and I don't know, For and Relations, For and Policy, but it's all nonsense to the media as far as our Prime Minister is concerned, he's out of line. And I'll tell you one more thing, in 5 Slavonian counties, in all HDZ is in power, in the vast majority of municipalities and cities are in power. So we see these development congestiones, and that is why Slavonia is probably the most developed region of Croatia, so we have to have a special project of Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem. Smart enough, or as the old Latina would say, sapiens watch, in this late hour.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42217	The next replica of the esteemed representative of the Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42218	Thank you very much. Here's dear colleague Hajdukovic, we're talking about seriousness, and then you're now being exposed by your SDP colleague, so much for seriousness. I am sorry that we did not go on this topic based on the fact that I started with the number of employees in Vukovar 2016 December and December 2020. And then you wonder why the SDP was only twice in power and HDZ was left behind. Ha, simply because the citizens of the Republic of Croatia decide who will be in power and citizens of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. Slavons, the Baranians have also decided this time in parliamentary elections a huge difference, a record difference. I think that you should deal with why the SDP is failing in Slavonia and after the election, there will be no more, and what we're saying about Slavonia, Baranja and Srem today we heard all the exact data and I think we should all look forward to the success we're doing together.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42219	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42220	A colleague, speaking of political parties. I didn't even notice you guys were doing great. I heard that some of the heads of state institutions, mayors, are leaving HDZ anyway, so surely because they could have come true in it or because they saw that the policies you're leading were good. The number of employees, as I said to the minister, is a much more important structure of employees, where they are employed, if they are employed by the state administration, there is nothing of it, except that we have a few salaries more, unfortunately, no added value. And finally, yes, the citizens decide, the citizens decide the colleague, and history judges, history will judge, and then we will see who will be able to look in the mirror, who will be able to wait for that court of history.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42221	The next replica of the respected representative Radic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42222	Dear Vice President, dear colleague Hajdukovic. 10 days ago, the construction of the Regional Fruit and Vegetable Distribution Centre, which is a strategic project of Osijek-Baranja County, was worth over 101 million kuna. In particular, it is a project that has been discussed for 20 years, after the construction is completed it will completely change the functioning, work, quality and support of our fruit and vegetable producers, and especially our small producers who, because of the problems of product storage, competition and plasma storage, have had problems with selling, not only have they not sold, but have unfortunately even had to destroy them. You say that. You said, marketing, PR, I wouldn't agree.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42223	Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42224	Thank you. Dear fellow Radic, I agree with you absolutely. And to say the PR project in the end, but also this is a good project, and I'm not telling you, the point of this Interpol is that everything that goes wrong in Slavonia. This is a really good project. You said yourself how long we've been waiting for him. I've been talking about him since I was in politics. Why didn't it come true? Well, now neither is it important nor is it to be pollemized. Thank God we're gonna get it. Good project. Not all projects are bad. It is not even the point of this Interpletion, but to point out that there are indications, indications that there could be conflicts of interest here, that there could be no metric sharing of European money i.e. Our money and that's what we're worried about, and that's not the point of saying it's all bad cobwebs. It's not all bad.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42225	The next individual debate will be respected representatives of Ankica Zmajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42226	Vice-President, distinguished ministers, respected ministers, colleagues and colleagues. The project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem created for us preconditions for economic development, for creating jobs or reducing unemployment and demographic recovery in the east of Croatia. Here I will speak from personal experience as the head of a Slavonian municipality in Brod-Posavina County and which we are involved in the project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem. I would like, from my perspective, to quote in the Interpellation to kill or reject projects that have been achieved and implemented, for example. First, the operational programme, specificity and cohesion. Vrpolje municipality is one of the applicants for a cultural heritage project, the construction of an eco-ethical house in Vrpolje worth 8 million 150 thousand kuna, which guarantees us the co-financing of grants of 6 and a half million kuna or 85%. The project will contribute to renewed cultural and historical heritage, raised standards and quality and cultural and tourism content, availability of services to local products, increased tourism visibility and certainly economic development and employment. The next operational programme is effective human potential. The program wants to hire women. Total for this programme is agreed in the Republic of Croatia over 586 million kuna, and of which is more than 308 million kuna for these 5 Slavonian counties. The Municipality of Vrpolje reported the project Zaželi za Vrpolje, which was approved and agreed over a million kunas on a project that employs 11 women. Through... The Slavonian plain, based in Vrpolje, was arranged for about 10 million kunas where we hired 80 women. [[You don't understand.]] Then, the Rural Development Programme, we came forward with a 721 investment in the construction of water supply and sewerage for the construction of a water network where we were granted over 2 million and 300 thousand kuna. Measure 722 investment in construction of unclassified roads, project reconstruction of unclassified roads worth over a million kunas. Measure 741 investment in the launch, improvement or expansion of local basic services for rural population for the project of reconstruction of hiking trails where we are granted over a million 230 thousand kunas. We have other projects waiting for us to make decisions or negotiate or make public calls. These are all multimillion-dollar amounts for the value of projects that we as units of local self-government could not finance if it wasn't funds from European funds and projects Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem which we had priorities and priorities in operational programmes. The projects were approved on the basis of a public call or invitation to tender according to criteria and conditions, rather than political membership, as individual representatives repeatedly highlight and emphasise. I must say, we would have been even more successful in the projects if it were those who programmed the period 2014. – In 2020 it was better done and thought of an equal development of all parts of Croatia. If all the governments of the Republic of Croatia had previously heard of Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem, it would not be necessary to set up a Council for Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem and the project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem. In 2016, however, the government of the Republic of Croatia headed by Andrej Plenkovic began to do so. It is often said here in the assembly that we on the right side of the assembly praise the government. I don't have anyone to brag about or waste. This is what the facts and figures I presented and said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42227	Thank you very much. The next debate will be the respected representative of Marko Pavic. Here you go. Here's what we're going to do is we're going to take a short break of a minute because there's some kind of mistake they're telling me with the server so we don't deny you or the next speakers the time or anything. We all have to be patient. Okay, here's what's gonna help us now. Since it's late, if it's okay with you, we can go ahead and ask it to fit differently, it won't show up here, but it won't waste too much time. If you all agree? Okay? Well, here you are, dear representative Pavić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42228	Thank you very much. Here is the fact that there have been a lot of talks on the "Law" programme and almost 50% of the "Learn" programme is used in Slavonian counties, i.e. 6300 women, around 3300 are employed in Slavonian counties. I wanted to look back a little on the program "Learn" as it came into existence and just what value it has for Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem. Minister Aladrovic talked a lot about it, I might talk a little bit and processically. Minister Ćorić was then, he bought a team that included me personally, State Secretary Katarina Ivanković Knezevic, director of HZZO Lončar with a deputy, Assistant Rajcic, Commissioner Mekic. So, one team of people who's starting to come up with a project. And we came up with a project of 300 million kuna that grew to a billion kuna in the phase of one Minister Aladrovic continued it, innovated it, added another 600 million kuna and today out of these billions and 600 million kunas, 700 million kuna ended up in Slavonia. I would also like to use and congratulate today my former Secretary of State Katarina Ivanković Knezevic, Director for Social Affairs in the EU, or in the European Commission. I would like to congratulate the Vice-Presidents of the Commission, Dubravki Shuci, and her, that they have carried out today, that is, yesterday's EU strategy on children's rights and a proposal for a guarantee for children, i.e.... who give 25% of children who are at risk of social exclusion a guarantee of education, health education, warm meals and just to ensure that they do not enter the threat of poverty. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So perhaps the answer to the SDP colleagues that here are constantly questioning how much social inclusion is really social inclusion, and people who have worked on Wish today are leading to the social inclusion of the entire EU. Well, I guess they did something right when they got those responsibilities in the European Commission. How did the project go? Well, just so we've seen it, I'm very sorry that the colleagues from the SDP talk about the project that way. The project has started because we have just seen women over 50 years of lower qualifications and unemployed people stay on welfare for the rest of their lives. No one wants to hire them, they're not attractive on the labour market at all. And we set out with what we can provide for them and primarily restore dignity, dignity of work, right to work. We know that this is also one of the human rights defined by the UN declarations. We put them together to provide care for our senior citizens. We heard here from the island city, or other municipalities and cities of Slavonia, that there are practically no older people who have not received deinstitutionalisation, which is also the EU strategy that we are going into deinstitutionalisation. In order to ensure the sustainability of the project, and that is what I hear is complaining on the left hand side, we have provided these women with a 100-euro voucher for education. And now you have on the one hand that we've given women their dignity, that we've given them thousands of euros for qualifications, that we've secured jobs for three, slightly less than 3.5 thousand women in Slavonia, 20 thousand old citizens have help. These women received a thousand euros in qualifications, and I am particularly proud that we have added bicycles, just for Slavonia, straight Slavonia, so that they can visit users with bicycles. We launched the project from Imotski, symbolically, or Dalmatinska Zagora, congratulating and mayor Boban, that it was just Split-Dalmatia County that one of the biggest users and 700 million kuna went to Slavonia. So I am particularly saddened by my colleagues from the SDP to underestimate these women and this dignity that we have returned to them with the project and that there is no mayor, Commissioner, there is no place in Croatia where we do not get commendation that we have just succeeded in social integration and that such projects wish to be implemented by other countries as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42229	Thank you very much. Next debate, please. What? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42230	I thank the chairman, I demand a break on behalf of the SDP Club, that we consult a little bit on further work, since working conditions do not exist, we suggest that it continue tomorrow morning, without anyone additional, no one can even sign up anymore, unless there are many people left, I don't think it's a major disturbance of the agenda for tomorrow, but in this way we don't want to keep working.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42231	Look, I don't see why we shouldn't keep working. We're going to measure everything exactly, we've been working until this system is normally introduced just like that, so I don't see why we should interrupt now, and then, I don't know, leave these few discussions and people, in fact we're kind of depressed about it. Everyone else had a chance, and some wouldn't have a chance then. No, I don't think it would be fair to deny, I don't know, fellow Matuli to speak. [[The speaker speaks from the bench, you can't hear.]] I think we can keep going and there's no problem... So I'm saying, we can measure time without any problems and end it, here for the next half hour, there's really no reason. [[speaks out loud, doesn't understand]] Well, as far as I'm concerned, then we can take a break for 10 minutes, and then hopefully we'll get rid of it. [[The speaker speaks from the bench, you can't hear.]] Well, then we're gonna give a break for 10 minutes, and I hope that technically works out by then. Here's a colleague and a colleague, we've managed to solve things technically, so we can continue and now we'll speak to the esteemed representative Mr. William Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42232	Thank you, Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. This late hour, I'm not going to start with what was the occasion of this Interpellation, which is 26. I'm not going to talk about these negative stories, they're really already spoken of, and you know very well about it, otherwise they wouldn't have made us this ambush, and two days ago they told us that with the game, they've all told us that. But let's imagine another thing. You, all of you, the team of Slavonia sent here by your superiors, have determined that you defend in this late hour an honor that is difficult to defend. I'm curious, do you have these 20,000 examples of these projects great, these women that my colleague Pavic was now talking about the only thing I can say, you know what it is, you're mothers, you're women, you know how difficult it is to work that isn't recognised, him, care, care about little care in our proud patriarchal environment. And I'm glad you're talking like this, you'd almost say feminist Mr. Pavic, I support that. I hope that you will eventually increase these wages, because these are still huge, difficult jobs to deal with old people, it's a really very difficult job. As he is responsible and concerned and you all know what I'm talking about. But I'm curious, what about those people you know, and we hear less about them, now we'll talk about it. I want to talk about great, working, hardworking, rebellious warriors, cattlemen, fruit farmers, farmers of all kinds, beekeepers recently said, which with these people who haven't received this huge grant that Europe gives, not just to you, gives Poland, gives Hungary, gives for years. If there is, do you know anyone who might have been supposed to get it, I know people who had old tractors, kept working on it, I talked about it on the board, and you were ministers, maybe you remember that, I know those examples and you know, because I talked about it with the HDs and you know if I talked to the HDZs. Some knew about it, and I don't know how, but they got and they held you... and all those incredible tractors because they didn't want to sell them, they held them, they hid them in the stables and they kept driving bad tractors like these neighbors who couldn't get to it, and then they were in a couple of years when they had to because it was, and then they sold it because, like, they were out of that deadline. You know all about it. It was about that and the papers. I just want to know if there are such cases, because I invite them to call us, and I know it's hard for them because the Virovitica journalist said there are pyramids of networked intimidation in these cities and those people who will say it together then they may not get some other means and keep quiet about it, and huge money is given to people who didn't know it wasn't your Pleternica, in this second Licic's Plekernica, the man first started to deal with agriculture and that's the same thing I did and here can colleague Shaslin as well as Mr. Ivanovic say. I've been informed by the board that you probably know that Europe is not interested. Europe gives huge money, and really if it's not a total crime, they don't care if you've ever worked. They say so we encourage you to start working on the ground for the first time. Here's a million, two, three right now. How much did you give Tolusic? Two-and-a-half to keep your mouth shut and take it easy and you'll get it back. You understand exactly what I'm talking about? I'm asking everyone to call us back.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42233	Thank you. Thank you very much. The next debate will be the respected representative of Stipan Shashin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42234	My colleagues and colleagues, given this time, and I will really try to be brief and talk only about facts and concrete things. First of all, I want to highlight the fact that the project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem was created in response to the poor programming of the European financial perspective from 2014 to 2020 at the time of the Government of Zoran Milanović. Also due to the consequences of war and war destruction of Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem is significantly lagging behind other parts of the Republic of Croatia in economic and other terms. Five Slavonian counties were placed in the same statistical region with the City of Zagreb and were thus brought into an extremely unfavourable position, an unfavourable position regarding the possibility of withdrawing European funds. Believe me, I've known firsthand as the head of the municipality for 12 years in conversation with my fellow mayors, mayors, etc. A large number of local self-government units simply could not even nominate their projects for reasons because they did not have the means in their budgets to co-finance these projects because these percentages were indeed large and simply unfavourable. That's the facts. It can be checked at any moment and I don't know, I just don't know why it's so hard for someone to admit that at that time you just didn't know, you didn't have experience. And frankly, you didn't have any very good will to help Slavonia, Baranja and Srem. Because if you had, it'd probably be a little different. That's not what I'm saying personally, but it's what the citizens, the residents, showed it to the voters in the elections and punished you for it. There's just been a change of government. There's been a very different situation today. New people came, people with experience, people with knowledge, people who did it at local level, regional level, and today they do it at national level. And of course the results are significantly different today compared to that time. I say again, I don't blame you very much, because you probably didn't know, you didn't have any experience. I just resent the most that you don't admit it today and you're trying to impose something on us, patch it up, etc. to cover up their ignorance, inexperience, etc. I, since I'm there from the Osijek-Baranja County area, will only say a few facts about the level of Osijek-Baranja County, because I know the situation best there. Except through Mr. Matula now talked about where the small producers are, where the farmers are. In the area of Osijek-Baranja County more than 5 and a half thousand small projects, or concrete projects, which are realised at a different stage of realization. In addition to these, to say that they are called small projects, they were realised or nominated at different stages of implementation of certain strategic projects, strategic projects for the level of Osijek-Baranja County. When I talk about it then, first of all, I think about corridor 5C, which I've talked about in replicas before and in full profile. So it's not some kind of fast road improvised, it's really a real highway. Then regional distributor, the value of that road is somewhere around 60m euros along the way. The regional distribution centre is worth over 100 million kuna. Here's a week ago, two days ago, the work started on it. I can't tell you, look at the media, and you'll see how excited people are about how much they add to it and how aware they are that without it they simply can't be competitive on the market. They can literally quote, they said that what is a fishing port, it is a regional distribution centre, it is not said by politicians, it is said by farmers, it is said by fruit farmers, the largest fruit farmers in the Slavonia and Baranja area. In addition, the Clinical Hospital Centre, the construction of the Clinical Hospital Center over 2 billion kunas, reconstruction of the Airport, railway corridors and everything else that is a prerequisite for economic development, new jobs and demographic reconstruction, which is also the goal All of this, thank you. [[/Intruder Željko Reiner: Thank you. We've still got a replica... of a colleague named Shashin.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42235	We have a replica of your exposure to the respected representative Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42236	I thank the chairman, here I am now interested, if you know the answer or perhaps after one of my colleagues and ministers from the Ministry. The first irrigation systems were excavated in the 4th millennium before Christ, made by farmers in the south of today's Russia, in ancient Mesopotamia, the channels allowed agriculture and the first channel was 2500 years before Christ in the Sumerian city. When you type in irrigation and Slavonia, it lists you with a series of projects, every little bit of watering Slavonia, to this day, do you know how many areas in Slavonia are under the irrigation system, did this project do anything to move forward in that direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42237	Dear Representative Shashin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42238	Thanks for asking. Here, specifically, about two or three years ago, now time has passed quickly, Minister Ćorić was, he was mayor, we were and personally I was on the occasion of opening a irrigation system in the Prince's Vineyards, or in the area of Belje in Baranja, somewhere around, over 5,000 hectares of this system was covered and allowed irrigation. The value of this investment, if I recall correctly, was 101 million kuna. We also have a large irrigation system in Nardo, which Mr. Lac may know a little bit more, better, about the surfaces and the Lower Miholjec. It is in the area of Osijek-Baranja County, indeed the area of Vukovar-Srijemska and there County would not speak because I do not have the exact information.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42239	Thank you very much. The next debate will be the respected representative of Josip Saric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42240	Dear Vice-President, Your Honors Minister, I'm sorry... third of all happiness... the Honorable Vice President, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Fellow Members and fellow MPs. The situation in Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem before the establishment of this Council was indeed very complex, very difficult, burdensome, various problems. We cannot mention the serious consequences of the Homeland War, which he left especially in Vukovar-Srijem, Osijek-Baranja County. So the problems with privatisation, and the problems with the floods that occurred in Vukovar-Srijem County, so the problems of the relations between all governments that led Croatia, thus and Slavonia, primarily these HDZs, our governments, as well as the SDPs, resulted in this government setting up a Council for Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem with the aim of bringing Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem into a position that includes other counties or other regions in the Republic of Croatia. So, the objective of setting up this Council was to strengthen competitiveness, economic development, demographic renewal, and to say all kinds of developments. The Council consists of representatives of the government, mayors, representatives, all those who should be, no matter what political party they belong to, which I believe has shown one breadth and a relationship primarily with the Croatian government, or our prime minister. The results of the project are 16.7 billion kunas agreed or 21 thousand projects. In Vukovar-Srijem County, where I come from, that's $3.49 billion in contracted, paid $1.44 billion. In the town where I come from, a small town, 6 300 inhabitants, it's 238 million kunas of various projects, from agglomeration that is 85 million kunas, an entrepreneurial incubator, a new kindergarten, a biological centre, a beautiful project that we've realized through a natural heritage project and we've opened 100 jobs. The government has done another very important thing, it has introduced a Fund for Alignment, which has enabled all municipalities and cities to monitor projects, they can design, they can co-finance their projects, which was not until then. So, in conclusion, that the situation in Slavonia and the relationship of all Croatian governments so far has been like today's Croatian Governments this Council, I'm sure you shouldn't. I believe that with everything that has been done so far and everything that will be done in the future through this project, and everything that we are doing at our municipal, urban, county levels in synergy with the Croatian government, that Slavonia will return that glow and that Slavonia will be back in gold as it once was. That's what I'm convinced of. I believe that this synergy will achieve a common goal. It was moving to Slavonia, leaving Slavonia, unfortunately leaving today. I believe that with this approach to Slavonia, we will stop this process and trust a large number of people and return to Slavonia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42241	Thank you. We've got a replica of the respected representative Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42242	Well, here's a little bit. Do you have any information on how many unemployed there are in Slavonia, how many people have been evicted from Slavonia in the last 10 years when we are talking about successes in Slavonia?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42243	Dear Representative Saric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42244	And one man who moved out of Slavonia, that was a lot for us Slavons. So, a large number of people have moved out. We are also aware of the facts and moments of Croatia's entry into the EU and the opening of a European labour market that has enabled Slavs to seek a better future. We look forward to the fact that yet a large number of these people return to Slavonia aware of the fact that they are living nowhere better and better than in their homeland.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42245	Thank you. The next debate will be respected representatives of Martina Grman Kizivat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42246	I would like to thank the Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. It's almost three o'clock, so we'll talk good morning. How good the project is Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem speak several facts. Virovitica-Podravska County is one of the most underdeveloped counties in the Republic of Croatia. He's got the lowest GDP per capita. Evidence is also the National Development Strategy. The highway and the fast road have been promising for 20 years. Every election opens new papers, but we haven't moved a mile. We're still Croatia's appendix. Slatinka, PICs, Guy, Model, Classes, Builder, Universal, Senkovac Farm are just some of the companies that were successfully shut down under your bat. You successfully extinguished the last sugarcane with your genius agricultural policy, and the inhabitants there are less and less. And then you wonder why I'm criticizing the work of the government and the Ministry of Agriculture. You start working well, and I'll give no trouble to praise everything you do well. But here's another example of why I see you're not doing well. Renewable sources slowly become the imperative of modern society. In Slavonia, the rich fertile surfaces and forests had just been a mass renewable source of much to talk about. A few years ago, the construction began as an energy source, which interested people first in the grain area of neglected agriculture because of the announcement of the ability to earn money by growing weedy corn. A secure market for well-paid goods was a bait for farmers, so some tried happiness and took part in the production of raw materials needed by newly built energies near Slatina, Lower Miholjc and Villa. But not everything is always the way it is presented it showed a meeting of farmers in Sopa, a small village near Slatina, which took place on 16 July 2020. The first contracting of corn and wheat production started as early as 2014. For the first three years, farmers contracted the delivery directly with the Energans, but since 2017, Agronatura from Gunja has appeared, and contracts have been concluded with Sedlic near Bjelovar as the bearer, the producer of the production. Co-operatives from the Virovitica-Podravska County say their descent went to biogas plants in the Slatinic area, i.e. in BioIntegra and Biogas Energy. And then a few years later we have Zeljko Tušek from Nova Saruka looking for 92,000 kuna. Jozo Shantak from Sopa is looking for 750,000 kuna, and only the OPGs from the Sopa municipality are looking for about 5 million kuna. This same Jozo Shantek argues that this business and the state have damaged about 4 million kunas. Kruno Prašnjak from Novi Senkovec says he did not get the money for rape from 30 hectares of land, and Slobodan Stjepanović from Nova Bukovica for 2440 tonnes of corn rape delivered. Dinko Brezec of Josipov describes the whole case as a Croatian story and claims that the cooperatives have been double-crossed. Vlado Spoljaric of Veliki Rastovac is looking for 400,000 kuna. A group of producers are trying to exercise their rights through court, but the pandemic of the coronary virus is prolonging and slowing down the submitted proposals for the purpose as well. This story is another one in a series of injustices our producers are experiencing. All these names are real people with huge problems. They feel disappointed, forgotten, and above all bitter because there is no protection for them, and the state does nothing to help. This story was also given to a court epilogue. I know you're going to say that it's exclusively a business relationship between the two sides, but gentlemen, these are our small and medium-sized farmers who don't even kneel on their knees anymore, they're done. Farmers also addressed the mayor of Virovitica-Podravska County. The Ministers were with you, too. You've all been full of compassion, but there's no help. After the court dispute is over, we will know who was right, but I stress that many farmers may not welcome their justice to the Republic of Croatia. So protect our farmers so these things don't happen anymore. Gentlemen of the circuits, castles and parks do not live. Live from work, but only the one who gets paid. In the end, I can say that Slavonia has not been following happiness for the last 30 years, war, privatisation, emigration, but I still believe that Slavonia is the richest region in the Republic of Croatia. Because if it's been destroyed for 30 years and it hasn't been destroyed yet it means it's extremely rich and of course it's infuriating everything that's happening to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42247	Thank you. The next debate will be respected MPs Martina Vlasic Iljkic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42248	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Minister. I come from Požega-Slavonian County, from the Golden Valley, which loses its glow every further year because they are men. Unfortunately, the competition and the current development areas covering European funds do not provide a new value, they were created and written far beyond Slavonia and Slavonic man. No one asked Slavons and Slavons how they see the development of their end, which is what they need most and in which direction development and investment should go. Energy reconstruction of public institutions buildings, millions spent on building project documentation for museum restoration, reconstruction of castles, squares, social homes is something that does not offer a new value because there is no domestic population, let alone a tourist. However, not everything was invested in buildings and social homes, and thus went to a nearby HDZ company, it went into the private pockets of prominent HDZs and members of their families through the financing of new agricultural activities. Not to repeat the clans of the family from Požeko-Slavonia County, i.e. Pleternica and their impertinent activities, the fact is that because of the large number of these interesting families, there is an even greater number of those families that are not close to the HDZ and could not get good advice and grants. The next time you visit Pleternica, respected ministers, visit those families who could not receive grants and ask them how they live and what their life plans are. The developmental glow of the county, as you can see, is not an objective state and let it appear to you. According to the Požeko-Slavon County report, more than 1.5 billion kunas of grants have been withdrawn since the start of the Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem project, since October 2016, while the total value of these projects is 1.9 billion kuna. What does that mean for young families? Nothing, they're moving out. What does that mean for HDZ? Winning the election of donations, such as the entrepreneur Galic, the main donor and performer of all works, but absolutely all in the heat. Family homes for children are full. The mental health of people has been disrupted, due to all the circumstances of the Coronus crisis, earthquakes, job losses, unemployment, entire families are moving out, and you are rebuilding public buildings. The project Let's be educated together through several school years since 2015, the aim of the project is to support the inclusion of students with difficulties in school institutions in the district of County, in order to ensure the conditions for improving their educational achievements. What about employment after schooling students with difficulties? No one offers them a job, no child gets a job, no child is employed, that means life exclusion for their parents. Compare it only with the privileged HDZ caste, makes the appetites don't hurt and that's what the problem is. If you had clearly fenced yourself and did not allow guessing at all levels, there wouldn't have been a lot of cases, an affair with still going on, such as Puljašić, Pilon, Lucic and the like. However, as the prime minister likes to wonder at the dishonest actions of his members in the Požega-Slavonska County area, we call for a step further than a surprise. As citizens, women, mothers, social workers and parliamentary deputies, it is incomprehensible to tolerate and jointly present projects of the minister responsible for social affairs, Josip Aladrovic and incumbent Mayor Alojz Tomasevic, who is legally convicted of family violence. You've been supporting him for the last two years in the County Assembly, as if nothing had happened, except your principled attitude against domestic violence. Your conduct is an example of others, you must be aware, and on this trail that nothing will happen to anyone, regardless of the crimes there are consequences and it is important here to highlight, because it is only a matter of days when similar affairs will come out in public and for a reason you will be held responsible for supporting such violent behavior. About energy reconstruction projects and the Mayor of Požega, Darka Puljasic, the whole public is familiar and what consequences did he bear? He's still the mayor, laughing to the public, laughing at you, issuing new press from March 2021 with a cover photo of himself, his own hall, which is the subject of the indictment. For subsidisation fraud and forgeries. I repeat, if you had clearly fenced yourself and done everything to prevent such behaviour, the mayor wouldn't have thought to complain about the cases of the indictment. Finally, everything to say about the project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem, we are looking for transparent spending of European funds, equally and accessible to all. What you're talking about are national projects that are actually united in one table and by you it's called the Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem Project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42249	Now it will end up on behalf of the Centre and Glass Representatives Club, a respected representative of Dalia Oreskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42250	I must say to my fellow MPs and MPs, the Honorable Chairman, that you truly pleasantly surprised me tonight, tonight, in these small hours of the night, I didn't know that you were such a brilliant legal, not a health mind, because indeed at two o'clock in the night, I would say that the motion to refuse to continue this debate tomorrow morning, with an explanation that we are in violation of the equality of MPs. Well, it wouldn't be fair if one of us could say something wise at two o'clock in the night, and someone doesn't have a right to do that, really violates our own equality. That's genius. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42251	Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42252	Two, three more important things I want to say at the very end. So, this wasn't a real controversies tonight, this was the Stribor forest, where they put their eggs before their sister-in-law, and then she crawled out their tongues, and so you showed your true essence. My friend, can you explain to me what kind of party schools you're talking about, and who of us has attended party schools here? I mean, for my generation, I don't even know how to explain what the term is. You say we have an expert minister. And to me, which I criticise the HDZ most is in the interest of the minister having expertise. Well, it's not slow about it, nor are we here to trouble it. We've been having problems with political favors and corruption, we've been having problems with it, and I really want to ask you a question from Minister Vukkovic. Let me know when it was in the Republic of Croatia when someone from HDZ couldn't get a job because he was a HDZ? Only if you tie the HDZ to the legacy of that former regime, so one of these same frames infiltrated the HDZ ranks, if that's what you're talking about. And the third thesis that really climbed me to the top of my nerves, and that's your doctoring that you won 16% from 6 on this side. So let's talk about how elections are won, because the fact that we're in a campaign period, and maybe that's the real reason why we're talking here without our citizens hearing who's talking, what they're saying and how they're saying. And that's the fact that elections are bought in different ways. I don't mean the money envelope. They buy jobs. They buy their presence in the media. They buy in commercials. They buy in different ways. They're bought with blackmail, intimidation, fire threats, loss of business. The allocation of funding from European funds, we have been talking here all night long, is the theme of this Interpellation that, according to which criteria and how it is somehow always coincided that the highest amounts get someone highly positioned from the HDZ ranks. If you can present your patriotism in such a way through one devastated Slavonia, I really have nothing to say to you except the fact that despite all this Slavonia and thus the entire Croatian HDZ will survive and survive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42253	And now, on behalf of the promoter, a respected representative, Domagoj Hajdukovic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42254	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Thank you. [[Intruder Reiner: Please give a little peace to colleague Hajdukovic.]] I want to thank everyone who participated in the debate, expressed different views, observations. Unfortunately, I'm afraid we haven't talked much about the metrics. That's what my colleague Oreshkovic was talking about, but so have many others who spoke before me, and we've been dragged too far into some other topic, perhaps that's whether the project Slavonia as such exists, there is no such thing as we've already absorbed. But the point of Interpletion was precisely this suspicion of guessing, of political bargaining, of corruption in the distribution I won't say European money, that's what I always say under quotes, so our money, taxpayers' money. No one disputes the goals of the project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem. I don't think there's a single government that declared at least those same goals. And the goal at the end of the project is to bring Osijek-Baranja, Virovitica-podravska, Brod-Posaviska, Požega-slavonska and Vukovar-Srijem County to the level of those of our most developed Primorje-goranska, Istria, Krapina-Zagorska, Varazdinska and Međimurska. Now I ask you rhetorically again, do you know what's in common with these Slavonic counties, and what's in common with these developed counties that I've listed? Well, in all Slavonians, it is in HDZ power, and in all those developed in power there is no HDZ. Perhaps it is also an indicator of how to observe the development of Croatia and our regions? So I would also like to finally draw attention to some of the data when we are already throwing ourselves into the statistics on the situation in Osijek-Baranja County in 2015, 2019 or estimates according to the source, is the source of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. So, the number of residents in 2015 is 293,000, 2019. 272 grand. That's the result of the Slavonia project. The number of displaced population in 2015 is 4000 458, in 2019 is 5 thousand 40. The total immigration balance is about the same. 2015 minus 2 000 600, 2015 minus 2000 257. Natural population growth 2015 minus a thousand 557, 2019 minus a thousand 622. The number of students enrolled in the 1st grade of primary school or the beginning of the school year 2015 is 22 thousand 283, 2019 is 20 thousand 503. If we needed quantifiable data for this project here's an example of just one county. I could read for all five now, but it doesn't make sense. Here I took the county from which I come if we needed a measurable result. But I repeat again. The point and the measure is not ultimately the result, because we all see that the result is lagging behind. I see it best, perhaps, for example, that before someone of my generation I will meet on the streets of Dublin, or Berlin or Frankfurt, rather than on the streets of our native Osijek. So the result is absolutely lagging behind, and one of the reasons why I'm not sure is, in fact, the question is whether this money that is intended for the east of Croatia comes to the right people? From what we're seeing, from what we can check, from what we can see, from what we can see is clearly not coming. And unfortunately, it worries that the constant lack of vision by the ruling ones, and the lack of vision is reflected again in that plastic example and I will repeat it again because the repetition is the mother of knowledge, we are renewing the railway station building in Osijek, and at the same time we are abolishing the rail lines of passenger. So we build or rebuild a station building that will ultimately not serve its purpose, there will be no passengers, there will be no trains. Therefore, and if we continue like this, I'm afraid this region is not well written. We repeat and again I do not want to say that the purpose of this impelation is that everything that is done in Slavonia is bad. It's not. There are some doubts, therefore, whether those who should be beneficiaries of the money really are. There are doubts that are added to the value of this project, and then playing with statistics, we can play with it anyway, but the fact is, and here is what the Croatian Chamber of Commerce tells us that people are still leaving, that our population is extinct, that there are less and less young people in eastern Croatia. And that's the problem, that's what we're worried about, and that's why we wrote this anyway. And why our people leave, some even quit and leave, so they have a secure existence because they can no longer endure this state of society, I can't stand this mistrust in institutions. We see what happens to our courts, especially the Court of Justice in Osijek, but also, not only the courts' institutes, if the courts have little confidence in others, and then when they see who gets the money again, in which ways and how there are indications of political conjecture, then they get really sick and want to leave. This is not directed against any political party, this is directed against a system designed to simply be corrupt. I can't say that all HDZ people are bad people, dishonest people, etc., no, I would mistake my soul to say that, there are wonderful people in the ranks of HDZ, honest, capable, I have no doubt at all here, but you know what they say and every grain has a weed, and the problem is when you don't have grain, it becomes more and more of a weed and the weeds choke the grain. I could now talk about the names of specific mayors, mayors who I think do quality work, but I don't want to make them a problem on the page that doesn't turn out to be created by the SDP. But in conclusion, I end up in this late hour for those perseverances that have endured to the end, I do not want and I constantly like this ungrateful role to be a wicked prophet. Unfortunately, every time I was prophesying something like that, it turned out that I was a little bit like Grandma Wanga and said that some bad things were going to happen in general, sometimes a little less maybe, sometimes even worse, but they always happened. This fellow Members and colleagues, when you vote on it on Friday, i.e. Tomorrow, keep in mind that it wasn't a bad intention, that we have a common goal, and that's the goal that declares both the government and that we've heard about this speaker many times, so these six eastern counties make it as advanced as these five western counties of our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42255	Thank you very much. We also have a few replicas on your display. The first is Honorable MPs Opačak-Bilić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42256	Thank you. A respected colleague, what is not disputed is that millions have merged to the east of Croatia into different projects, but, of course, statistics themselves mean nothing until there is no additional value and until people feel the real benefit of these investments. And that's what I personally stress all the time. It's unnecessary to touch each other all night and say that everything on the other side of the Assembly isn't good, but here we listen even though it doesn't have to be, because here's when something good, I personally don't slow it down and let's say the Program Wish brings one good benefit, but too many times we've heard tonight from the other side of the Assembly that for a lot of things... So if the SDP government was so terrible, then I don't know why, then why the current government reached out to the projects that were launched right at the time of the SDP government, maybe to show it to a better success of this project itself, which began after the end of the SDP's mandate. [[You can't hear a pay phone.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42257	Thank you, the answer of Honorable Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42258	Thank you very much, colleague, so here in this final speech I tried to be a little more constructive and say that it wasn't, so we don't look at everything black, white, and we've never done that before and we never hesitated, nor were we afraid to support anything with, which comes from this side of the Assembly, if we consider it good and in the interests of our citizens. Why it reaches out to the projects of 2014, 2015 is one reason because it is in the same financial framework, and the other is a complete senselessness, therefore, there is no vision of how we want to develop our eastern Croatia. Here's an example just, you've already mentioned irrigation here, that the lateral channel in the Prince's Vineyards is, you won't believe, a project of SDP's government, a successful project, while we have projects, let's say Velishkovci-Gat which is, in which a lot of money is invested and which is now barely working and would not even do so without supplying drinking water to the town of Belisce.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42259	And the next replica of the esteemed representative of Shashin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42260	Dear colleague. When you talked about the most developed counties in the Republic of Croatia and what is common to them, you forgot to mention only that, the fact that none of these counties were, fortunately, exposed directly to aggression during the Homeland War. Well done to volunteers, people in these areas who were part of the Homeland War, I take off my hat. I will mention one fact to you, in 93, when the County of Osijek-Baranja and other counties were founded, in the Assembly of County, one of our fellow councilmen brought a box of CSOs, it was a whole day's dry meal, it was during the Homeland War we had, there were some 12, 13 items in it, of bread, of meat-cutting, I don't know, those there, gums, what was it all about. None of these products and products were produced at the time in Slavonia, or Slavonia, is a fact. And that's what's hard to achieve today.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42261	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42262	Thank you very much. I agree, buddy. With part of what you said, namely, if I'm not mistaken, the county's 94th was founded, at least the Osijek-Baranja, well, it doesn't matter now, 93th ok, less important, what's important here, is that already the privatisation started, you know, so then many companies that could have been in that package no longer existed. I can list many for you now, and many of them still exist today, livers, i.e. Not many, unfortunately, very rare. Unfortunately, there are rights in everything. '95. He ended the Homeland War in a military-related action of Storm, '98. The peaceful reintegration has restored everything to the legal order of the Republic of Croatia. After that, we had 20 years to take care of this Slavonia, Baranja, and all the other ends that were killed in the Homeland War, and unfortunately we saw that we had been systematically neglecting those very parts. And not only Slavonia and Baranja but also Banija, Kordun, Dalmatian Zagora, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-03-24-0.u42263	Thank you very much. I'd like to conclude a debate on this point. We will vote on it when the conditions are met, and we will continue to work today at 9.30 and the first item will be the Annual Report on the implementation of the strategy on RH relations with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia for 2019. I wish you a pleasant few hours of sleep. Session interrupted at 3:10 p.m.
