ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u57742	Here, dear colleagues and colleagues, good morning, we move on with our work. Before we move to today's agenda, the Committee on Justice and the Committee on Legislatives proposed the basis of Article 247. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament to conduct a united debate on the following two points: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts, first reading, P.Z. No. 207, the second is: - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Areas and Seats of Courts, first reading, P.Z. No. 209 The Committees also proposed that we conduct the unification of the debate and the following two points, the right to: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Law, first reading, P.Z. number 208 and second point: - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Areas and Headquarterss of State Lawyers, first reading of P.Z. Number 210. Do you agree with these suggestions? If you agree, then we have no objections. We will conduct a joint discussion on these points. The presentation on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Mosta has a respected representative, Nino Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u57796	Who are we people gathered in this historic building, which is our purpose, which we represent and what we are serving, why do we continue to act as the most important political body in the country, we call the legislator of the temporary representatives of the will of the people to whom sovereignty belongs under the constitution? Why, now that we see harshly how and over the priest there is a priest over the Sovereign. The headquarters of which is the head expert on ONO and DSZ manages the pandemic, and manages us, past us and without us. Not us as individuals, but people's representatives will determine this strange body if we can enter the HS building. How if you do not call a coup a situation in which someone prevents the gathering and normal work of the assembly, the country's most important political body. I'm ordering headquarters, please come to your senses until it's too late, while it's still legal to go through institutions. What are your intentions with covid certificates defined in this way? The Danes honestly said the inoculation force, is that the point, answer? Preventing the spread of the infection can't be a reason because the Covid certificate doesn't stop this from telling you Lancet more specifically last week a published article in it that shows how the infection spreads and vaccinated and unvaccinated. Then why are you fooling the vaccination? You give them the opportunity to move and enter hospitals without testing and thus spread the infection. Except that the lack of Covid certificate tells you science is clearly showing you practice. It is enough to look at what is happening in our nearest neighborhood in Slovenia, which despite Covid's confirmations has even the worse spread of the infection of the last days than we have. Why are you pushing something that we already know doesn't work with this kind of social tension? Is it possible that it's just to spread as many vaccines as possible? Today we know, and it's no longer hidden by your bodies that vaccinated and unvaccinated, vaccination and non-vaccination have nothing to do with the spread of the infection. That's what he means by others, so it doesn't make sense. By vaccination, everyone thinks of themselves, i.e. The assessment depends on age and health status is that it is at greater risk of vaccination or without it so far we already know the temporary and incomplete protection to deal with possible illness. It should be a free choice for every citizen. And with Covid's certificates, you have trampled many of those freedoms. Well, we've already interviewed people in the vaccination lines who say they wouldn't be vaccinated, but they have to. They don't have a job for another real choice. A lot of people are so humiliated, their will is broken, their freedom is hurt, dignity crushed in such a way that they had to give their bodies against their will something they didn't want but had to. If they carry the disease, and research like the one mentioned in Lancet confirms that they carry both vaccinated and unvaccinated should be tested both, if the purpose of the test is to prevent the spread of the infection, if something else you do as you have so far. We therefore propose that by the end of the month the testing be mandatory for all and that it be paid by the state until further dynamics of the spread of the infection are seen. What about the sick? Why are reports of how many have been vaccinated and how many unvaccinated among the hospitalized and the deceased have no record of how many who have already been over it? Why is it hiding from the public? Why is the time limit of six months or even a year of incompetence not extended? Can you say with certainty that tomorrow, literally tomorrow, when I am over a year of my personal illness, I am no longer protected from twice-vaccinated ministers from whom at least two of them are currently ill? Why are you harassing the sick? Based on what research? Is the goal of them being vaccinated even though the disease gives much longer-term protection from vaccination? You're introducing a measure that both science and practice show is pointless to prevent the spread of the infection. You leave free entrance to casinos and shopping centers, and ask your teachers for confirmation even though you are not still asking for them from your students. What's the logic here? Maybe we'll find out in the next years when hopefully after all this is over, and it'll go the way it's been before, we can agree on a complete mosaic of motive and intent in everything that's going on. The state's contracts with pharmaceutical companies will also have to be illuminated. And all aspects of EMA approval for this mass clinical trial that you insist on and those where the minimum possibility of developing a serious form of disease is. Understand yourselves until it is too late, for the day will come when your deeds and your intentions will be questioned.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u57857	Following is the statement on behalf of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives, Honored representative Urša Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u57858	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia decided at its 83rd session of 4.11. to create the necessary conditions for the implementation of the liquidation procedure of the Brodar Institute in Zagreb. The Shipyard Institute founded in 1948 was and remained synonym for innovation. The main jobs of the institute are experimental product development until the production of prototypes, design, supervision, budget and measurement and testing. It must not be missed to say, and it is now perhaps the most important information that the Broding Institute is located at 120,000 square squares of attractive land in New Zagreb. The government of the Republic of Croatia said in its decision it envisions 60 million kuna to create assumptions for the implementation of the liquidation and to create conditions for the Republic of Croatia to acquire property. Property property, so 120,000 square squares of attractive land, estimated at 299 million kunas, and therefore whether it reminds you of the famous conversion and privatisation of the '90s where companies and factories were liquidated, workers ended up on the road, and valuable properties were being sold, creating a wealth of 200 families that Franjo Tudjman had drawn up. The government of the Republic of Croatia is starting to shut down the Brodar Institute at a time when the activities and business activities of the Brodar Institute have not been shut down in spite of operations under the terms of the blockade and we learn from the open public letter of the ship's worker. They are precise, testing is conducted in the ship's hydrodynamics laboratories and projects are under way both in the pool and in the cavitation tunnel. The Institute is conducting complex research for both domestic companies and renowned foreign customers and actively participates in the work of the ITTC, chairing one of the 4 working groups as well as the EU project from the Adrion programme. That the analysis was carried out by the owner i.e. Governments included a little more than a mere assessment of the value of land such projects would certainly draw attention. Employees stress that the labs of the Brodar Institute are the largest and most expensive laboratory resources in the Republic of Croatia. It is the largest laboratory complex in the country only a large 276m long pool is certainly one of the largest investments in science and research in the Republic of Croatia. The Brodar Institute has more than 70 years of tradition and accumulated knowledge and can contribute greatly to the development of science in the field of technology, economy and defence, which is its purpose. The particular value of the Brodar Institute is workers who have preserved laboratories and who have successfully conducted numerous research. According to the reasons for the decision, the owner's intention is to open a perspective for successful real estate management, and it is argued to be in the undisputed interest of the Republic of Croatia. However, the undisputed interest of the Republic of Croatia is also the maintenance of activities, projects and jobs currently under way and those planned in the future, let alone prospects that would be opened if Brodarski could apply to competitions and EU funds. Areas of emission reductions and environmental protection in which the Shipyard Institute is continuously present should be recognised as the undisputed interest of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the Green-Left bloc strongly appeals to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to review its decision and to preserve the activities of the Brodar Institute because, as the workers are told, if the Brodar Institute is liquidated and the workers are fired and the work in the laboratories will no longer be possible to establish it, and this would be an immeasurable damage to both Croatian science and society as a whole. That is why our message to the Government of the Republic of Croatia between science and real estate business must be chosen science and it is in the undisputed interest of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u57942	Next, we'll take a stand. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, respected representative Marko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u57943	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here is my pleasure after returning from a climate conference from Glasgow where I participated in a meeting of the Interparliamentary Union at the climate conference to come and briefly say something about the main results and efforts at the world level concerning climate change. The latest UN report on the IPSS makes it clear that we are undoubtedly responsible for climate change by dropping CO2, i.e. greenhouse gases of anthropogenic origin. The report also says significant efforts are needed to stay below one and a half degrees of warming per hundred years. The EU, therefore, 27 is responsible for around 8 to 9% of greenhouse gas emissions. China, India and the United States are responsible for over 50%. And that is why, as one of the main results of this year's 26 UN Climate Conferences, the ever-greater countries that have been greenhouse gas emitters including China, India and the United States have agreed to become neutral on greenhouse gas emissions. The European Union is the leader here and will become the leader of this plan by means of a foreign language/ until 2050. China announced until 2060 and India until 2070. Today's draft Decision that came out of the conference states that and with these current promises we are at 2.4 degrees of warming per 100 years. So we are still far from these 1.5%, but I am personally moderately optimistic because for the first time we have that all countries have agreed to be neutral on greenhouse gas emissions, but what is important and this is also pointed out in the draft Decision that it is important to speed up national climate plans and, in particular, reduce the use of coal. That is why we are pleased that the European Union is the leader in this whole process, that we are stressing with our example, and that this large 1800 billion-euro package for the next 10 years and/or foreign language/package/package/ multi-annual financial framework has provided funds for this. Croatia has 25 billion euros at its disposal, 40% of which will go from the national programme for the recovery of resilience and 30% from the multiannual financial framework to green transformation and the fight against climate change. The meeting was attended by Prime Minister Plenkovic, who further strengthened Croatia's efforts by saying that we will reduce our emissions by 45% by 2030. He also announced for the first time that we were leaving coal, using coal after 2033, and what I personally enjoyed as an oceanographer that 30% of the Adriatic under our jurisdiction would be protected. Croatia will have 39% of renewable energy sources by 2030, which is more than the European target of 32%. Yesterday was the meeting and conferences on the future of Europe led by our Vice President Dubravka Shuica. One of the main topics there is the same climate change. I was pleased to have participated in the oceonographic work of the conference itself where we were reminded once again that 90% of the excess heat and 20% of the anthropogenic carbon dioxide are now absorbed in the oceans themselves. That is why we are looking forward to this announcement by Prime Minister Plenkovic that we will protect 30% of the Adriatic. In all, there is no alternative but to act if we want to leave our planet to future generations. I believe in success and these conferences, I'm moderately optimistic in a way that we've got all the countries going in that direction, but there's still a lot to do to catch up on speed and to limit below 1.5%, 1.5 degrees of warming, and I saw a personal warm-up of 2.5 degrees in Antarctica when I was on Scientific Research, and that's certainly something we want to avoid maximum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u57999	First we leave the usual with the presentation of the position, the first registered club for the presentation of the position is the Home Movement Club, the esteemed representative of Stipo Mlinarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u58000	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues on behalf of the Homeland Movement would like to turn around, and we're going to have the anniversary of Vukovar, and we're going to have a week of pait to Vukovar. I would like to point out not all the problems, not the problems why no one has filed charges against JNA General Staff, why the campers who have been in Serbian camps haven't been solved, why no compensation suit has been filed for all economic and cultural goods, I would like to open a topic here today that is the most painful, which is the topic of the missing. How can we give a pitet to Vukovar if we don't know where only 350 missing people are from Vukovar? What kind of politicians can come to the column on 18.11. and speak phrases as Prime Minister Plenkovic, who said four sentences in this Croatian Assembly two weeks ago in his annual report four sentences, four floscules. That his government passed the Missing in 2019. What does that mean? My colleagues and colleagues, should mothers, fathers take that law, put it in a coffin, bury it, and light candles for the Sisters or for the anniversary? Of course not. I am interested in the fact that the Croatian Parliament has brought in 2019. The missing persons law, I wonder if there's an implementation in that law, which was done in 6 months, which was made in a year, what will be done in 4 years, what have you done? You didn't do anything. You have done nothing and you have the right to find yourself talking about the piety of the victims of Vukovar, Skabrnj and all other places, not only are missing Vukovars missing, it's over 1800 missing. I think after 30 years there's been a lot of floscule, that we should draw the line and say a lot of this has happened. We all know who defended Croatia that Croatia defended the boys in tennis shoes, that they fought with all their hearts, but let's draw a line and see what politics has done in these 30 years for the most basic thing, to find the missing. How much worry about the missing, I'm sorry there are no colleagues, Djakic, here in the assembly, unfortunately. I requested at the beginning of the 7th month thematic session of the Veterans Committee to be the thematic session on the missing. We voted unanimously. Here are four months past, Mr. Djakic did not call the thematic meeting on the missing. When I asked him last time, a month ago why he didn't call out says the D.A. has to be prepared. My men must prepare after 30 years. So to wake them up at 3 a.m., someone has to know about such a subject if they're working on it, they need to know everything, not that they're preparing for one committee takes them four months, and they still don't think about calling that thematic session. So much for taking care of the missing. Most of you here have kids, imagine yourself not having your baby answer your phone for 3 hours to feel, and imagine parents who have been lying and getting up for 30 years and don't know where their child is. I know some information that's why I've been looking for thematic sessions. My comrade, my friend Tomislav Shestan, was taken away by Borovo Selo, has no bones today, his mother is looking for bones. My friend who was taken from the hospital to the 62 Hansel Cholak doesn't have him, his parents died in the worst troubles, they didn't, they both died, they didn't find a body to bury their child. So this year, don't proudly walk through a column of memories, put your head down, didn't you do your job that you're supposed to do, and this way I invite all the young people to come to Vukovar in a memory column, did these people fight for them? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u58068	Following is the statement of view on behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club, the respected representative Anja Simprag.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u58069	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Milan lost his mother at the end of August of '95 after the end of the military redistribution operation of the Storm in a way that was killed as a civilian of firearms in their home in Polac. The perpetrators of this disgusting crime have not been found or punished for not being Milan's fault. However, in view of the fact that the murderers were not found and convicted of his charge of non-intangible damages against the Republic of Croatia was denied and Milan is charged with paying the litigation, litigation proceedings of 66,000 kuna. In this way, Milan became a debtor of the Republic of Croatia by doing nothing against others, only seeking justice for himself. Mile Grubor of Blue lost his father and grandmother 20 days after the Storm, filed a lawsuit for damages for murdered family members, the request was rejected and he had to pay 35,000 kuna in full. Damir Popoš from Dobropoljac, near Benkovec, received a warning two months ago about a complaint from the Municipal State Attorney's Office in Zagreb asking Damir and his brother and his sister to settle court costs totalling 109.000 kuna. They were killed by a mother, a sick and immobile old woman. Its fate was only learned in 2001, now that Damir is required to fill out property forms so that the state can be charged. Their house was set on fire, and they raised it again with severe torment. The same fate has struck many others, in this way the families of the murdered are once again passing through hell that they long wanted to forget. Because of the fact that your parents were killed as civilians you are in a certain way a multiple victim. You've lost the court's dispute, you've been challenged the right to satisfaction and you're obliged by the Republic of Croatia to compensate for the costs of litigation. You are also in such a difficult situation because if you do not pay this deadline within the time limit called for, there is the possibility that the Republic of Croatia will try to collect its claim by court, and if you do not have enough money in the bank account, the believer may initiate an executive procedure on your mobile or immovable property. The costs of the litigation process and the obligations of their compensation are one of the consequences of the parties' relationship in the case. The judgment shall be based on Article 154(1). The law on litigation, and it reads. The party which loses its case in full shall be obliged to compensate the counterparty for the costs of the procedure declaring the principle of responsibility for success. In the media on this issue, no broad debates have ever been held, rarely reported, compassionate, rarely fought for these demands to be adopted. Of the 121 cases analysed in which prosecutors in litigation demanded the compensation of immaterial damage due to the murder of a close person during the war, only 15 claims were accepted, 86 were rejected. Prosecutors have largely succeeded in litigation that preceded the criminal proceedings in which the perpetrators' liability was found to be found. However, in cases where claims have been filed and if the criminal liability of the perpetrators has not been determined previously, prosecutors have almost always lost their case. Victims who again become victims of the rule of law and equality of all before courts need to make a decision to write off debts to civil war victims. The problem is therefore greater because a certain number of people have already paid the costs mentioned and usually do so on small pensions anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u58070	Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u58071	In 238, the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Shipraga insulted 16,000 dead, talking here about the compensation they must pay for this, so I'm happy if it's true that she read it, that the rule of law is finally working, that the rule of law is finally working. Mrs. Shipraga's war didn't start in '95. Let the war begin in '91. A year. '95. There were no civilians in your Krajina because you know very well, ask your father that general mobilization has been declared. So, don't say that here in a week before Vukovar we are, might be a shame to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u58072	Well, you know it wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you know it was your replica, so in that sense you have a warning. Followed by the position of the Club of Representatives of CENTR and GLAS, respected representative Marijana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u58132	I thank the chairman. Yesterday, a thematic session of the National Council for the Monitoring of Corruption Prevention Strategy was held with the theme "Corruption in Science and Higher Education." The intention was to discuss corruption risks related to both the criteria of employment, the prevention of nepotism in science and high education and similar corruption risks. 30 scientists sent an open letter to the Government on the state of Croatian science, a higher education in which they also refer to the development of the system until 2026, since we are also facing changes to the Law on Science and Higher Education. In a letter to these 30 scientists, it proposes key principles that should be laid down by the pi system of science, higher education, as well as a set of measures that would lead to a new system structure. As indicated in the letter, the system of science and higher education should be set up at the freedom and responsibilities of scientific research, teaching, originality and innovation, openness, international recognition of scientific research, selection and progress of staff, and distribution of resources in the system according to achievements. They also seek a system of funding based on accountability and transparency as well as ethics in science and higher education. So here is the letter from scientists, which reads as follows: “So after the biggest crisis that has hit Europe since World War II, the most money from the NextGeneration of the EU was relatively considered for the needs of the Republic of Croatia's recovery from the NextGeneration Fund compared to other EU countries. The National Recovery and Resistance Plan of the government of the Republic of Croatia has announced the largest investment of €2.4 billion in science and higher education so far. Lack of funding for science, higher education has been regularly highlighted as a fundamental problem due to which reforms in the scientific sector have been delayed or incomplete. Therefore, we now have a special opportunity to adopt new legislation in the coming period, reform the institutions and responsibly distribute considerable financial resources with a view to raising the quality of Croatian science and higher education. Without systematic reforms based specifically on the objectives and measures set out in the National Development Strategy adopted in the Croatian Parliament, Croatia will not be able to separate itself from the bottom of the European countries' scale. With this open letter, the signatories, so they want to tell the Government of the Republic of Croatia as well as all stakeholders involved in the adoption of new legislation reforming institutions and the distribution of planned funds, that we now have a historic opportunity to carry out so many necessary fundamental changes. As a group of scientists working in the country and abroad, we feel invited to join this process and contribute to raising the quality of Croatian science and higher education, as well as working conditions of scientists and teachers. To this end, we propose a set of key principles on which we consider it necessary to rest the system of science, higher education in the Republic of Croatia, as well as a set of concrete measures to be taken to enable the system to be established in accordance with those principles. The first system of science, higher education should be established on the following principles: freedom and responsibility of scientific research and teaching, originality and innovation of scientific research and teaching, openness and international visibility of scientific research, selection system, human development, and distribution of resources in the system according to achievements, accountability and transparency of funding, the ethics of scientific research and teaching in order to take advantage of the historical opportunity and establish a system of science and higher education on those principles, we propose the following measures: To justify new legislation on the analysis of the existing situation and to compare with the practices of scientifically successful European countries. Second, ensure that all documents on implementation of reforms, investments, reporting of irregularities and vomiting as well as monitoring of progress, reporting and meeting target values are made publicly available. Set up a whole fair and responsible system of program funding for scientific institutes and universities. Establish a comprehensive independent and effective system of quality assurance of scientific institutes and universities, and periodically evaluate the objectives. Ensure the independent work of the Croatian Foundation for Science and enable it to be adequately financial and personnel and organisationally equipped. To form a national ethics body in science, to a higher education that all other ethical bodies would be subsidiary. Here's a thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u58178	Following is the statement on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Sovereigns, the respected representative Marijan Pavliček.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u58179	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, I am Marijan Pavliček, married, father of 3 children, high professional staff, according to the Catholic religion, according to the nationality of the Croats, unvaccinated. Of all these categories, this last category is currently the most important in Croatian society, which is because of the pandemic in which we are located because of the numerous decisions of the Political Civil Protection Staff, which has just characterised us unvaccinated as the greatest threat to the existing society. The Civil Protection Headquarters has managed to share this divided Croatian society. So far we have been divided into the left and the right, the believers and the unbelievers, the sons and the grandchildren of the Partisans, the sons and the grandsons of the Ustasha, and today we are divided into the vaccinated and unvaccinated. I don't consider myself a threat to Croatian society. I believe that also vaccinated and unvaccinated can endanger me as far as spreading the virus as I can. Unfortunately, this is confirmed by all scientific studies and medical studies. I personally agree if the ultimate goal is to suppress the pandemic that should be tested by all those entering certain institutions, but literally everything. Both vaccinated and unvaccinated. And those who got over Covid-19 and those who didn't get over Covid-19 because absolutely all of them were vaccinated and unvaccinated and they got over it and those who didn't get over it could get re-infected or get infected for the first time and can transmit that virus. In the past few days, Prime Minister Plenkovic has made a number of very dangerous statements. One of them is that unvaccinated patients who end up in hospital treatment take beds to other patients. So what non-smokers might tell me is that smokers who have been proven scientifically and medically more often suffer from lung cancer and end up in hospital treatment have been taking decades of beds to us non-smokers. Are we going to banalize this complex thing to that level? No, we won't. Unfortunately, some do. I would like to know what the next 4th of January, if the fall of newly infected persons remains the same or even greater Civil Protection Headquarters intends to introduce the possibility of entering certain institutions or working only with Covid. What's going to happen to, say, educators? More than 30,000 educators have not been vaccinated. You know what's gonna happen? It'll collapse the system. Regional and regional self-government will collapse. There will be a collapse of numerous government services. What's next? Will we unvaccinated get this tape to put it around our hands and speak clearly unvaccinated to run from us as once lepers in ancient history speak unclean. I wonder what's next. You can't divide people into vaccinated and unvaccinated, you can't Covid by confirming what's been proven and in the west to suppress this pandemic. Test everything, that's the only way you'll be able to control it. And in the end, I'm going to end this exposure with one announcement of our fellow citizen on social networks that says, I've never seen a vaccine that's so disrupting the relationship between family friends and colleagues, I've never seen a vaccine that threatens existence, prohibits people from going to work and school, I've never seen a vaccine that discriminates and divides our society, this powerful vaccine works perfectly on all the above mentioned things, and it doesn't work well enough for what they say is intended. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u58246	Advocacy follows on behalf of the Croatian Representatives' Club of the HSS and the RF's respected representative Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u58247	Good afternoon, everyone. I think it's time to ask the question in this assembly what economic development means, which means competitiveness, which means any development if we consider that last week the government made a decision that would allow the liquidation of the Broding Institute. I would remind the government of their objectives from the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, which is full of competitiveness, strategic interests that are related to economic development, economic development, technological development, environmental production, how we will achieve all of this. Is economic development achieved by relying on tourism, service activities? Will this become a land of maids and waiters? Well, that's fellow colleagues and fellow Minister Horvat and Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic's plan, and it has been fulfilled for quite some time today. The Shipyard Institute was an institution as a parent and an Immunological Institute that was able to really lead economic development, technological development and ultimately economic development based on science, on the improvement of technological models of ship production, among other things, that institute conducted research that was also related to green development, ecology, etc. So there's still a professor coming from Italy, Giorgio Trincas, a few years ago who teaches boating, shipbuilding, so, shipbuilding science in Trieste, who says we're still the best to engineers compared to Italian engineers, that we have a magazine of shipbuilding that's 8 in the world of value. But we colleagues and colleagues don't think that that's what our government thinks, so the Shipyard Institute, which is 100% owned by a state which is therefore a company of strategic interest, is only as important as real estate and land. And so they showed us that decision last week. The workers came to us who warned us and how she was going and how the invasion of the Brodar Institute was going, she did not go as easily as she did not go easily and devastation of many other institutions and even shipbuilding, but Minister Horvat was really specialized in this field. So it was first declared the Brodar Institute to be a company with 100% ownership of the Republic of Croatia, at the same time in 2015 it became an institution of strategic and special state interest, in translation it means that they had placed them on the market, but at the same time they considered them as state strategic so-called companies and did not thus help them develop at all or maintain themselves. So they could not in any way fight that market with the help of a country that was actually working all the time to devastate that shipping institute. For years they have tried to implement a reform, three times since 2017, before the opening of a bankruptcy procedure, the CERP has passively observed whether it will succeed somehow. All their applications to the CERP were completely ignored. Finally, the government has set up a completely incompetent monitoring committee this year, so shipbuilding engineers, so professors from the university are replaced by professional Horvat's liquidators from the Ministry of Spatial Planning and CERP, such as Zvonko Rac, who sits in 10 companies or company supervisory boards completely incompetent for shipbuilding. So the measures are completely contrary to what CERRP was saying to save the institute. The appointments included violations of the law because people were placed in an apparent conflict of interest such as Director Ruđer Friganovic, who was also the director of another state firm and it was quite clear that this appointment would be problematic. This is co-workers and colleagues finally another episode of Minister Horvat against Croatia, cleaning up every possibility of rational development, economic development that would bring us into a competitive situation, not by reducing labour prices and our people working for small wages much more of other workers in the EU rather than really technological development. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u58310	Following is the presentation of the position on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, the respected representative Siniša Hajdas Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u58311	Thank you. The Honorable Vice President of the Assembly, fellow Members and colleagues, dawned when Philip arrived at the Capitol Station, for 23 years he was not actually in this corner, and he still knew everything about how he was coming and rotted the snotty roofs and apples of the fratern tower and the grey wind washed the one-story at the bottom of the dark court, the jellyfish’s head of the saddened, heavy-lined oak door and cold doorknob. 23 years old. So this beginning reminds me of the story of Minister Banozic, who, as a general public, was actually unknown, and in fact until the appointment by Andrej Plenkovic probably did not make a special point in political life or prove himself. And what does he do first? So, the first thing he does is he gets valuable real estate and he does it nicely. And how else are you going to show that you're important and special? What did Minister Banozic do in his career as defence minister? He tried to get some planes on the second or third occasions, whether it was the best value for money on the latter. So he got into a fight with the president of the state and even said no nonsense that it was time for the president's recall, even though I don't quite understand where he called it to decide what powers it was. Now that knowledge is revealed about this property, and even when the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest initiates the procedure in order to determine what actually happened, that same commission that the HDZ government is thinking of suspending from digging them, it is more boring to them with what they think are foolish, Plenkovic continues to defend his minister whom he created and will defend him further, up to the last drop of blood but not Plenkovic's but Banozic's. Even further, Plenkovic is questioning the media and commenting that it is possible that they have not done their job and published exactly the story of Banozic's apartment now, not later or best never. And exactly Plenkovic's government knows best how to publish texts in different portals, different daily newspapers at a time when it's awkward or convenient. So, depending on what position you're looking at the media and whether you're using them for what's-his-name. your thing whatever that thing of yours was. Now, it doesn't generally matter if Banozic is capable or less capable, whether he's exaggerated, he's not exaggerated, so it doesn't matter if he works by law and procedure, but whether he's loyal to his prime minister who uses him every time he doesn't want to compromise someone but shifts it to another. And it is also visible today if you have noticed that former HDZ Presidency Minister and member Mrs. Gabriela Žalac is likely to be invited to an informed interview in OLAF, so she will end up in Luxembourg, so no longer in Zagreb, which means that Mr. Plenkovic has an incredible talent to defend his completely incompetent and unspeakable ministers. Here is now a year and a half of the pandemic of the Coronal Virus, Plenkovic also defends Beroš who has completely ruined public health in Croatia and even if you noticed yesterday, today announces and so I am looking at the partial privatisation of public health under the cover of Covid. Therefore, Plenkovic Berosa defends who has brought the system to the level that chronic patients in Croatia are not being treated, that instead we have one hospital that treats all Covid patients, we have a script of Bergham, spends some money on failed information campaigns about Covid and a vaccination campaign that did not serve their purpose, which has succeeded without public procurement for such a job if you remember to hire a flower shop from Gornja Stubica. Remember two or three months ago. So absolutely failed public health policy concerning informing the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and figures are never higher. So, even today, it is not clear to the citizens where Covid will have confirmation, when Covid will not need confirmation, when it comes into force, when it does not take effect. Local administration units and self-government are wondering who's going to pay for these tests, no one has any idea, and no one's giving an answer to that question. Which means that Andrej Plenkovic and his government have done something much more dangerous for Croatian society, which is that people have stopped believing in institutions and have never created a bigger break in Croatian society, which now comes down unfortunately to whether they have been vaccinated or have not been vaccinated and that they believe different faces with nonsense or news. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u58322	The presentation of the position on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSLS and Reformists, the respected representative Darko Klasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u58323	... Vice President HS, good morning, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Although the cryptcurrency and blockchain technology on which it is based has existed for more than 10 years. public policies on these new tools are only with us at the beginning. However, it is one of the many important and modern topics that affect world circumstances and change existing paradigms. I think it is important that politics turn to an individual in the 21st century and future challenges facing the whole world, so do we. In fact, today's individual primarily feels insecure about all these phenomena of a post-modern age marked by globalisation and the Internet. Informationists and engineers who finance, investors and corporations, who politically do not become more and more citizens create phenomena such as 5G networks, biotechnology, bitcoins and various machine learning crypts, artificial intelligence that most citizens do not understand at all, let alone that it might influence them, which makes individuals more and more feel not only insecure but also irrelevant to these new technologies. This is why it is aimed at starting political debates on 21st century issues, and on the other hand, at changing the citizens' feelings that the future bypasses them by including them in its movement. The Crypto Revolution is based on blockchain technology, we in HSLS assess it with a particularly positive view because it sees the success of a private initiative in international co-operation as a response to a marked centralisation at the level of the global and internet environment that has led to the monopolies of small-scale internet companies over their users' data. While, above all, transactions on the Internet were carried out through certain authorities to verify them, which had, or in terms of which there were significant control of powers and blockchain technology based on trust in a network of entities that functioned as a data system based on common algorithmic rules and concessions, it is now centralized on Internet servers and replaced by so on. digital autonomous organisations. The centralised approach of a large number of citizens to information and property shows the perspective of further global democratic development, and the obstacles to the creation of monopoly, oligopol and similar structures of power within different areas of public and private life, which are rarely a key obstacle to individual autonomy. As a result, blockchain technology enables international cooperation on the basis of private and voluntary initiatives, and for the purpose of realising a wide range of local, national and global projects aimed at the welfare of individuals such as climate change policy measures. It is a liberal paradigm of the new era to address climate and other global political issues with individuals and their initiatives as a valuable starting point. HSLS expresses a positive political stance on crypto entrepreneurship and blockchain technology, and will advocate promoting the crypto entrepreneurship, creating a friendly regulatory environment to realise their numerous potentials for the Croatian economy. Also, since blockchain technology as a technology is based on trust, this trust has yet to be acquired, examples of successful technology use are needed to help liberals develop as many state services as possible based on blockchain. We also see that some of the counties and cities have set out in this direction to start municipal services on new platforms, especially in areas where this is reasonable. In view of the requirements for saving and reducing costs or transparency and public oversight or protection against manipulation. We also intend to actively promote and represent the gathering of crypts of entrepreneurs, as well as consumers who want to serve cryptic currencies as alternative means of exchange. This way I also call on all interested persons and associations to develop common policy-making in relation to crypto entrepreneurship and blockchain technology, and we specifically ask the Ministry of Finance to adapt the outdated provisions of the Law on the financing of political activities, election promotions or referendums in order to allow transparent financing of political activists and krypto currencies as a first step in the system of regulating the crypto currency from the entrepreneurial and consumer aspects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u58341	Next, we'll take a stand. On behalf of the Club of HNS, HSU and Independent Representatives, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u58342	Dear, esteemed Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. When a certain thesis in the public releases roots, it takes a very long time for public understanding or citizens to change. I risk a lot of criticism with this performance, a lot of criticism against me personally, but anyway, what do you want with the public appearance of politicians if you don't wake up some critical review and if there's no reaction to it? What's the thesis? The thesis for low pensions is the formula of harmonisation, the general theme in Croatia. Wrong. Low pensions are blamed for low wages during work, low contributions, less years of insurance training. We often compare ourselves, and we want pensions like the Germans, we compare with Germany, and the difference can be measured roughly as day and night or in worlds, in galaxies. German pensioners, their funds are as full as a ship. High wages, a lot of work, don't exclude any work from payment of contributions. They also have additional funds, factory or activity funds. Business and financial autonomy is paid from other sources, usually from the budget, entirely except pension. They do not have pensions according to special regulations, coordination is announced 9 months in advance. Here is now the latest announcement of 5.4.5.9% different for the former East and West Germany. So they prove that good wages also bring a good pension. Its below average salaries, which at age bring low pensions, subsidise so that citizens, of course, can from the budget, so that citizens can cover their housing costs. Know that over 75% live in rented apartments, so other than them and the cost of eating and minimum, minimum health standards. Where are we? We're synchronising twice a year on the 70:30 formula of a more favourable parameter. We can change it and give it 100% according to wages and 100% according to the cost of life, but low pensions will still remain low because the salaries have been small throughout the century and in no way in percentage increases can the pensions become satisfactory. We have pension payments that aren't covered by contributions, we have large payouts without payment of contributions, legally on the Regulation and illegally. We do not have business or financial autonomy of pension insurance, unfortunately the only one in the European Union and we will never have it again and it is money from our gross salaries and yours and all employees in the Republic of Croatia. We don't think, and we don't want to think about the future of society, of individual, of days of age, of sickness and of impotence. We're not fighting poverty, we're making it. We're not at the height of the mission. The mistakes we've made in the past, we're not correcting and we're declaring ourselves a social state. So when you're talking about this, give me a prescription on how to handle it. This is what you're contesting is that the harmonising formula won't increase pensions, so what do we do? We're just doing it. And last week, we passed a law that we're talking about not taking citizens to an additional health insurance policy. The next law will be on family pensions where we recognise paid contributions, but above all we must count people including property censorship, count people living in poverty and protect them to the highest possible level. How's that? So by introducing a pension allowance from the budget, an allowance to the cost of living, to the poverty threshold. Everyone in this country has a right to a dignified life. In Germany, the pension is a planned event for both the state and the citizens and the society as a whole. Our pension happens in most cases suddenly and under the greatest possible stress resulting in the increased improvement of our citizens in their age, i.e. in the retirement period. I hope the responsible understands this. I offer myself for any help.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u58343	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u58374	The next presentation of the position and on behalf of the Social Democrats Club, the respected representative Katica Glamuzina.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u58375	Dear Vice President HS, colleagues and colleagues, let's change the subject a little bit. The right to equal pay for equal work is one of the fundamental principles of the EU since the Treaty of Rome adopted in 1957, 63. Later in early 2020, EU Commissioner for Gender Equality declares that pay equality is one of the key principles of the new EU gender equality strategy. And another year later, in March of this 2021, the commission adopted a set of measures for the transparency of salaries that should ensure equal pay for equal work. Once Parliament and the Council approve it and a directive is adopted which then goes towards the Member States, they still have 2.g. to transpose that directive into national legislation. So, at best 65. After it is already guaranteed, women in the EU may not be discriminated against in valorising their work. Imagine what a monumental job it is when it lasts 65 years, how much it is and how deeply instilled discrimination when theoretically willing and troubles of a conscious Member State have been trying to solve it for 65 years. To tell you the truth, I don't even know what you'd think about it, if it's okay, if I'm going to be disappointed with what's going on in 65 years. Or pleased that he has such a shift. And a day marked today at EU level as a day of equal wages that symbolically marks the day of the year from which women work free of charge by the end of the year compared with men who continue to earn and still move a little, which is later in the year that famous pay gap lower. We got to November, it's not bad, it's scary, it's scary. Even if we got to 30.12. it's terrible, it's terrible because it's fundamentally unfair, and given the speed with which this injustice is being solved, we're still going to travel for 10 years to 31.12. With pensions, the story is even worse, the discriminatory differences are even bigger with even sadder coincidences. It is important to realize that while this injustice is directly happening to women, it is not only affecting them but also affecting their families, and it is not just financial impact, because the pay is not just money that is obtained. This salary is presented in society and a certain dimension, a sense of value and women are constantly sent by such discrimination that they are less valuable as members of society. Those according to this criterion are truly and sadly secondary because although gender equality is at least one of the fundamental principles of the EU, it is not the reality in which we live, it is just some utopian goal. The reality of women is still full of discrimination and the fact and existence of this day reminds us. In Croatia, the day is a little later, which would mean that we have a slightly smaller pay gap, but that is because the state apparatus is huge. The share of employees in public institutions and businesses compared to the total number of employees is abnormally large, and the salaries coming from the budget are defined by coefficients, so there is no legal differences in gender. There's a huge state apparatus that once served something positive even if it was just a tricky statistic. Because even though the coefficients solve a part of the problem don't solve the fact that women have less chance of progress, that there are fewer in management structures, that they have a glass ceiling set up, the coefficients don't solve the fact that we're a patriarchal society where women and workers and housewives and mothers and nurses are still expected to be paid for only one job and less than men on the same job. Croatia is patiently waiting for the mentioned eu measures to pass a number of administrative procedures, so in the form of a directive, it comes to us as an order for which we will have 2.g. Time to spend it. While we await orders from some countries have shown their own initiative and are already leaders in this matter and are already implementing measures and broader than those recommended by the EU on a beautiful day. How nice would it be if my country were among such leaders because success in implementing these measures was not determined by the economic well-being of the state. How nice it would be if we showed a little ambition, if we privatized it and showed the will to end that discrimination in our country. How nice it would be if we showed that Croatian women are valorized as Croatian men. Like I said before, utopian desires. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70702	Dear MPs and MPs, as we decided yesterday, are now moving to a united debate on the following two points: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts, first reading, P.Z. No. 207. - Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Areas and Seats of Courts, first reading. P.Z. No. 209. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing these items of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. The Minister of Justice and Administration, Mr Ivan Malenica, is here with us. Does he want to take a word for it? Do we have a break? Wait a minute. Who was it looking for? Here you go, Mrs. Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70703	I thank you on behalf of the Green-Left block club. I'm looking for a 10-minute recess to actually discuss once more in which atmosphere we are making these extremely important amendments to the Law on Courts, but also on the State's Attorney's Office and the Law on Attorneyship. So, we here today are in a position to discuss certain procedures in the judicial system, and at the same time we are aware that the head of the government is a party which, except as a legal person, has a conviction for a corrupt criminal offence. As of today, we know that all the stories of this being about some old HDZ are falling into the water. We received information, so the former government minister, if I am not mistaken by 2018, is arrested today by the office by order, so the European Public Prosecutor's Office for malfeasance with EU funds. The second thing, the information that also comes that of the four arrested persons has been arrested and someone who is the current state official. In addition, I note that Gabriela Zalac is also, although she is no longer a member of the HDZ presidency, so the party that is in power and which all these changes we are going to discuss today are now proposing. So I really need to ask you here how you expect citizens to have confidence that some judicial reform procedures are being done and that they are proposed by a party who is not only convicted of a corrupt crime, but whose officials are formerly and presently reportedly regularly, so on a monthly basis arrested for corrupt crimes. We have a serious crisis, a serious crisis of power that cannot be trusted. That's why I'm looking for a 10-minute break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70704	Thank you very much. He approves of a break. Mr. Grbin, SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70705	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary of State. Four law enforcement laws. When you look at them, there aren't too many controversial things. On the first ball, anything written in these laws could even be accepted. But what it says in these laws is, with all due respect, one big nothing. These are laws that are written as if Croatia has the judiciary in the ranks of the best judiciary in Europe or the general world. These are laws written as if Croatia had no problems in the judiciary, as if the number of pending cases did not grow from year to year, as if trust in the judiciary was not on the lowest branches across the EU. Dear colleagues and colleagues, these laws are one big nothing. We listened a few weeks ago to announce a major judicial reform in the media, including how to encourage the education of judges. And what did we get? We've received an end to the judge's obligation that even one time a year they have to conduct education. Now even that obligation that existed is no longer in the law and you removed it. Dear colleagues and colleagues, at the moment of criminal proceedings, the conduct of criminal proceedings is practically being saved by the European Public Prosecutor's Office. The European Public Prosecutor's Office, which began working several months ago today, is already giving results on the issue of a member of the HDZ presidency, Mrs Gabriela Žalac. Since 2019, this whole affair and all its elements have been known in public. The Office of the European Public Prosecutor should be set up to start something from a dead end, and this respected colleague and colleague is the best indicator of the situation in the judiciary, and we propose this thanks to this least said /thank you nicely/ camel of the Law. It's a shame.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70706	This break is also approved and is called for. 293 b Rules of Procedure continue immediately. Mr. Malenica, please explain these two laws on behalf of the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70707	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. Amendments and additions to the Law on Courts shall be revised by the regulatory framework of permanent judicial witches, assessors and interpreters. In addition, provisions on officials working in the affairs of the insurance of judicial authorities and the Directors of the judicial administration are being amended and are introduced, and the obligation to carry out a special expert examination for court officials is introduced. In addition to this legislative proposal, the establishment of specialised family departments at the Municipal Courts of County Courts shall be specified, the powers of the High Criminal Court shall be specified, the questions related to the election of the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia shall be specified, and periodic security checks shall be imposed on all judges. As regards security checks, the Law on the State Judiciary Council provides for the implementation of a security check prior to the appointment of the judges and the Law on Courts of Obligations for Judges and Judicial Officers working on so-called jump-starting cases. With this legislative proposal, we propose introducing mandatory security checks for all judges every 5 years from their entry into service. The presidents of the courts will submit requests for the renewal of the security clearance to the security intelligence agency. A final assessment of the existence of security obstacles on the basis of the report shall be carried out by a special council whose members of the Supreme Court shall appoint a general session of the Supreme Court. The President of the Supreme Court will inform authorised applicants of the strict procedure of the possible existence of security obstacles. For all judges for whom a security check has not been carried out or carried out more than 5 years ago, the obligation to renew security checks shall be prescribed. As regards the election of the President of the Supreme Court in accordance with the constitutional court's legal considerations in the procedure of assessing the constitutionality of the applicable decision of the Court Act, provisions on the procedure for the election of the President of the Supreme Court shall be specified. The State Judicial Council will only provide the President of the Republic with timely and complete applications. If the President of the Republic does not propose a candidate for the President of the Supreme Court within 15 days of the date of receipt of the opinion of the relevant Assembly Committee and of the General Session of the Supreme Tribunal, then the State Judicial Council will annul the call and, no later than 8 days, resume the selection procedure of the President of the Supreme Court. In the event that the President of the Supreme Court is suspended from office and the new President of the Supreme Court is not elected, the State Judicial Council will appoint a Supreme Court judge to carry out the affairs of the judicial administration until the President is appointed. I would like to remind you that according to the applicable Law on Courts until the election of the President of the Supreme Court, the cases of the Court of Justice shall be carried out by the Deputy President of the Supreme Court designated by the annual schedule of affairs. This amendment therefore better addresses the issue of replacing the President of the Supreme Court. As regards the Court’s experts, evaluators and interpreters, since the existing system of decision-making on the status issues of permanent judicial witches, evaluators and interpreters generates certain unequal practice because they are referred to as County and Commercial Courts. These amendments give the power to the Ministry of Justice. This will more clearly define their rights and obligations and control mechanisms, and Court interpreters and witches will be more strongly integrated into the judicial system according to standardised and equal conditions for all courts. In addition, given that a fundamental difference has been lost over time between permanent judicial experts and evaluators, it is proposed to abolish a special arrangement for permanent judicial assessors, so the appointed Court evaluators will continue to carry out their duties as court experts. In addition, the abolition of the 4-year period of appointment and the permanent appointment of them are proposed, so long as there are prescribed conditions, and the status of the Court of Justice will no longer be recognised in particular by legal persons, but it is about transactions that are carried out solely in person. When we talk about family departments introduced by these amendments to the Law in order to ensure effective and quality legal protection in family-law cases, specialised judicial departments will be established at the Municipal Courts established by the Special Law. Only judges who meet the specific conditions of professional training to be governed by a special Regulation may be assigned to those departments. These judges will be appointed president of the Supreme Court for five years. In addition to these amendments, these judicial departments will in particular deploy a number of professional associates according to a specific decision by the Minister responsible for the affairs of the judiciary. As regards other changes to the Law on Courts in order to further encourage the professional training of judges, provisions on professional training are also amended. The dynamics of compulsory professional training will be determined by a special Regulation which will prescribe more than one time a year of professional training, as so far it has been regulated in the Law itself. The process of recognising the right of judicial officials to compensation for a separate life defines the concept of family members. The provisions of this Act relating to officials of judicial authorities shall also comply with the provisions of the Law governing the status of officials or judicial officers in the prison system, so that the issue of the presence of alcohol in the body during the course of their work, the non-compliance with the implementation of the security check, which is one and the other reason, is a serious violation of the official duty. As I said, the status issues of judicial officers in ensuring judicial authorities are in line with the provisions of the Penal Code. When it comes to the Directors of the Court of Justice, the conditions for the schedule are also specified and it is prescribed that the Director of the Court of Justice shall have all the major courts or those with more than 15 judges and all the higher courts. The role of the High Criminal Court in criminal proceedings is also specified and will be given the authority of the High Criminal Court, as has the High Criminal Court in criminal proceedings. This proposal also introduces the obligation to carry out a specific expert examination or specific part of an expert examination for court officials. In the case of amendments and additions to the Law on the Areas and Seats of Courts, these amendments shall ensure more effective family and legal protection and shall change the jurisdiction of the county courts to decide on complaints against decisions by all municipal courts in civil cases. The Law on Areas and Seats of Courts and stipulates that municipal courts in county courts are competent to decide in matters governed by family relations. These changes establish 15 family departments. Since the existing system of allocation of civil cases to second-degree bodies rarely generates an unequal workload affecting the time of resolution of second-degree cases, these amendments are also prescribed to decide on complaints against all decisions of municipal courts in civil cases by all county courts. Also due to the significant extent of maritime transport in the ports of Dubrovnik and Ploče and the large number of hotel catering facilities in the area of Dubrovnik-Neretva County, which generates a number of items relating to ships and navigation of these changes, the actual jurisdiction of the Commercial Court in Dubrovnik is also prescribed in these types of cases. In this way, we will disburse the Commercial Court in Split as the second most burdened trade court in Croatia. The esteemed representatives and advocates are witnessing unfortunately the low trust of our citizens in the Croatian judiciary. I am convinced that these changes can make further steps to make the judiciary more effective and restore some of the lost trust. The introduction of periodic security checks is considered an important tool for orderly conduct of judicial duties. They do not in any way constitute the interference and interference of the executive or security services in the work of the judicial authority. It will be implemented in accordance with the law taking due account of all the rules of the profession. Any security obstacles or overlaps will be decided by the sole competent professional bodies, the collective body at the Supreme Court and the finality of the State Judicial Council, and if a strict procedure is to be initiated. These amendments will in no way affect any of the fundamental principles of the rule of law, which is the independence of the judiciary, nor will judges be allowed to, but will allow judges to make known all the facts identified in the security checks. I believe that in this debate that follows these legal proposals we will have an open dialogue and a constructive debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70708	Thank you, Mr. Minister. As you can see, you have a lot of replicas. But first we have Mr. Grmoy who'll explain I'm taking a break, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70709	I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Bridge Club to consult on these legal proposals. So, as we witness corruption affairs at every step of the week that our Ministry of Justice is dealing with. I don't know if the public call will be repeated within 8, 15 or 30 days here are the only changes to the judge's security clearance, and we know that these Osijek judges who have been hanging out with Zdravko Mamic have passed these security checks, so this is not a reform of the judiciary, and that's what we're discussing today when the European Public Prosecutor's Office actually arrested a member of the HDZ presidency, former Minister Gabrielo Žalac. This is so far the biggest shower so far to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, to you Minister Malenica. I don't know if you feel it on your cheek. So, because it turns out that our institutions are not self-prepared to face corruption and crime, but European institutions need to deal with your ministers, your members of the Presidency. But this isn't all, this isn't all. Your corrections are coming up. When the adjustments come, then the balloon will be worse than Agrokor by paying for Croatian citizens and European funds. Remember what I told you today. Corrections from European funds and projects will be so much so that it will be such a blow to the Croatian budget and citizens that it is indescribable, all because of the inability and protection of crime by Andrej Plenkovic, you personally and everyone in the government and what you are dealing with, how long the public call will take.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70710	Thank you. Time. The flat shall also be approved under the same Article 293b. Don't stay, stay here. Stanka is approved and we continue to work immediately, with replicas. Mr. Damir Habian's first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70711	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Ministers, you have already touched security clearance issues in your opening explanation. So, as we already know, all judges are passing security checks at the first appointment, even the jumpers already have periodic checks, so every five years. Now it's being conducted for all the judges to have that periodical check. In view of this, you have kind of touched this by saying in the opening argument, however, there are already certain indications by the opposition MPs that it is actually about insinuating the executive authority in the work of the judicial authority, so please, if you can briefly use this time to explain the specific procedure or to see, avoid any doubt that there is no. And just one more comment if you can. Here you mentioned that all of these changes, this package of laws of 5 actually represents cosmetics, camels, that they're embarrassing. I would then ask if the creation of family departments, the security check, the professional training, the alignment with the legal gain for some parliamentary MPs is a camel?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70712	Thank you very much. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70713	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Therefore, the concept of security checks provided for by these amendments and additions to the Law on Courts, and also by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Attorney's Office which was later discussed, provided for a way for the President of the Court to request a security check for his judges. And when the Security Intelligence Agency carries out a security check and makes a report on the security check it provides to the President of the Supreme Court, where a single committee is actually formed at the Supreme Court, one body, therefore a general session of the Supreme Court, shall form a single body that will actually determine whether certain obstacles exist in the safety review report, which affect the independence and independence of the courts themselves. And after that, they will, if there are these obstacles, therefore, initiate a strict procedure before the State Judicial Council. So there's no influence, it's influencing the executive authorities in this process.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70714	Thank you. Thank you very much. Mr. Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70715	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister, I would have one particular question, therefore, with an example from practice. Namely, the prosecutor sued an insurance company where the court ordered an expert. The expert has developed a skill that I don't know if the butter dog would lick, so that eventually the prosecutor would know that the expert is working part-time for the sad insurance company. He asked for the exception of the said warlock. Normally, a new one has been appointed, which has brought a diametric opposite skill from this first one. The question I'm going to ask you is going in the direction, so this first warlock didn't answer anything, he wasn't sanctioned with anything. How do you plan to eliminate these phenomena from court practice and prevent any form of artificial hens that exist in the system? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70716	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70717	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So in practice we have learned that there are certain problems in the appointment of court witches, and also in their work. So far, all the presidents, i.e. in charge of the county courts, have been the choice of judicial warlocks, or their work. On these amendments we are therefore centralizing this procedure, so through sublegal acts we will rightly regulate these situations which you have brought here now to prevent such practices of experts that lead to biased skills and their work in a way that there will be a special sector and administration at the Ministry of Justice and Administration that will be in charge of court and interpreters who will actually control the work or status issues of all the witches, and thus answer your questions which you have now asked here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70718	Mr Milanović litre.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70719	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament. Dear Ministers, first of all, would like to express my satisfaction that you have listened to the profession and changed Article 126 and have allowed many people in Croatia to continue to do their job for the past 10 years. I have a few questions about this law, actually, they're getting attached in some way. First of all, why did it give up the Court Witch Act that was scheduled for 2017? Do you consider that? does the Ministry consider the existing regulatory framework adequate, if not when and in what way do you plan to change it? And what may be interesting, since 98, the salary of the witches has remained on the same level. Can the Ministry of Justice find at least one profession with the value of work unchanged for the last 20 years, and more or less has been reduced by 20% in certain cases? And when is the intention of this unsustainable state to change?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70720	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70721	Thank you very much. Dear Representative, so back a few months ago, we had a series of meetings with representatives and associations representing experts, so more associations representing court experts and interpreters, and we actually reached a certain agreement, and their agreement and their support for these amendments to the Law on Courts. These meetings also raised a question of a special law that will regulate the issue of court and interpreters, as well as the question of compensation, and in this direction we will begin with certain preparations for the adoption of new rules that will regulate the exclusive status of court interpreters and warlocks. And we will certainly analyse fees or tariffs for court interpreters and warlocks that have not changed for many years so that they are some sort of course of action in the next period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70722	Mrs. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70723	I thank the Vice President of the Parliament. Dear Ministers, the establishment of specialised family departments or the specialisation of judges for working on status and family matters is foreseen by the National Strategy for the Rights of Children for the period 2014 to 2020 adopted by the Government in September 2014. We are now at the end of 2021 and the National Strategy has expired in 2020. When do you plan to bring it in, because we are aware that one of the strategic documents governing the right protection of children is this same strategy that has not yet been adopted? And I'm curious, why only 15 family departments are set up, why not 21? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70724	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70725	So family departments are established in municipal courts in county courts. So we have come to that number by analysing the number of cases in these courts and the sufficient number of judges who can cover all these cases relating to family law, and the strategy is done. I believe she will be brought in in due course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70726	Mrs. Vidovic Kristo.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70727	Mr Malenica, the European Commission has found that the Croatian judiciary is the worst throughout the European Union, and also over 90% of Croatian citizens view the Croatian judiciary as bad. Justice is dominated by people from south-centralitarianism, for example Your State Secretary Juro Martinovic was a judge in JNA, Constitutional Court President Miroslav Šeparović was a lawyer in JNA, Judge Marin Mrčela was a Communist judge, Judge Damir Kos was also a Communist judge and so I could list it indefinitely. I cited the results of these people at the beginning. Their work is the main cause of corruption and poverty stemming from this corruption. Tell me, Mr Malenica, is the European Commission right about the Croatian judiciary or is Plenkovic and the corrupt media who claim that the judiciary is perfectly fine and that these South-Eastern lawyers are excellent experts?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70728	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70729	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Therefore, this Law on Courts and the Law on Areas and Seats of Courts, as well as the Law on State Attorneys, therefore go in this direction to restore trust in the judiciary through amendments or the introduction of individual institutes such as security checks. I believe that the security checks to be carried out in the next period and if certain obstacles are identified in them will result in strict procedures and certain consequences resulting from these restrictive procedures. So as far as your findings are concerned, so the government is actively working to improve the justice system. We are aware of perceptions, negative perceptions of the judiciary itself. There are certain problems in the judiciary. However, through changes to the legislative framework, we are certainly going to address these problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70730	Thank you, too. Mrs. Vidovic Kristo requested a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70731	That's right, Mr. Chairman. Article 238 of the common law has been injured, so this is the humiliation of parliamentary deputies because you are not answering any questions that are being asked.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70732	It was a replica of course, so there's a reminder. Mr. Peja Grb's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70733	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, several times when the laws on courts and the laws on state attorneys were amended we talked about the need for greater security changes and this was introduced here, although I think it can be further developed in a way that, instead of every 5 years, it is predicted to be at least once every 5 years. Because sometimes even a competent state attorney or judge will assess that it may be necessary. I'm sorry, the court's President in charge. However, one area remained unsecured in the Law on Courts, so in the Law on State Lawyers, it is not clear who and within what time the security check is carried out by the President of the Supreme Court and the Attorney General, and he thinks that this is extremely important because it is the leaders of the two systems. And if we don't control the leaders, then the famous question remains who controls those who control them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70734	Time. Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70735	Thank you very much, Your Honor, for your constructive proposal. So when we talk about the election of the Supreme Court president, so if he comes from the judiciary, so if he comes from courts or state lawyers, then he will pass a regular periodic security check every five years under this new law. So, in fact, when he is elected President of the Supreme Court, he will be checked by the basis of these amendments and the addition of the Law on Courts. The same will be the state's attorney or attorney general if it comes from the system of the state's attorney or the judiciary, so by the basis of this law he will be checked. And on the other hand, when the President of the Supreme Court comes out of the justice system, he becomes the Supreme Court judge for which there is a obligation also to check, to conduct a security check in the election of the Supreme Court judge. So with these amendments and the existing legislative framework, we have covered both the situation for the Supreme Court president and the Attorney General.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70736	Thank you very much. ... Donkey. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70737	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I would first of all like to express my satisfaction with the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Areas and Seats of Courts, which are primarily brought in order to ensure more effective family and legal protection, and in particular the protection of children by establishing specialised judicial departments in municipal courts, but also by further specialising judges, that the Ministry recognized this not only in an adequate way, but also by the time-right manner the reports of the Ministry of Interior which say that minors appear less and less as perpetrators of criminal offences, and more and more as victims of criminal offences and that crimes against marriage, family and children account for a share of 45.1% of the total criminal offences. So I believe that this very step at this time will bring exactly what is currently needed, and this is greater protection for both children and family members.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70738	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70739	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Yes, therefore, the formation of family departments in 15 municipal courts in county courts will further increase the level of family and legal protection in all these cases. But what is even more important is that these judges who judge these cases will be further educated through the programs that we are preparing through the Judicial Academy. And what is important is that these judges will have the support of professional associates in the form of psychologists, educators who will have some added value and additional knowledge in these specificities of these proceedings in which they will be tried. So we are going in this direction to make the judiciary, that this system of fate be adapted to both minors and children, to make it easier for them in the highest, most possible way, to make this situation that they therefore approach to the court. So I believe that with these family departments and specialized judges, we're going to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70740	Mrs. Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70741	Dear Ministers, according to this Bill proposal, you have already also commented on the Ministry or the Minister's authority to establish a list of court and assessors what the county courts have done so far. You've commented that it's centralization and some kind of unification of practice. However, it cannot be disputed that it is in some way actually strengthening the executive authority in relation to the judicial one. This is in itself problematic, and especially now in a situation where the actual executive power is being carried out by a party convicted of corruption and whose members of the Presidency are being arrested today or even by current state officials. ... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70742	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70743	Thank you very much. So we have seen that there is an inequality of the conduct of county courts in relation to judicial interpreters and court experts in the part of their determination to meet their requirements. So neither the minister nor the executive authority will hire and appoint a court interpreter and court expert in a particular case. It will continue to be done by judges in those cases. Therefore, we will only determine or even this practice of treating all judicial experts and interpreters in terms of their status rights, meeting their conditions. So no more appointments for four years but permanent appointments. So here are the talks with representatives of the Association of Judicial Experts and Court Interpreters, so they welcomed this proposal in the Law on Courts. I believe that through the reflection and preparation of a new Law on Judicial Interpreters and Witches, the whole system that mainly refers to status issues, not to solving and acting in a particular case, will be as high-quality as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70744	Mr. Bice.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70745	... rarely when attitudes are actually in line. [[Specially enabled.]] The European Commission, Croatian citizens and you, Mr Minister, have actually expressed doubts about the Croatian judiciary on the basis of the fact that there is such public opinion in Croatia, such is the opinion of the European Commission and, of course, your opinion that this must change. As soon as something has to change, it exists. When we talk about justice, it's of course the last... The rights of Croatian citizens to protect, but also foreign investors who do not come to Croatia for many research. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And before us is actually one set of reform laws. The government document says we need to make a modern judiciary ready for future challenges. So now I ask you whether our judiciary is modern and ready, not for future challenges, but for the current amendment of this law that doesn't really change anything but some technical details.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70746	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70747	Thank you very much. So other than these changes that are presented today, and some of them will be in the next period. Thus, the Croatian judiciary certainly goes in this direction to be ready for future challenges. So this also shows the National Resistance and Recovery Plan where we have 13 reforms, 6 investments totaling 730 million kuna, and this shows the fact that back 5 years are significant funds invested not only in digitisation but also in judicial infrastructure. However, in addition to digitisation and judicial infrastructure, there is a very good quality of having a good legislative framework. I believe that these security changes, which I would particularly point out, but also family departments will certainly contribute to more effective protection especially in family-law cases, and security checks will certainly contribute both partially and restore citizens' trust in the institutions of the judicial authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70748	Mr. Ante Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70749	Thank you, Vice President, Your Honor. It is precisely on the trail of your response to what exactly the situation is related to judicial infrastructure, how much funds have been invested so far and how much will be invested in the coming years. We know that the works on the Stand building in Split have already moved away. It will be relocated by the Municipal Court in Split, but we know that the effective judiciary is not only sufficient for the quality rules that we bring here and which you bring to the ministry are already important working conditions and the work organisation itself. We often hear from the President of the Courts, so here we are from the new President of the Supreme Court who often comment on both spatial deficits and the state of the buildings in which they are located, especially now at the time of the pandemic, that I cannot hold a single debate, so I am interested in what is the plan of the ministry in the field of infrastructure itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70750	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70751	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So, as important as it is a good, quality legislative framework for the handling of courts and judges, it is also important to invest in judicial infrastructure and digitisation. Here, as I mentioned earlier, about 500 million kuna has been invested over the past 5 years in judicial infrastructure, approximately 200 million kunas in digitisation. So this was somehow the starting point for further reforms under the National Resistance and Recovery Plan, but also for the next multiannual financial framework where we will, therefore, further improve this system primarily when we talk about digitisation. There's an e-script system, an e-communication system that we intend to further improve, and also a judicial infrastructure that actually all judges have adequate working conditions. What I would really point out is that when the Covid-19 pandemic appeared, the ministry reacted without delay, thus allowing the purchase of information equipment, so that all courts, the maintenance of the hearing can be continued uninterrupted.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70752	Thank you. Mr. Grmoya.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70753	Thank you, Your Honor. I said everything in my apartment that I think about these laws of yours that are actually just some kind of change of technical details, except for these security checks. I don't know if you know that we always trade with Slovakia by perception of corruption. So here's counterpart Kristo saying that we are at the top of the European Union by the perception of corruption. Slovakia is 2014. Introduce these security checks to the judges, so that their Supreme Court would lift it and that measure did not get any results. Before the measure was abolished, they were champions, so they took other more concrete steps. They have a special court for judges and state lawyers, meaning that they are persecuting those judges who are wronged and state lawyers who sin against the law. And their chief state attorney ended up in prison. Maybe that's a good way to go, not this kind of change.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70754	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70755	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So we have a similar concept in Croatia. Therefore, there is a State Judicial Council and a State Attorney's Council which implements security procedures. And it is precisely this concept of security checks that is designed in such a way that, when there is a certain obstacle set out in the Security Intelligence Agency's report on the security check carried out, if that obstacle is such that it affects the independence and independence of the conduct of the judicial duties, then a tight procedure can be initiated and, therefore, an independent body will, therefore, establish the existence of strict responsibility for judges and the State Attorney's Council when we talk about state attorneys, so in its procedure under the rules of criminal proceedings, so to establish the existence of strict responsibility and to impose certain sanctions. Well, if that's the case, then he can make a decision about off-duty behavior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70756	Thank you very much. The last replica, Mr. Vrkljan.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70757	Dear Minister, two weeks ago and a week ago here in the Parliament, we were talking about companies that don't have a single employee and last year, according to FINA, 20 billion kunas of income. I asked the governor of the Croatian National Bank who said it was in the domain of the finance minister. When I asked that question, Minister Maric, he told me that it was legally regulated and that the DORH should be contacted. And he kind of referred me to you, and I'm asking you here now because it's 20 billion kuna companies that don't have an employee in Croatia and we in Croatia of 160,000 companies have 41,000 just like this. I wonder if you personally see this problem as a problem and do you see this corruption and crime?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70758	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70759	Thank you, counsel. So at this point, I wouldn't be talking about corruption and crime in such companies, and here I am not familiar with the work and the situation, but here I can check what it's about, so I give you a more detailed answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70760	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Vrkljan.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70761	Here I will take another minute of my own, so as Minister, I ask that this answer which I expect and which I have not received from two ministers, and now it has come to you obviously asking that answer in writing.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70762	Mr. Vrkljan, the Rules of Procedure are the law and it is not for debate and conversation. He's for the injury, which is why you have a warning, and now we're going to have a debate about the Rules of Procedure soon because it's not how it works anymore, obviously. You want to answer that? Okay. ... I'm sorry, it was a violation of the Rules of Procedure. [[-Bukarica raider, you don't understand.]] Okay. You don't have any more replicas. Would the representatives of the board like to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first is Mr. Daniel Spajic in front of the House Movement Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70763	Honorable chairman, respected ministers, secretary of state, respected colleagues and colleagues. After this opening enthusiasm, the minister of the proposed law presented as part of the HDZ Anti-Corruption Package comes up with nothing more than the conclusion that this government solves the problem of the corrupt judiciary with a few legal provisions, in such a way that, in the image and work of the Minister of Justice, it politically affects the independence and independence of the judiciary. In this regard, I must remind the circumstances that the Republic of Croatia is at the bottom of an EU member's scale when it comes to public perception of judicial independence. The defeating data showed that the large trade of citizens of the Republic of Croatia is considered, and the state of independence of the judiciary is pretty bad or very bad. The European Commission has also examined the reasons for such perception, and has come to the conclusion that the root reason for mistrust in the judiciary is that courts are under the considerable influence of the government and politicians. On security checks, any anti-corruption measure is welcome, of course, assuming it fulfils its function. The motion for security checks on judges contained in this bill is completely irrational because the government is trying to strengthen its influence on the rule of law under anti-corruption. On Day 31. This Decision shall enter into force on In total, 1675 judges were held in all courts, which means that on average 335 judges on an annual basis would be covered by a security check. If the persons who propose such a solution are aware of how security checks are carried out at all, what type of checks will be carried out, and it is particularly unclear that there will be a security obstacle and whether the Agency will be able to carry out that amount of checks in a quality way. Since various social phenomena such as the general migration trends engage more and more significant SOA capacities. It is totally unacceptable that, in addition to the State Judicial Council, the assessment of the existence of a security obstacle is brought by judges appointed by the General Session of the Supreme Court. In order to avoid any ambiguity, I will be free to read the constitutional provision which reads: The State Judicial Council is an independent and independent body that ensures the independence and independence of the judicial authority in the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with the Constitution and the law, the State Judicial Council shall decide independently on the appointment, promotion, relocation, resolution and responsibilities of judges and court presidents other than the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the inclusion of a general session of the Supreme Court in this process of respected ministers, you are dissuasing the Government's representative by the Constitution of a guaranteed function of the State Judicial Council. Also, the submission of requests for the renewal of security checks through the Ministry of Justice as well as the delivery of information on the existence of security barriers to the Minister of Justice is totally unnecessary interference. On the other hand, it is totally unacceptable that various judicial bodies are involved in the process with the Minister, and the State Judicial Council has been left out. For this reason, we are opposed to this quantitative periodical solution and we believe that security checks would be meaningful, have a positive supervisory effect if they were thoroughly and qualitatively implemented in specific cases in which there are certain indications that indicate abuse of duty. In this regard, your predecessor Mr. Drazen Bosnjakovic announced almost two years ago that the government would discuss whether mandatory security checks should be returned to officials as ministers, state secretaries, but also the assistants you still have in your ranks, which was abolished by Milanovic's Government in July 2012. It is evident that the Security Checks Act since 2012 It is also not touched that the relationship of the Prime Minister, Minister and State Secretary's trust continues to apply, although you were obliged to prepare it in the second quarter of this year, according to the legislative plan. As far as the experts and interpreters are concerned, the Government considers that the decision on their status is additionally burdensome to the courts and that the revision of the normative framework is important because of the unequal case-law of this proposal, it addresses this inequality in an incredible way by determining that the experts and interpreters, so the experts who need to assist the court in determining and clarifying the facts are appointed, supervised and resolved by a more accurate justice minister. In fact, it means that these same witches appointed by the minister, which is also dependent on him, will be skillful in cases where, for example, the Republic of Croatia or the political party. It would be interesting to see the final outcome of a procedure in which experts so-elected an expert in the proceedings against a political party who has been legally convicted of robbery. Simplifiedly, the executive power in a very perfiduous way enters the court. When it comes to directors, it is important to recall that their introduction is announced more effectively as a managerial position, whose duty is to rationalise the management of judicial resources. But reality is completely different. As a rule, the existing court secretaries, without any management competences, became directors and reached the sums of the court's salaries, and no one can see the results of their work, and they can't be seen because it doesn't exist. So obviously that's why this proposal of duties that they need to fulfil are being passed on to the presidents of the courts. The revision of the conditions for the conduct of judicial inspection tasks consists of the introduction of jobs. We can only assume that this is about new employment which, according to the knowledge, is very intense in your portfolio since you took office as a respected minister. But the most important element is who are the ones who can do these jobs? The government says they should have experience in the proper jobs. Should these inspectors have any experience in working in courts in order to control their work at all, obviously, is irrelevant. According to the proposal, specialisation is planned by introducing judicial departments for the handling of family cases in municipal courts, with the criteria for working among other things expressing a tendency to raise, need and break children. It will be interesting to see who and how these tendencies will be established. On the other hand, the amendments to the Law on Areas and Seats of Courts are proposed to abolish specialisation in secondary courts without the proposal being backed by analytical bases, so we can conclude that the Government contradicts itself and does not know what it is doing. With a new law on the system of state administration that you had debated more than two years ago about the depolitisation relating to the abolition of ministerial assistant posts and the introduction of a director of the kitchen that comes from your management resolution, please respond to the ministers until when in your ministry, the symbiosis of HDZ's policy and HDZ judges will last until they sit in your ministry as assistant judge minister who was a candidate for the HDZ parliamentary list of judges in 2020. Yes, you heard well, although the law forbids judges to be members of a political party or to deal with the political activity of the ban does not exist when it comes to HDZ. Please also answer the Ministers to the question of how many squares of the state's apartment are the citizens of this country paying while she is in Zagreb, and the family is in Split, squares for one or more persons or maybe we are paying her for a separate life? You are talking about fighting corruption, and with these actions you are also promoting every step of what we are witnessing these days and when it comes to your Minister Banozic, who is an ordinary "pilician", a minister who did not serve the army. State squares you like it is safe. I'll tell you never to mix what was made to be separated. Since this proposal violates the principle of tri-division of the government of the Homeland Movement club, it cannot and will not support the proposed amendments to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70764	Now it is Mr. Ante Kujundzic who will speak on behalf of the Most Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70765	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, respected Croatian public. So we're going to talk about the proposed amendments and the one and the other laws through a few points. Therefore, in the first place, the revision of the normative framework of permanent judicial experts, evaluators and interpreters is in fact one form of status issues that really needs to be regulated, given that they are a very important factor in the judicial process itself, since most judicial proceedings and cases are practically based on their expert opinion and in most cases the decision of the court is, in fact, the sole consequence of their expert opinion, and no judge will, let's say, blamble and make his decision if it were to disagree with the expert opinion of the experts. For this reason, both experts and appraisers should indeed be better regulated by legal and sublegal acts and their engagement should be regulated in precision given the importance of the functions they perform as such. Their role in the judicial process is greatly valorised by their awards, and therefore they should take part of the responsibility for everything negative that happens as a consequence of their engagement or not engagement, other than the proposal to unify the same through the legislative framework within the meaning of their list, and it is necessary that through the legislative framework in a quality way they are regulated and their responsibility that due to the damages suffered, for example, the arrival of the parties and lawyers at the hearing of the witch does not appear with a strict explanation because there are other obligations. Therefore, both due to the damages suffered in the main debate process and their responsibility by professional associations and the court itself. In particular, they can be given a certain form of punishment or eradication from the very list of witches if, on the professional side, their opinion is lacking or contrary to the rules of the profession, often believing or not because they are either bought or working for both sides. It is also a common case that witches avoid coming into smaller courts as a type of my Imotski, Sinj, Vrgorac, and because of such behaviour, the main debates are delayed and the proceedings themselves are delayed, and when they show up after a few delays then they regularly beg the judges not to be called anymore because they are invaluable for example. to come to an Imotski. The judges themselves can say that I don't appoint judges, I have to beg him because if he doesn't come, I won't solve the case. So, these behaviors as if they were one form of holy cow are certainly what should not be permitted because in one hand and underestimating for all other participants of the judicial process because if an expert is already well paid for his job, and it is because in Imotski he still gets a daily and costs per mile and his one performance often costs as, that would not sound pathetic, but often costs as one woman's salary in Studenac, then the same expert should approach that court and do his job and under real sanctions if he refuses to execute the job would be deleted from the very list of witches. So it would certainly have to form a uniform body that would receive data from the judges themselves. In fact, one form of complaint which experts, therefore, do not do their job by name and according to this data, should systematically punish what has actually been a kind of dead letter on paper in practice. With regard to the correction of the appraisers themselves, it is therefore important that it has been done in itself for a long time, because no one else, nor does he call himself an appraiser anymore, is more or less all in one domain of so-called witches. As far as introducing the Director of the Court of Justice is concerned, this function, looking at the way the judicial administration has functioned so far, is totally unnecessary because the same essentially does not get anything, since so far the President of the Court has all the powers that the judiciary could have done functionally. Unfunctioning of the judicial administrations is primarily a consequence of the incompetence of the President of the Court and only adds a few more arrests to the system to be managed by the court. It would be better and more effective for the system, for example, to add for this money a number of referents more in the land books or court advisors more to solve land-based book cases which, in addition to damages, make up most of the cases in smaller courts of the municipal court in Makarska. And the number that can also be reduced to a minimum in a way that changes to the provisions of the Law on Land Books extends the possibility of carrying out individual proper procedures that are, above all, simpler, faster, and then cheaper, and generally led by judicial advisors from zk-references, which is an additional blessing because it shows the need for such items, let's call them less importance on paper, there will be a need to hire additional staff while judges do more important things and thus be more relaxed in the context of their own work. Additional employment should in no way benefit management personnel who have no major impact on efficiency in general, that is clear to you. As regards the passing of a special expert examination for court officials, therefore the expert examination should be suspended for all in the Republic of Croatia and so on for this category. Unless the provisions on the same exams are changed, there may be something serious that proves the examination of the type of judicial examination, and otherwise for all the different forms of passing exams there is Josipa Rimac. As far as the High Criminal Court in the Republic of Croatia is concerned, it's definitely a well-imagined project. If there's any seriousness and will to deal with problems in a criminal trial. If it's representative as an example of the verdict we could read about these days, and it's about the mayor of the city of Imotsky, so I think you're familiar with it then it would be better if we didn't even have a criminal court. As far as the subject matter itself is concerned, which regulates the family relationship, or family legal matters, is also a principle of praise for the project. However, this law only creates preconditions that changes could be made to family matters. However, we are always left with a lot of problems of a procedural nature that make these things in a bad way. So, lawyers don't like these things for reasons because most of them are the same in the bar fee with 2,000 kuna for the whole first-degree procedure, and the job has the same or more as in the other branches of the judiciary. With this legal solution and dislocating from smaller backgrounds, I'm afraid the parties will have to look for lawyers in the place where they edit the department and the parties will have less legal protection and will be discriminated against because surely the Imotski lawyer will not want to conduct the procedure in Split for 2,000 kuna and drive to a few hearings. Perhaps this is a beneficial solution for an effective form by the court, so turn away all those who have family problems and step away from the court, so here in itself this one will sort it out somehow. The specialisation of judges in terms of more effective family legal protection has not so far contributed to the greater efficiency of judges or to the quality resolution of these types of cases. Theoretically speaking, if you really go beyond these negativitys that will have to be solved, this idea envisaged by the law could then be relieved of smaller courts and a quality level of legal protection could be achieved for this category of parties that are actually most sensitive. However, in practice and now in larger courts, we have judges who only work this kind of case. And they did not make special progress in professional terms or actually, nor did they actually raise one form of level, so the very quality of running such a process. Moreover, only the procedural progress has been made because such items have special procedures, but in essence nothing has changed, and in these cases it is largely done on a superficial and unprofessional basis. And for the consequence, it's actually a form of lack of law and institutions that are also involved in these procedures, so the welfare center and I'm not counting any further. I will mention it to you for the end, and I am attached to the final debate on what I am still saying, one example from Split, so that for years there have been judges who judge exclusively items of family law. So, the grandson sues Grandpa and Grandma for restraints he doesn't get from his father. The complaint was filed in 2017. Grandpa and Grandma object because they're not in a good financial situation. To this day, 14 hearings have been held, and now it has been postponed indefinitely because some documentation is awaiting. And for all that time, the child is already on the verge of adulthood and probably lives on the verge of existence. So it's about a judge who specializes in this area, the procedure isn't over yet, and my time is coming out and I'll see you in final. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70766	Thank you. Mr. Dario Hrebak will speak in front of the club representatives of HSLS and Reformists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70767	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Fellow Members and fellow MPs, the law, respected ministers with the Secretary of State, the Law on Courts represents for us Liberals a very important law of HSLS, in general, of this amendment of the law proposed as positive, but there are certain solutions that we are not fully satisfied with in the proposed form that we have received or which we consider to have lagged behind, which is why we want to use this debate precisely to address these certain things. The Law on Courts guarantees the independence, independence and impartiality of courts, starting with Article 2 of which courts are defined as bodies of the state authority that exercise judicial authority independently and independently within the framework of the delirious and jurisdiction of a certain law until Article 89, which stipulates that the judge must behave in such a way as to safeguard his or her reputation, reputation of the judicial authority and does not question his impartiality and independence in the trial and independence of the judicial authority. However, it is known that our citizens today have an ever worse perception of the independence of these very judges. In particular, it is the worst among all EU Member States, according to data provided in the report addressed to the EU judiciary review for 2021 published by the European Commission in July this year. Weak faith in the judiciary leads to uncertainty in society and raises the very purpose of law, legal regulations, judicial authorities and state bodies at all. In HSLS, we estimate that the negative perceptions of judicial independence have certainly been brought by certain statements of judges in the public, in which certain values were expressed about persons, topics of social, political life, and which were not directly related to topics from their portfolio, directly from the subject of justice. It is precisely by insisting on this independence and independence of the judicial authority that we also consider appropriate in the context of this debate to propose certain solutions that we consider necessary in order for examples of bad practice to be stopped and that we would indeed make a certain change. The public statement of the views of judges in our opinion is problematic, given that they are just limited by the authority of these same judges, which is necessarily based on the assumption of judicial objectivity, impartiality, and judges who bring their political views, beliefs, sympathy, antipathies or courts, the courts of certain social categories do not have authority towards members of society who do not have such views or beliefs, and we believe that such a practice should be stopped. This is also the reason for Article 10(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The European Convention for the Protection of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms limits the right to freedom of expression, among other things, to preserve both the authority and the impartiality of the judicial authority. We believe that because of all of this, we can and should make a similar commitment to this law. In HSLS, I believe that the introduction of such a provision would bring national legislation in line with European legislation, with certain practices that European courts also have, the European Court of Human Rights, and we believe that this is exactly how judges would not be able to ignore their main part, which is, therefore, a judicial profession that would avoid just now the conduct of judges that directly endangers the independence and impartiality of the judiciary. In addition to the proposed amendments to the Law on Courts, much of what we have heard from other colleagues who have discussed this subject, much has been devoted to the attention and regulation of the profession of court interpreters, and given their exceptional importance to the functioning of the judiciary, but also to all other legal traffic that does not take place in the context of administrative proceedings, it is very important to consider the proposed amendments very carefully. The two groups that are important to us, which are ultimately proven in the public consultation itself, are likely to be the same people who live on the whole, the whole of this part of the work of court interpreters, for example, there is a fear of judicial interpreters that, except for the needs of judicial proceedings, they will not be able to provide their services on the market. Also due to the prescribed low tariffs, long waits for the payment of their services provided to judicial authorities as well as other newly introduced, newly introduced pardon complications such as the obligation to make references to so-called e-accounts a large number of court interpreters, experts are not at all determined to provide their services to judicial authorities. Therefore, the question arises as to why professional responsibility should necessarily be ensured for the purpose of providing services in areas which are not regulated at all by this law, and yet they are prevented from being generally engaged in their activities in the event of failure to comply with the new requirement proposed by these amendments. Thirdly, in HSLS, we warn that both court experts and interpretations of regulated professions within the meaning of the Law on regulated professions and the recognition of foreign professional qualifications, because in accordance with Article 5(1) of that Law, access to and enforcement of them is based on legal or other legal acts, as such, we refer to the provisions of Article 5a. the law under which, when establishing new or amending existing conditions restricting access to regulated professions or their exercise, the competent authority is obliged to carry out a proportionality assessment prior to the assessment of the proportionality of each prescribed condition restricting access to or enforcement of the regulated profession. Furthermore, the reasons for proposing amendments to the Law on Courts states that the Ministry of Justice and the Administration does not have any up-to-date and complete information on the appointed and resolved permanent court witches, assessors and interpreters, which makes it more difficult to communicate with these categories. In HSLS, we agree with the problem description that judicial authorities are indeed making communication with witches and interpreters more difficult, but we do not agree on the cause of the problem, i.e. we do not consider it to be the cause of the lack of up-to-date and complete data on appointed and resolved permanent court witches, assessors and interpreters. We would also like to further illustrate the description of the problem with the experience of the practice of which judicial officials even spend a large part of their working hours practically asking interpreters and experts to provide their services for the purposes of proceedings before judicial authorities, but, as we have already mentioned, because of the prescribed low tariffs, long waits for the payment of their services provided to judicial authorities, as well as other newly introduced complications, such as the obligation to produce and refer to so-called. e-Current, a large number of court interpreters and witches do not decide at all to provide their services to judicial authorities and we believe that this should change. The material rights which are thus carried out through those professions, which, as has already been said, were not the subject of the legislative interest, are nevertheless essential for the effective engagement of the required professional assistance of the professions concerned. I think it's a clear message that all of us should primarily deal with through the Justice Department. However, in order not to allow once-determined fees not to comply with the changed circumstances on the market, as was the case with fees for the work of court interpreters which have not changed for 20 years, we consider it to be competent, i.e. our advice to the competent minister that it is necessary to legally undertake to regularly consider the level of fees for the work of interpreters and witches. Finally, as liberals, we believe that the rule of law, the trinity of the authorities is based on a functioning, independent and impartial judiciary, the central value of every democratic society, which needs to be.../incomprehensible/... nurtured, improved, in order to guarantee the legal security and autonomy of civil society. We therefore assess the proposed amendments with the aim of further strengthening judicial institutions without which there is no equality and equality between citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70768	You, too. Mr. Hrvoje Zekanovic will represent the views of Croatian sovereigns. He's gone. He's losing his right. Mr. Damir Byce will represent the views of the Fox Club and the independent representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70769	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, Mr. Secretary of State. Let me speak to the Fox Club of Representatives and Independent Representatives of HS. When we talk about justice, I will point out once again, there is unity of opinion. Namely, the EU commission, Croatian citizens, including the minister himself, are concerned with one thing, which is the perception of the judiciary in Croatia. It should be said that this is something we really need to worry about, too, at HS. Namely, the perception of the judiciary is what is the basis of the freedom of each individual citizen and when we talk about it, when you look at polls, the Croatian judiciary is very often first, in the mistrust of Croatian citizens, sometimes second, but always among the first 10. There are a number of countries in Europe where the justice system of that country is actually on that list. The EU Commission has been concerned about this and it is actually from the title, I would say, on the one hand, that the Croatian citizen, at the moment he thinks his rights have been violated, can be addressed practically exclusively to courts. And this mistrust is actually one of the fundamental elements of the uncertainty, the uncertainty of citizens in the rule of law. We can address, of course, and the police, we can also address a number of other administrative or other institutions, but ultimately, we can and should seek justice. I have to stress when we talk about today in the House about the Justice Department, 5 laws are on the agenda today, some of them are tied to the narrow part of the judiciary, some courts, some are in one wide area, so the attorney's office, but anyway, we thought at the Focus Club and independent representatives that it was actually about the day when we were going to talk about some reform of Croatian justice. However, those five laws do not indicate that. What am I saying that for? Because, first of all, this part of the reform effort was not made for our sake, so because of those who work in Croatia, they live in Croatia, because of foreign investors who also stress it as a major investment problem in Croatia, but because, in this case, the EU has concluded that we need help to move into judicial reform. I am talking, of course, about the National Recovery and Resistance Programme, our commitment to the EU, and if they are concerned, then we must be even more concerned. The question arises whether this set of laws is actually an answer that will allow the judiciary to be, to quote actually that document, the modern judiciary is ready for future challenges. That's right, that sounds so nice. However, in a document that's 1,000 and I think, and some pages, the judiciary is actually only mentioned in two chapters, when we talk about a summary, I'll quote it. It is said, in fact, that we should, of course, make sure that the judiciary is independent, effective, and on the other hand, we will do so through procedures related to electronic communication in courts. I believe, of course, that the electronic part needs to be strengthened, that it is related to information, but that it will not give an answer to what we all want, whether it will have the trust of citizens, legal persons, foreign investors, the EU Commission and all of us in Croatia in the Croatian judiciary. So when we talk about these laws, I asked the minister, does he think that's the answer to exactly what we want, the modern judiciary ready for, I'd say today, not the future, he said it was a step on that path. I believe that this step should be greater, that it should be clearer and that it should be more determined, and when we talk about these two laws that are ahead of us, I will stress that these laws solve some technical matters, appointments, deadlines, publications, and I would say that this technical part should not in fact in any way even be perceived as a reform. Do we need to worry about the family part of the trial? Yeah, that's what matters. Do we need to go to the special? It's a matter of discussion, but it's certainly not a bad way to go. I can agree with the minister. On the third hand, when we talk about witches, interpreters, they are very important and this law does not actually solve the essence, which is that the trial based on evidence, and the evidence provided by the experts must be both in criminal and civil law, clearly and in a way that, when we are talking about the experts, for example, the witches have to work on the court's order, I would say professionally and cannot have great deviations. We know that in practice it is not so and that deviations can be significant. In the end, when we talk about the totality of the judiciary, we can often say that it may be the judges, that it is the wrong of the judiciary because of the poor perception of the judiciary. But I'd say that there are a number of great judges in courts, that there are people who do it fairly, competently and should give them a chance. So, the judiciary is not just dependent on itself that's not another part of Croatia, the judiciary is actually up to us and it's here said, about the legislative framework that we have to provide, that they can work in a way that citizens, but also investors and everyone else are satisfied. It seems to me right now that this framework that we're talking about today is not nearly related to such an idea. We can even support some ideas, but he certainly won't answer how we're going to make one judicial reform, how we're going to make the judiciary for the present, how we're going to do according to what we expect. And to finish with what I started with, the Croatian citizen goes to court at the moment of need. The judiciary only meets when it feels the ultimate need to seek protection from the state and it cannot be that 90% of Croatian citizens think they can't get that protection because such a thing leads us to the situation that when people come from Croatia very often indicate that the problem is not only in wages, jobs but in one uncertainty about the state. And the judiciary is the part of the element they have to rely on, and we have to give it to them. These contributions I'd say took a minimum step in that part and I expect a lot more in what comes next. And I believe that the European Commission will also ask Croatia to do so, so if we do not have representatives in the assembly at least those demands will have to be answered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70770	You, too. Mrs Romana Nikolic will represent the Social Democrats' stances, the Social Democrats' Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70771	Thank you, Vice President. Dear state secretaries, respected ministers, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, not once after this speaker we spoke of mistrust in the judiciary as a huge problem of Croatian society today. Because of mistrust in institutions, corruption, administrative ineffectiveness, the absence of human reform lives worse and leaves our country. We saw less than 4 million of us yesterday, and today we witness the arrest of former Minister Žalac, who is still a current member of the HDZ presidency. To restore the faith of people, to restore the faith of people in Croatia and stop emigration, we must restore faith to the institutions and strengthen them. It is clear that the authorities' efforts to deprive independent institutions of resources and powers, to politically control themselves, to put their leaders under pressure and intimidate them. The Social Democrats Club wants a healthy society in which such institutions are defended by self-will. Today, it is on the agenda to amend the Law on Courts which has caused great dissatisfaction with the normative regulation of the status issues of judicial witches and permanent judicial assessors as well as with the way of regulating the right to the prize and determining the value of the prize for the work done. The amendment does not satisfy the primary reference to the definition of the field of work of these professions and the required competence to decide on their status issues. The creation of an unequal case-law of competent county and commercial courts, which contributes to the inequality of address and legal uncertainty, which cannot be removed without normative changes. Since there are existing normative frameworks that are governed by the status and material rights of judicial witches, evaluators and interpreters, it is obviously not satisfactory to change it. We of the Social Democrats Club believe that when the final law is drawn up, all problems are considered and included in the comments and proposals of the professional association in order to detect all existing problems and to develop as high-quality legislation as possible, which will also cover the equally valorised interests of all participants in judicial proceedings. In regulating the position of judicial witches in the Republic of Croatia, it is necessary to start from the current reform of the judiciary and the need for a more effective trial. There is hardly any procedure in which, as a proven asset or as specific court assistants, court experts do not appear. They provide an expert knowledge service which the court does not have at its disposal when necessary for the purpose of establishing or clarifying legally determined facts. Therefore, we believe that future legislation on judicial warlocks, as a specific activity, should be considered as an example of attorneyship or public notation, and that the offices should also be fundamentally postulated, the general regime and the code of the art procedure. Also, the issue of compensation for performing the affairs of court witches as well as perhaps forming a Croatian chamber of court warlocks, thus allowing them to respect their independence in the work. Furthermore, as regards the amendment and addition of the Law on Areas and Seats of Courts, we welcome the establishment of specialised family courts at municipal courts in the county seats, although they should have been established long ago because it was foreseen for the National Strategy for Children's Rights for the period from 2014 to 2020, which has already expired. It's a long-standing problem that I personally pointed to, but it could also be heard from the attorney general as well as from civil society organisations. Family departments already exist, but what is foreseen by this amendment is the establishment of specialised departments for family trial in municipal courts in which judges will be required to be further educated and sensitised from the area of family law and this should be made more clear. From all that the minister himself has announced, it turns out that something already exists or exists but is not in office, or it is about licensed judges for family law or judges who would work in family judicial departments, who would be tried exclusively in family law cases. That's the part that needs to be further defined. For many years, there has been an increase in the number of high conflict divorces of marriages and interruptions of extramarital parent communities negatively affecting the life of children, uncertainty due to long-term court proceedings in which they are brought about children with inconspicuous consequences, inadequate and disappointing judgments, violation of the child’s privacy, lack of information from parents and children on the rights and ways of achieving them. These are all reasons and need as high as possible reactions by competent institutions that depend on continued and priority investments in the child protection system. In this important link, it is the establishment of specialised departments for family participation, as well as the urgent adoption of a new national strategy for children's rights, which is already very late. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70772	Thank you, too. Mr. Peja Grbin, will now speak on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70773	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, when in one great forest a bouquet of fire then don't put it out with a glass of water because you know there'll be nothing from that glass of water. She'll just evaporate like she never was. Well, in the Croatian judiciary, there's noise fires, forest fires, hundreds and hundreds of acres, and this is a kind of metaphorical glass of water. And when I talk about it, I'm talking about the Law on Courts and the Law on State Attorneyship and Areas and Seats, etc. There are good solutions in these laws, that should not be denied. From the question of family courts to the fact that what we've been talking about for a long time is finally being introduced, which is the need for wider, larger security checks. However, this cannot reduce the fact that we do not address key problems in the Croatian judiciary at all. This law will by no means contribute to speeding up judicial proceedings. And that's a fact. This law will not contribute except in a small segment of family courts to improve the quality of decisions. This law will not contribute enough to prevent corruption in the judiciary. The measures that are concrete, which would be our needs, and let's say some of them are foreseen in the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, would be, and for that there is a system, to finally go public with the publication of all court decisions, of all courts in machine-readable, searchable form. It would be one concrete measure, which I believe would be welcomed by all those who follow the work of the courts, and also by us sitting here in the Croatian Parliament, but there are no measures, she is not here. The second measure, for example the European Commission, has singled it out in its report as something that would be good at strengthening the position and role of the state-guarantee and state-guarantee council. Here's just one example, and you don't have to go far, and unfortunately you shouldn't go to Austria, or Switzerland, or any of the developed countries with quality justice. It is necessary to go to Albania which, unlike Croatia, has taken certain concrete measures, introduced a veting procedure to ensure that those judicial officials, judges and prosecutors who have become rich and cannot prove their assets fly out of the system, fly out of the system. And to make things better in February this year, the project was also confirmed by the European Court of Human Rights, saying it was in line with the European Charter. That's the kind of thing Croatia needs. These would be concrete measures that would allow the Croatian judicial system to finally start cleaning up from those that should never have been there. It would be a real deal with corruption and a real deal with those who are muddying what little respects the Croatian judiciary is left. But there isn't. This law, these four laws are camels. However, this chamomile needs to be talked about in order to improve it. When you announced changes to these laws a few weeks ago, you were talking about how we would strengthen education. Education is crucial so that people who work in the judicial system can do their job better. That's the part where we talk about quality, not just speed, but the quality of court decisions. And what do you do? In the law, you delete the provision that judges are obliged to attend certain educational processes at least once a year, so they no longer have to do so once a year, if necessary, when, as they will be controlled. This is a step in the wrong direction. Please correct it until another reading because if this provision is missing then there will be a way for those who do not respect it to be sanctioned and told if you are not able to attend any of the educational programs annually, then the workshop does not deserve to be judges, it is minimum minimum. We have professions, arranged professions where to stay members of the chamber within 5 years you have to collect a number of points. It's not here. We're going one step further. Let's say we're looking for something like that for the judiciary, the State's Attorney's office, no. And then, of course, the consequence of the judgments falling into the Supreme Courts, that the proceedings are delayed and that, according to the European Commission's report to the Government in 2019, the average court procedure lasted 5 years, and that includes the simplest cases. 5 years to wait for justice which in many, many cases comes up to 6,7, 8, 9, 10 or more. And people don't welcome decisions, people don't welcome decisions. This law won't change that. Dear colleagues and colleagues will return for a moment for security checks. Security checks are good and I'd say necessary measures. It's necessary because the practice of the reformer from the BIH made us get off the dead end. The fact that we pointed to our problems throughout Croatia in the judiciary, which we indicated that the judges were not controlled enough, meant nothing until the gentleman from the BiH showed up and pointed out exactly where the problem was. And three judges have been prosecuted. Would it have been if there had been security checks? I hope that, hopefully, our institutions would not have noticed that a certain circle of people, at the same time, would not have bought concrete vehicles for which they could not actually pay out of their own pocket. I guess those who control it couldn't have missed it. However, the proposed solution is not good and needs to be fixed. This should be replaced every 5 years with at least once every 5 years, because otherwise you are announcing in advance the laws to those you want to control when you will control them. Well, man knows, they checked me out today, the next one comes in five years. It can't be like that. One of the most important things effective control is that a person who will be controlled does not know that this control is coming. And when you were answering me about the election of the President of the Supreme Court and the Attorney General, that security check comes after a post-festum. She in this segment where you said she comes after someone has been appointed President of the Supreme Court and is awaiting appointment as Judge of the Supreme Court who follows if she has not been in the system. It's got to be before. We cannot allow ourselves as the Croatian Parliament, let us choose the person who will fall for the security check tomorrow. So imagine the consequences of the system. If we want to build institutions, if we want these institutions to have strength, then that's what the effort needs to be made. And the effort among other things means that we need to ensure that situations where trust in institutions happens simply move away, simply prevent them, and here we can do so. The security check must be on each election by the President of the Supreme Court and the Attorney General and must be included in the process, the sea, and even at the re-nomination, I will say especially on the re-election, especially on the re-nomination, to see that when she was given the opportunity for 4 years to act as an extremely important authority she did not fail, she did not fail. Dear colleagues and colleagues. What I'm talking about is only part of the problem of the Croatian judiciary and I've just scratched it, but we're not going to solve these problems by law. And yes, I will agree once again that some solutions to these four laws are good and we will support 3 out of 4 laws, but the Law on Courts cannot, because simply outside the scope of this document there are real problems and such a law, I will repeat it once again will not contribute to the Courts' decision making faster, nor will the decisions of Croatian courts be better. And if you look at all the charts on which Croatia's competitiveness is being controlled, you will see that the quality of the work of the judiciary is not one of the most important points why Croatia is not competitive. And when we're not competitive, then we don't need to be surprised that no one wants to come to work with us or what's worse with us. And your role as Minister of Justice is enormous in that, and when you accept that duty, let's do this job right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70774	Thank you. Mr. Drazen Bosnjakovic will speak on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70775	Your Honor, Mr Vice President, Your Honor, Minister and Secretary of State. The HDZ Club has its own assessment of these two laws, namely the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts and Amendments of the Law on Areas and Seats of the Courts. We believe that these amendments to these two laws in some segments have made quite significant and important steps to regulate certain things. Somewhere, the institutes that already exist will be defined in a better way than it is now arranged, and therefore we actually think that these two laws are steps towards organising and working justice. The Law on Courts is one of the fundamental laws governing the segment of the judiciary where we regulate the internal structure, where we determine the jurisdiction, the types of courts we have, the powers of the participants, so that it may indeed be one of the most important laws, along with all the procedural ones that regulate the processes within the judiciary and the processes that take place in the proceedings themselves before the Court. What in any case we think is extremely significant is that it is not really insignificant and no camel or some things is the establishment of these 15 departments in the courts they have, which are founded in the headquarters of county courts that will regulate and which means working in family cases. In fact, it has been seen that this government of Andrej Plenkovic has one continuity that addresses these issues, so even when in the criminal trial segment, when certain beings are more precise, acts related to domestic violence and the prevention of domestic violence are increased penalties, for example, let us remember that rape is uninterrupted as a criminal act that has pretty much irritated the entire society, and in fact the different content of this is determined and the penalties are largely increased in the segment, and now it is a matter of applying and implementing it. What we consider to be very good and important is the establishment of these 15 departments, and especially when we see that the law provides that not only those 15 departments will work for judges who will be specialized and trained for such procedures but also officials themselves who will be within it must also be educated for this type of procedure and those other participants. This is very important, and it should be continued, perhaps only a little bit of the nomotechnical provisions in the article. 7. when it comes to the tendency of these judges to actually solve family issues, it is so quite vague, so perhaps no-technically arrange it until the second reading, but in any case we think that the idea is extremely, extremely commendable. There's been a lot of discussion here and about the changes you've been introducing for court experts, and I think that's true, so far, the court experts have appointed courts and there's been unequal practice, and that's actually the appointment of a court expert and putting him on the list of administrative acts. And so this is because the administrative act is natural and that the Ministry of Justice and Administration is working, and given that someone is unhappy with it, he can initiate appropriate procedures to protect his right. However, warlocks are extremely important persons and participants in various types of litigation and criminal proceedings because judges do not actually have some specialized knowledge throughout the whole range of areas and then are used by court experts. The question whether they should be regulated by law or, or in some other way, it has already been on the table of the Constitutional Court which has actually taken over and made a decision to regulate all questions related to judicial witches in the way that it has been done in our case is correct, so it is regulated by the regulation and on that side of the Regulation should be seen whether certain amendments are needed, and especially regarding their tariff and other issues, but in any case there are mechanisms if they do not exercise their powers, so they do not find them in time or such things then they can be resolved. This seems to me to be a good question to be regulated in such a way that the ministry has a complete record, that the ministry has a unique practice that will be the same everywhere, and if someone thinks that something has been injured they have procedures before the administrative courts that means protecting that, protecting those rights. It is also good that court experts really do as the term says become permanent, once they are named, so no longer need to renew this one to his status as a witch but he has certain security to continue, to move on. I also think that it is a good provision and related to officials, which means strengthening education because in addition to that general state expert exam they are conducting as well as all the officials in the Republic of Croatia, there is a good thing that there is a special part that applies to the very tasks they will carry out. For example, this is very important, and in the case of people and officials who are involved in ensuring this judicial body in the Republic of Croatia, is they really also using these weapons and other means in their work and let's remember that a terrible case happened a couple of years ago, in fact, one of the terrible cases was in Rijeka where there was actually, in fact, a serious injury, and indeed, that there might have been more education invested before all this, perhaps even this would have happened. I think these provisions are also related to the appointment of the Supreme Court President, where certain deadlines are regretted that it is also good. You don't need to leave the concept of a public call, this is our public call experience as much as this one is burdened with some kind of evaluations whether it's in accordance with the constitution or not, I think it's contributed to us having more candidates this time who had to present our work programme. It actually required that we also talk about, that we are actually involved in all of this, we think that it is good and that perhaps we should consider that this deadline until when it is due to be appointed Supreme Court President may need to be in law and put in place, perhaps consider a second reading. We also consider it a good step and related to the appointment of the director of the court. The directors of the court are important persons who actually need to take care of both the organisation and the mode of work and the great need to be helped by the President of the Court, which means who are, who are bigger and where we have more than 15 judges. We think that it is also a very, very important thing, but not only on paper but it is necessary to implement it and in practice that these great courts, larger courts, that they really have directors and that in some way that will disburse the president of that court who can do this, who can deal with other things. As far as the security assessment is concerned, and now there's only one course at the first appointment, you're now introducing it to be every 5 years, which we think this one, that there's no obstacle to it, is that for other officials who are subject to a security check, it's being renewed every 5 years. The only thing that matters is that we don't have cases like we had that one candidate for the Supreme Court judge is that that appointment time was prevented because of the SOA Report, and that she didn't know anything about it, that she had no way of showing up about it, and we don't know what happened next. So these things have to be precise, they have to be clear who, when those people who are actually being objected to by security intelligence services, have to be in a position to be able to manifest themselves to such things. As far as this Law on Areas and Courts is concerned, it actually refers mainly to the establishment of these family departments, which we think is a good step, but there's one important thing actually, it's second-degree courts when, now having certain specializations, we have specialized ones that only work for one-sided consumer bankruptcy, we have some that deal with some other things, I think this, this change that's done, actually, that they're disbursed for the number of cases they're receiving, but in any case, those specialist knowledge they have, it should actually be kept through education in the Judiciary Academy, so they're working with those other judges who are working on other courts who, uh, will take up now and that kind of case, and yesterday they're not. So on the other hand, we think these two laws are a good, good basis for first reading. The second, of course, should be seen and related to the nomotechnical alignment, for more precise provisions, but HDZ will support these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70776	You, too. - Mrs. Crescent. Marijana Puljak will speak in front of the Centre and Voice Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70777	I thank the chairman. I can start this debate with a sentence that says, first they came for the Commissioner to decide on a conflict of interest, then they came for the Commissioner for Information, and here, today they came almost all over the judiciary. In fact, the proposed amendments and additions to these laws today, whether, throughout the day, the debate, we believe, will further weaken such weak institutions. We don't actually consider this a reform, a real reform of the judiciary, and anyway, about judicial reform, we should never speak to the party, propose a reform, a party convicted of corruption. According to the current, therefore, EU Commission report of July this year, Croatia is in the final position towards perceived independence of the judiciary, i.e. citizens believe that politics interferes in the work of the judiciary. A little worse than us are Slovakia, Poland, Bulgaria. This Report, therefore, is based on data on the quality, efficiency and independence of national judicial systems, we also know the case of Poland, which is known in the general public because of the direct involvement of policy in the independence of the judiciary, resulting in a series of warnings and complaints from the Commission. Today in Croatia, so even close to 70 and 68.2% of citizens believe that politics interferes in the work of the judiciary, as well as 62.9% that economic and other special interests are involved in the work of the judiciary. For comparison, in Poland the percentage is 51.3% and in Slovakia 52.8%. Croatia and Italy are further, to comment on this Report, the first and a half cases awaiting a solution in civil and trade disputes, although Croatia, after Slovenia, has the largest number of judges compared to the population. Therefore, the estimated time needed to resolve cases in civil, commercial, administrative and other disputes in Croatia in 2019 was 130 days, compared to 2018 of 102 days. For comparison, Denmark was the first to wait in 2019 only 19 days, then Latvia 25, Estonia 32, Lithuania 52, Slovenia 56 days. It is sometimes commented that this data, that there are only a few thousand, compared to one million and 600 thousand items, therefore there are only a few thousand items waiting for more than 10 years, but it is important that these are objects that are in the public focus, such as here, corruption affairs, affairs and cases against Ivo Sanader, for example, against Branimir Glavas, etc. You also have cases, remember from pre-election campaigns, when here, and in Split, the judges of Split, so several Split judges participated in a celebration in a tavern of the famous Split entrepreneurs and politicians, a tavern that was closed because of the epidemiological measures and in these cases the Ethics Council concluded and condemned them, so they found that they even violated the Code of Judicial Ethics. But to go back to these amendments to the law, so as I asked the minister here, here and here, Mr. Bosnakovic said that, that the election and establishment of a list of judicial experts is some kind of administrative act that is natural to come into the hands of the ministry and the minister, but here we believe that it, therefore, is not a meaningless matter, is a strengthening of the executive authority, strengthening the powers of the minister, the ministry, taking over powers until now and, therefore, had county courts and therefore, at a small door to strengthen the executive authority in relation to the judicial one. As I said, especially problematic in the situation where we are headed by the state, so when this executive power represents a party convicted of corruption and here it is quite a matter of time before today when here, the European public prosecutor has to come to us and we have members of the party's presidency, had former officials, we have current officials, who are here, and today they are arrested in corruption affairs. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70778	Thank you. Mrs. Sandra Bencic will speak in front of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70779	I thank the chairman. I would like to point out that it is truly devastating that we are actually working on something important, important reform procedures in the judiciary, so in the branch of the government that citizens find the most problematic and in which we have the least confidence we are doing in an atmosphere that is all but an atmosphere in which these citizens could have some better confidence in the judiciary because right now, therefore, the proposings of these changes, therefore the HDZ that has the majority in the government, has a majority in parliament, except that it is recently convicted of a corrupt criminal act that has distanced itself from some sort of time hole, hole in space, time and space-time continuum is today denied in this alleged hole and distance because their former minister has been arrested, but the current member of the HDZ presidency as well as the person who is head of the body in charge, for controlling the control of spending of EU funds. So, in my opinion, it's really puzzling to really talk about something that should be reform processes in the judiciary in such an atmosphere that is an apparent expression of the serious crisis of the government and of the serious crisis of the institutions. We can no longer pretend that this is an accident, that it can happen to anyone, can't happen to everyone and doesn't happen to everyone that their officials or high-ranking party members are arrested every month on average. So it's not a normal state. What's still the problem is that what's proposed here in all these changes and additions isn't any reform procedure, it really isn't. Therefore, neither will it allow better, more efficient judiciary, nor will it allow better public control of the judiciary, nor will it allow necessary changes in the way and composition of the choice of judges and elected judges. So all of what we've been stressing is that, as reform processes, they have to aim at actually not doing this, it's not happening. But what's even more amazing than all that is is that at the moment we go to the amendments and supplement the law and we go to change the article of this Law on Courts that we talked about most this year, which is Article 44a. for which we have received a decision from the Constitutional Court, these amendments and additions do not harmonize that article even with the Constitutional Court's decision. Which I don't even agree with at the end, but when you're making changes and supplementing, maybe you should get along with it. Therefore, in its decision, the Constitutional Court pointed to ambiguities in the application of Article 44a. Those misunderstandings were one of the reasons why we didn't elect the Supreme Court president for more than half a year. And okay. What did the Constitutional Court say? He said that it was necessary to define the time limit to obtain previous opinions from the relevant parliamentary committee and the General Meeting of the Supreme Court, within which the proposal of the President of the Republic should be sent to the Croatian Parliament, within which time the Croatian Parliament should decide whether a public call should be repeated if the President of the Republic decides not to propose any of the candidates who made the call. So we know the situation. The number of times the call should be repeated, whether the previous one, who determines it, on whose request etc., etc., are all the ambiguities found by the Constitutional Court. However, in the newly proposed provisions, you are introducing deadlines from all of these listed only for the President of the Republic. Of all the deadlines to be defined here, the proposal defines that the President of the Republic has to request an opinion from the General Session of the Supreme Court and the relevant Board of the Croatian Parliament for 8 days from the date of receipt of that opinion, so he must propose to the President of the Supreme Court. So deadlines were set for the President of the Republic who has constitutional authority, constitutional authority of the proposal for the Supreme Court, but none of these other institutions. And by putting this as a pre-exclusive deadline, it is rare to see that any state institution is subject to a pre-inclusive deadline, so under the threat of annulment of the entire procedure, it is therefore imperative that within 15 days of the date of receipt of the opinion propose one candidate. What if there were 50 candidates? What if he's got 50 candidates and 15 days isn't enough for him? What if there's 100 of them? So there's, there's no talking about it. So, you're going to cancel the public call, you're going to go on again. And it's not just that. The problem is that in addition to not setting deadlines for these other bodies, the additional law actually limits something that is constitutional authority. And now, however someone thinks whether it should be the President of the Republic who proposes or should be someone else, what's the problem is the practice that we are introducing here that the parliamentary majority of the laws restricts constitutional powers in a way that changes the purpose and objective of the constitutional provision and it is dangerous, it's really dangerous, because of course when you don't have most of the need to change the constitution then you move on, then you go into legislative changes that make constitutional powers different interpretations and constraints. I mean that, that's what happens to us, the same thing happens to the question of setting measures, the crown measures even when they go into constitutional rights, and we're talking here about making those decisions to a two-thirds majority because there's no law to change something that's a constitutional category, so today we have this problem with those MPs who won't even be vaccinated, and they don't want to be tested, so they had to be present online. Why? Because you cannot make a decision to limit a parliamentary mandate that is a constitutional category. Yes, you can't, and you can't even have the rights of citizens. And we talked and we'd have a two-thirds majority, we'd have it because everyone cares about us fighting this pandemic. But no, as with this example, there is room for constitutional powers to be changed by laws. I find that absolutely unacceptable. So what's still problematic is that apart from this breach procedure actually prescribed by the constitution we have here and the situation of introducing security checks every 5 years. For the judge. The first question is how it will be implemented logistically, how it will be carried out every 5 years. If all judges go through security checks now? So, as far as I know, I think it's up to 180 days to complete that security check. I mean I don't know if anyone asked SOA if they have the capacity to check all the judges in that, within a certain period. That's the first thing. The other thing is that it allows someone appointed by the executive authority to have security checks that are not prescribed what they will be and what kind of person actually controls parts of the judicial authority. That's the problem, it's also a constitutional problem. What was the goal? Our goal should be to regularly control or to know that the public knows whether, for example, the receipts of our judges and the assets they have are in line with their incomes. That's what's bothering us, given someone inside the system is taking bribes. That's what the question is, but it's not done with security checks mandatory every 5 years. but a regular obligation which is also not prescribed again as a liability or no sanctions if no property card is published, and even more so, as it is done by an active tax administration that is constantly doing a check on the property of any citizen, including a judge with his income, and we are not entering something that is literally a violation, a violation of constitutional provisions. and the principles of the division of power. [[Intruder: Time, thank you]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70780	Thank you very much. Sir, let's start with individual debates and it's Mr. Nicole Grmoy's turn. There she comes... Yeah, yeah. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70781	Thank you. To all respected colleagues and colleagues, therefore, if I still had any expectations from our government, this package of judicial laws would come to me as a huge disappointment, but as our government has used us to expect nothing so we can't even claim that we are now disappointed or that we are amazed by the lack of will to do things, that things in our justice system move harder and more resolutely forward. Instead of having at least some reform measures, we are today discussing mostly technical and technical issues, we are discussing examinations for court officials, a little bit of judicial experts, and how it turns out that in the establishment of a high criminal court, we forgot to set up his jurisdiction by modeling the courts of a similar rank, i.e. A high-ranking, high-level administrative, high-level trade court, now we're going to fix it a little bit and gain the powers of the high court. In addition, this package brings one judicial subspecies in terms of compulsory establishment of family departments in municipal courts in county courts, and these laws are misrepresented as anti-corruption in the sense of the introduction of a general obligation to carry out a thorough security check for all judges although, for example, some judges caught in the affairs have long shown that, according to security checks, these judges are morally unquestionably unquestionable flowers and pillars of this society. Looking at the generality of these laws, they don't bring us anything spectacular if they bring us anything important new. Moreover, I don't think these laws should have been found here at all. We have only recently completed the tape about the election of the Supreme Court president and have not yet come together with the impressions, let alone that we have established learned lessons, and we are already changing the rules and again at the level of technicals and what is irrelevant. My people, we need to realise that, back in these few years, we have had two cases of elections in the highest judicial position, so it means choosing the chief state attorney and selecting the president of the Supreme Court in which there have been major and significant errors or poisonings of which the reputation of the judiciary has failed even deeper in the eyes of the citizens, and continues to fail. And while all this is happening what our Department of Justice is doing, which is because of our authority, here's what we do, we're dealing with whether or not the public call will be repeated within 8, 15 or 30 days. I would end up on security checks a little while longer, given that security checks have been denied in the media over the past few weeks that they have had any effect, that for any judge from those who have been banking with Zdravko Mamic, security checks have not revealed any problems, and, moreover, that countries such as Slovakia, who have been pioneering the introduction of security checks for judicial officials, have begun to give up security checks, and have also come under the reflector of the EU Commission and the systematic courts of those countries have even declared security checks unconstitutional. I think we should think carefully and consider what we are getting, except that the government is going to get a little cheap PR and create some illusion to fight corruption in the judiciary, but I think today, today, this arrest so present-day member of the HDZ Presidency and former minister in the government of Andrej Plenkovic, his personal friends, close persons, Gabriele Žalac, has actually shown how our independent institutions operate and I said it and the minister here, it is a shower, not only to the Government of Andrej Plenkovic, it is not just a shower to HDZ, it is not just a shower to Minister Malenica and here, Secretary of State Salapic. It is actually a splash to all independent institutions and slaps to all independent institutions in the Republic of Croatia because it shows that we ourselves cannot deal with corruption but that this must be done by the office, means the European Public Prosecutor, so. This is an unrecorded scandal about money fraud from EU funds, and we are only waiting for corrections and I said here at the stop earlier, and the corrections will be a bigger blow to the Croatian budget than the Agrokor and Agrokor affair itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70782	The first replica, Mrs. Pryce. Selak Rasudic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70783	Interestingly, when we had a debate on the confidence of Minister Maric, then on the question of the prime minister of what his role was and how familiar he was with the discussions between Gabriela Žalac, Josipa Rimac about Bashic's actions in the Krš-Paden affair and, in general, his connection with HDZ, something that was said in these discussions as if he had always been available, the prime minister laughed, laughed at such issues, so he took his easy hand off when he mentioned his relationship with those who acted at the time of Sanader's government for a ruling on corruption, and it would be very good to see whether it was still funny for him today. Well, just if we want to link this to the current situation, Gabriela Zalac was first arrested for some, not arrested, or publicly named, specifically, because of minor traffic violations, she didn't have a driver's license extended, if I'm not mistaken, and we see where it ended today. In that sense, my question is whether or not to check with regard to Jelenić and everything else, and even those security ones, is enough, to point us to key problems. [[Time, ma'am. Detachment.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70784	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70785	So, I remember it was Mrs. Dobbs. The stinger found Mercedes accidentally in his backyard, I remember that. Uh, I don't think anyone would object to having something like this happen to us, uh, but obviously those who work fairly in Croatia can't drive such cars, especially if they're involved in politics. We know that these salaries of ministers and others, this is, in fact, very, very small, if we look at compared to other European countries, and then unfortunately this is happening, there is crime, corruption that is being protected by both Andrej Plenkovic and HDZ's government and the fact, what you have warned, that he is not on any issue about this Krš-Pajene affair, the prime minister wanted to answer rather than laughing at them at first, I think now they don't think anything is funny, they're avoiding this, answering any questions at all. As for security checks, I explained that it definitely won't solve the problems because they're feeling The judges passed those checks. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70786	- Mrs. Crescent. Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70787	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. He's a friend of Grumo's. I think today's debate could be called one of our sayings and saying, "The village is burning and the grandmother is combing." So on the one hand, we have a really alarming situation, and here we have a set of laws called the so-called. in the area of the Ministry of Justice, which does not even consistently implement the decisions of the Constitutional Court. I think the time has come to discuss seriously and whether we need the Constitutional Court and, if necessary, what is its role and importance because we see that the Ministry of Justice is under cover that it will implement the Constitutional Court's decision only in the part in which he thinks it should. So the key question is, some countries do not have a Constitutional Court, does Croatia need it at all? Should he be a tool when we need him, then we have decisions and we implement them, and when we don't, we remember only with the Constitutional Court's decisions on the Election Law that This Parliament is not implementing. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70788	Thank you very much. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70789	So, I told the Constitutional Court everything I had, so while we were part of the ruling majority, HDZ and the SDP had jointly agreed between us by the Constitutional Court, we voted against, then the constitutional court was joined by people who falsely represented themselves in Austria, so unmarked-suspected politicians. I agree with you that we do not need the Constitutional Court, and when they ask the question why they did not make it impossible for the MPs to participate in the work now related to these Covid certificates, the answer is very simple, because there is no constitutional basis, so for such a thing, we have an imperative mandate, just as there is no constitutional basis for the citizens to take away the right to access to institutions without here debate in HS and decisions by a two-thirds majority, so not by a simple majority, but by a two-thirds majority, and it is clear that both the right and the Constitutional Court and the institutions to implement Willingness. [[Thank you very much.]] And about corruption, but also making decisions.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70790	Mr. Grmoya, thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. It's a pulac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70791	Dear colleague. If we start from the comments of today's arrests and remember that the prime minister's statement that today's HDZ is not the same as Sanader's HDZ, so here, we might agree because Sanader's HDZ was only messing with Croatian budget money, and here's Plenkovic's friends, not just from the Croatian budget, but also from the European budget, so there's some difference. If you agree that, or how do you comment that these amendments to the Law are in some way reducing the powers of the County Courts, they increase the powers of the Ministers and the Ministry by making sure that the list of Court Witches and Evaluators is being determined now centralised. Is this really an increase in the executive authority compared to the judicial one? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70792	So, I would refer to this intro part of you so that's where you actually hit the bit. I am warned by people who are experts in European funds, here I am right now and they are calling me and they are sending messages that these corrections will be terrible, so as far as the European Funds are concerned and that they will pay all Croatian citizens. This isn't about some petty crime by some government official who I don't know did something criminal I don't know like Lovre Kuščević was involved in the reuse of spatial plans or so favored himself in such a way. This is about malfeasance with European funds and all Croatia will ultimately have to pay and that is what is most important. And here I am from this place requesting an immediate discharge from the Government of SAFU Directors, so I'm asking for the government to meet and to make that happen, too. member of HDZ who was arrested today along with Minister Žalac. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] I need you to relieve the man immediately.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70793	Mr. Thunderbolt for 12 seconds, thank you. You'll get plenty more opportunities. Mrs. Marija Selak Rasdic has her debate now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70794	In this presentation, given the part-round committee which I am headed by, I will focus primarily on prescribing the mandatory establishment of specialised judicial departments in municipal courts in the county courts for the handling of cases under the law governing family relations with the precision of proceedings, etc. So what I'm interested in is actually those items that will concern family relations and the establishment of specialized judicial departments, but in the headquarters of county courts. So the question that we are asking here is how does this contribute to a faster resolution of family litigation and are we going to achieve in this sense the goal that you have already been set for your 2014-2020 strategy exactly these departments with which you are late, but better ever than never. The first thing I want to point out, and then I'm going to move on to the specific legal provisions that you've prescribed here is that as much as this sounds good, and as much as it's a step in the right direction, and certainly it's an emphasis on facilitating the problem of family relations and specializing and education of judges on this trail that we need to welcome not to solve the mistake of being the worst problem arising from unsettled family relationships, which is the problem of family violence as the most complex, the most difficult situation in which a trial and some divorce case can end, some kind of difficult situation in which a particular family is found. So we're aware of the fact that most 90% of the convictions end only on probation. So are we finally going to devote ourselves to family departments independently of them because they refer to civil litigation and this problem of domestic violence. I do not see in the long-term perspective that in regard to the case law which is most lagging behind and is the biggest problem of curbing domestic violence here offers any solution. So that's what we should put an accent on, and here we missed it. The second question raised here, highlighted by several cities from Pula, Krapina and further their objections, the issue of the availability of these same departments has been rejected since they are located in county courts' headquarters. In fact, the introduction of such departments should be easier for all those who will have problems dealing with their family relationships. However, if these suits are at the heart of the county courts, then beyond their place of residence, the question is whether it will really make life easier and the whole process for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. So, if you now have to cross 100 km from Krapina to Zagreb to be able to solve your problem in court, if that includes a family that is low material status and if there are underage children involved, then of course the question is whether this will really make it easier for them. Because it's nice to have an educated judge, but if you find it harder to get to that court and you don't have the material resources to show up there, then the question is what are these educated judges for? And in conclusion, I'm going to look back at Article 7 that says that these judges should act and ask some questions that remain open. Judges must have a distinct tendency to raise, need and break children Article 7, rule over basic knowledge in the field of social pedagogy, psychology of young people and social work for young people. That really sounds nice, but I don’t know how a tendency will be normized and how basic knowledge will be ruled and how it will be prescribed. And that basic regular attending professional training from these areas. You know, it can be a regular yearly, two-year, six-year-old, monthly issue, and everything remains an open question, and that will ultimately be based on this practice that should help our citizens. Of course, it is a rule that will prescribe such an action, but we have no idea what that rulebook will look like and whether this remains a dead letter on paper.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70795	Thank you. You don't have a replica. Mrs. Karolina Vidovic Kristo, the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70796	Ladies and gentlemen, the countries where the rule of law is functional are countries where courts are blind to differences between rich and poor, to skin color, to political commitment, that is, courts apply laws and all citizens are equal before the law. The point of the judicial action in one country is that it gives its decisions security and creates social order. Functional courts are key for example. The labour market, for economic progress for quality health, is simple for all segments of society. Croatian courts, however, create uncertainty for their citizens and generate social unrest. The verdicts and general behaviour of Croatian courts to a rational and logical person are inexplicable. These amendments to the law, ladies and gentlemen, are not motivated by the motionor i.e. Governments to change relations in the Croatian judiciary and make the judiciary effective and above all to become just. The basic motive, and of course I will argue, is to retain the status quo in which the judiciary will remain a guarantee of retaining existing social relations i.e. the social injustice in which a small handful of selected people are excluded from the legislative system and is shamelessly rich at the expense of a huge number of Croatian citizens, for whom rigorous rules apply. In order to raise awareness of the absurdity of the judicial system, I'm going to give an example that happened a few years ago. At the time, High Court of Commerce President Srdjan Šimac was a member of the council in a secondary procedure in his father's company, which he himself was co-owner. When it came out in public, he said he regretted it and that at that moment he was absent from his thoughts so that he did not actually decide on the case in which he was naturally decided in favour of Dad's company. That amazing statement was prompted by former Supreme Court President Branko Hrvatin saying he would not launch any proceedings against Judge Simac because the statement is credible for him. This is a plastic example that proves that the Croatian judiciary is a closed universe where everyone pleases and guesses each other, a system that works for themselves and against citizens who finance it. Because, as we have seen in this example, the privileged caste in this case is forgiven by some judges, and they are always right as absurd as it is and offensive to common sense. When a Croatian citizen is 15 minutes late, for example Some appeal to a court ruling there is no forgiveness either about a five-member family, an oncological patient or a single mother. The situation in the Croatian judiciary can be called a measuring unit for illogicality. Thus, Croatian courts will approve pompous investigations of the 10,000 kuna bribery, and when it comes to the billions of Ivica Todorovic or the Borg group, then there is no investigative prison, the years pass, and in a procedural sense nothing happens. Cases such as Krašograd in Zagreb or the Bankomat and Spice cases involving the dubiary Stipe Mesic cannot be analysed or monitored because they stretch to fall into oblivion and obsolescence. In front of the general public, the judiciary demonstrates that it is in the service of the powerful, not the citizens, and the worst that courts do not respect the laws. These days I wrote to the President of the Supreme Court that judges in Rijeka do not allow Croatian citizens to propose witnesses during court proceedings. How is it possible for a court in European Croatia in 2021 to act as a court in 1946 against Cardinal Stepinac? Are Croatian judges aware of how they behave and what damage they do to the legal order and to their citizens? The decisions of Croatian courts cause a daunting one. From reducing the sentence to Captain Dragan, until Mirko Norac, who ordered the defence of Gospić, has a longer sentence than that villain Dragan. Croatian courts have the cheeks and hearts to condemn the beggar in Gracac by finding him guilty because he unlawfully asked, and for various Calmetas and other godmothers of the secret rulers of the Croatian judiciary for them they always have extenuating circumstances. Ladies and gentlemen, the Croatian judiciary always finds justification in its decisions and pleases the powerful, while at the same time brutally dealing with ordinary citizens. Indeed, 4 million Croats suffer for these judges. This law will not solve anything because real changes in the judiciary can only be carried out by the political majority that has moral credibility to implement true changes and to establish the rule of law in Croatia. HDZ, SDP and their satellites have brought Croatia into this situation. And nothing positive can be expected of them. I am against these amendments to the law because they are missed and do not solve the real problems of Croatian courts, and these real problems are corruption and non-transparentity.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70797	Thank you for your accuracy, your timing. Mrs. Marija Selak Rasudiæ, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70798	Dear colleague Kristo, I'd like to know how you feel about the security intelligence system being controlled by the judges, would that contribute to better court practice and reduce corruption? We had a case of those judges in Osijek and their connection with Mamic, they were passing checks, so we see where that eventually led us. And would that cause fear in the judges given the security intelligence system? And the ultimate question, of course, of course, who's going to control that system at all, and how much is it or not compromised, I mean security intelligence?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70799	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70800	First of all, it is necessary to carry out a security check on those who are going to carry out a security check. That's step one. When we talk about security clearance, it refers to loyalty to the state and the origin of the property. I have been waiting for months to answer my question to this government, to tell me what the origins of the President of the Constitutional Court, Miroslav Sheparovic, are today I have no answer. I asked for information as to how much income his law firm had made before he became President of the Constitutional Court, which he had come into business with state-owned companies, ministries, etc., because this raises his credibility. There's no answer. Thank you very much for asking, dear colleague Selak Rasudic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70801	- Mrs. Crescent. Anka Dark-Taritash, second replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70802	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Dear colleagues, there are a number of verdicts we can refer to. One of my particularly expensive judgments is against that bear dog who had a ban on barking at a certain time, so he had a certain period of time he shouldn't bark at a certain time, so that's what he's saying, but what he's really saying about our situation in the judiciary is what the judges are telling themselves. So one study conducted among judges has shown that more than 60% of judges conclude and say that they are not progressing towards their ability rather than similarity. And that actually shows what the waist thinks of itself, and with this set of laws that we have today, it's just some kind of cosmetic change and they're essentially not going to get in. So I'd like you to perhaps comment on that analysis that was among the judges. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70803	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70804	Thank you, Comrade Dark-Taritash. So, as to these analyses as judges themselves speak about the judiciary, of course they are relevant. But when you talk about examples, one current example needs to be systematically repeated until all citizens get hit, of course, by the time it comes to light. Croatian courts today accept blacked out contracts in Croatia, so forged documents as a credible document to please the interest agencies. This is what judges in Croatian courts do by hitting the interest agencies that take away people, the families' roof over their heads. The second thing, when we are talking about these cases, we had a debate on the recall of Minister Maric, we have no answer on how the customs administration, which was in his jurisdiction a month before his association with the Pavicic family, issued this key document, which is accompanied by evidence, and it is about excise duty-free goods, VAT etc.. As long as we have such cases, there is no progress, this government can't do it, that's known, it generates problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70805	Thank you very much, no more replicas, thank you very much. Mr. Michel Jaksic has his own debate, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70806	The Honorable Vice President, the Honorable Ministers, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. So today is one of the new amendments to the Law on Courts on which we had the opportunity to hear today a brief report on the Justice Committee. We also had the opportunity to hear today Minister Malenica, and we had a certain preparation through certain media information that came to us to see how and in which direction it would all go together. And what I can say is that we're going back to that starting point that we've repeated several times today and we're repeating it over and over and over again. We have a judiciary where there is a very, very bad perception, a judiciary that is simply not believed by citizens, and that is something that is increasingly common to us not to say is constantly being warned by the European Commission. Much has been said and written in the course of the election for the president and president of the Supreme Court, and not to mention all those corruption affairs in which unfortunately the judges were involved, and it would not be enough all this time that I have for this debate that will last even longer. Four minutes. Now, what we should be asking ourselves when we are discussing this law and we are going with some proposals at all, supplements, changes, whether these changes that we are discussing today are precisely this step or whether these changes are enough to say that this is now something that will restore confidence in the Croatian judiciary and that is now something after which we will no longer have a situation for Zdravko Mamic to become a reformer of the Croatian judiciary with his prophesies of certain judges and afterwards their arrests and everything else that came after that. It is clear from this proposal that it is not a reform package and that it is not something that will restore faith in the judiciary of this country. It would be rude to say that nothing has changed, it would be rude to say that there is not even a tendency for certain things to be fixed, but it would also not be correct and it would not be honest with the citizens to say to ourselves that we have now taken this great reform step after which we will say that this is an independent judiciary and with this judiciary we will become a fine example in the EU, where we are unfortunately on the subject of the judiciary at the bottom. So we asked ourselves a few questions both at the club itself and when we agreed on what and how to distract and discuss why we reduced that package that involved educating judges? We have very many examples that nothing is speeding up, we have very many examples that there are doubts that the judges aren't even trained enough, we've tempered it maximumly. The question has also been raised as to what security checks are carrying and who will control those seeking these security checks, so whether there will even be a system of control for those operating our judicial system. We haven't defined until the end how we're going to set ourselves up to define the origins of the property and the ratio of the assets that our people in the judicial branch have. We have a model where it is said that witches will be decided by the minister himself. What I must stress here is that it is a little strange that when we debated the Supreme Court all of us were full of the mouth of the profession and we wanted to force it away from Milanovic and Plenkovic because there is DSV, there is an independent judiciary, and now we are going to put the art in the hands of the Minister directly elected political figure. So, I'll repeat, there are a lot of things that we can say are attempts to run things for the better and to start looking normal, but unfortunately when we pull it all together, when we add it up, when we see what citizens are thinking today, and when we see what we are doing, we still have the ability to do some things, I have to say that I'm afraid that this isn't a reform package, that this isn't a package of changes that we can expect too much or enough to change for the better, and that after that, we'll be able to say that we have a digitalized judiciary, that we have a judiciary where Zdravko Mamic doesn't reform us, that we don't have refugees in front of the Croatian judiciary that happens the night before the verdict runs across the border, that we can see why, who and how convicted, today, is not enough for what we're asked of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70807	You, too. - Mrs. Crescent. Selak Rasudic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70808	Dear counterpart Jaksic, when debated in America about the election of the Supreme Court president, his name known for months and the debate goes so far that, yes, metaphorically speaking, it checks literally what last utility bill he paid. When we talk here in Croatia about the appointment of people to head office, then eventually we miss things like whether or not someone was a member of the Masonic Lodge and what sanctions it takes to take over. In that sense, my question is this, what do you think is the role in these anti-corruption tax administration mechanisms because what does our property card mean to us? We're not just talking about judges right now, we're going from our own example. I report one house, the other three shut up, and what do you think should be the powers of the Supreme Court in view of their reduction?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70809	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70810	First of all, I have to say that I absolutely agree with the tendency of your question and that it is definitely that the IRS on all these and large cases that we have had, but also in the cases that we have the opportunity to look at today had to be much more proactive, much faster to react and that a lot of the crime that went under our table was partly passed thanks to the IRS which did not respond in time to the disproportionateness of someone's assets and incomes and there is obviously a lot of work ahead of us, if of course there will be a will. What you said about selecting the Supreme Court president, and you absolutely agree, I agree with the American model, we unfortunately had a similar model, but not because we were really looking for the best in the candidates, but because there was a big political hack, a big political harangus, so we could hear and what we shouldn't have, unfortunately not enough about what we wanted with the judiciary. So, with the tendency of your question itself, I agree, and for the work of the Supreme Court, I believe Radovan Dobronic has some plan, regardless of what is lagging around with the High Criminal Court.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70811	Thank you very much, Mr. Jaksic. I guess he doesn't force a model so we don't choose them for life, does he? I guess he doesn't force a model to choose them for life like we did in America. - Mrs. Crescent. Anka Dark-Taritash, please. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70812	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of HS, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a set of laws that are not reform. It's a set of laws that make changes and complements to make the system work better, and so do I. I'm seeing them as laws that the department's competent authority has concluded that there are a number of shortcomings in operation, and from these shortcomings they've tried to get out, but let's just go on two, three issues, the way they try to get out. That's when the thing explodes directly in your face. Yesterday, our prime minister had a press conference on which he referred to the media and how one article in one of the media was exactly on purpose for the reason that the day was meeting with the president of the state, so that today we would have a set of laws relating to the judiciary, and that we would really have an affair that really exploded directly in the face of HDZ and showed that HDZ was the same all along, that there was no Plenkovic and Sanader HDZ, that it was one and the same HDZ that had its continuity, so my question to Mr Plenkovic is who was setting it up for him? That it is today, when this House discusses a set of laws relating to the judiciary and we have arrests in the judiciary, we have where Europe shows us how we deal with European money. But I'm going back to two things I want to stress from these laws. The first thing is about the court's witches. So obviously, the Ministry has concluded that the processes have a problem, so to speak, or an unequal practice related to court experts, evaluators and interpreters, and now even the evaluators become witches. There are two things that I always try to be correct and fair with, I can agree with, and that you're a court expert named by name and last name and that your name and last name are responsible for what you're doing is the first thing, and the second thing that I can agree with equally, that's the 4-year limit, I don't think that restriction should be, but also, it should be clearly defined when you lose the status of a court witch. And there's what I agree with. There's a thing I don't agree with. So we're going to have a mouthful of decentralisation, full of mouths that we need to discuss some things at other levels, but then when we come with the laws, then we see that that's not the case. So, in a whole set of these laws that we have today, we have three things that all the time intertwine, the powers of the minister, the possibility that the minister defines something by a regulation and a theme where, no matter where it all goes together, we want to centralize it exactly where in the Ministry. They're absolutely going to introduce a mess, believe me, every time you try to mess up with a mess, they're going to introduce a mess and a theme of court warlocks, regulations, appointments by a minister, a record that's going to be kept in the ministry, so I need to know what they want. If he wants to introduce order, then if we don't have all the time to have serious court proceedings where two court experts and a different witch come in or says, I'm going to bring in my witch. It's something we need to discuss. And another topic that we need at this time where there really is that curse, God gave you to live in interesting times, but we absolutely live in interesting times is the role and importance of the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court appreciates everyone's wishes, so the ministry responsible for the judiciary regarding the Constitutional Court's decision to appoint the Supreme Court president read only part. The part that suits him. The part where he wants to put the president of the state in order in a certain way without going to change the Constitution and wants to send a message, but he did not read the whole ruling of the Constitutional Court, so he then introduces only part into the law. I'm not going to talk about some constitutional court rulings where they were bound by the Election Law, related to the amendment of certain law on women's rights to abortions that have been in a drawer for years because they wouldn't want to interfere and would not want us to cause any objections. This means if you decide to introduce and respond to the Constitutional Court's ruling in the law, then you do it from beginning to end, not just in the part that suits you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70813	You, too. Mr. Damir Habian, final, HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70814	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Here you can actually at the end of the debate on these two draft laws that once again on behalf of the HDZ Club, I would like to point out the importance of these legislative proposals, regardless of what we have heard here today from some opposition advocates, that if I am not mistaken for the camel, we have also heard no constructive proposal as to who should have proposed such laws, or who is the authorising officer, and the same on the other hand, besides these allegations, we have actually not heard from the opposition, as is usually the case. I'll also remind you of that discussion about the anti-corruption strategy for the period '21-'30. where, in fact, apart from the mere flossules, there was not a single constructive and concrete proposal. The amendments adopted by this proposal are therefore indeed numerous, from the revision of the regulatory framework of permanent judicial experts, assessors and experts, in particular the regulation that, in the event of the suspension of the duties of the Supreme Court President, DSV will now be authorised by the judge who, until the election of the Supreme Court President, will carry out the affairs of the judicial administration, the regulation of the compulsory establishment of specialised judicial departments in municipal courts in the county courts' seats to handle matters under the law governing family relations, and other amendments and additions. With regard to the amendments to the provisions which refer to the status issues of permanent judicial experts, assessors and interpreters, instead of deciding on their status issues by county and commercial courts, this authority will now have the minister responsible for the affairs of the judiciary or the minister of justice and administration, which we think is, above all, good because of what is actually, in some ways now it will be all in one place, so far we have been able to say quite differently and perhaps the problem was, in fact, to determine who the evaluators and interpreters and experts are, given that such a list has been kept both in county and commercial courts. Since the practice has shown that there is no fundamental and significant difference between the categories of permanent judicial warlocks and the assessors, it is proposed to abolish a special arrangement for permanent judicial assessors who will now continue to conduct their affairs as experts. So far, permanent court experts and interpreters have been appointed for a 4-year period, but these amendments suggest that once appointed warlocks and interpreters could do jobs as long as there are legally prescribed conditions, which we also consider to be a good solution. It is also important to highlight the changes relating to the election of the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. In light of the recent election of the President of the Supreme Court, and having regard to the legal and legal understanding of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, which has been highlighted in its resolution of 23 March this year, it is proposed that only the timely and complete declarations of the DSV be made to the President of the Republic of Croatia, who will then request the opinion of all candidates of the competent authorities or the general meeting of the Supreme Court of the relevant parliamentary committee or the Committee of Justice. It is also specified in more detail in the situation that if the President of the Republic of Croatia, within 15 days of the date of receipt of the last adopted opinion of the competent authorities, does not propose any candidate to be the President of the Supreme Court, the DSV will cancel the public call and, no later than 8 days, resume the selection procedure of the Supreme Court President by publication of a new public call. Changes and additions relating to the security check should also be mentioned here. I also mentioned this in the opening statement by the motionor, or the minister, that very question. So, so far, we've got security checks being carried out for every judge at the time of the first appointment. Also, there's already this periodic check every 5 years for jumpers, now it's being introduced for all judges. The security review report will be submitted to the Supreme Court President and the final assessment of the existence of security obstacles shall be carried out by the Special Council, whose members of the Supreme Court Judges' Office shall be appointed a general session of the Supreme Court. In the event that security obstacles are identified, the President of the Supreme Court shall be obliged to notify the same of all the powers of enforcement, that is to say, the President of the Court of Justice of which, where the judge is acting on the duty or the President of the High Court, the competent judicial council and the Minister of Justice and the Administration. What is important to point out, said the minister in his opening argument, is not about any influence of the executive authority on the rule of law since the same principle of determining the strict responsibility within a tight procedure as it has been so far will apply. In view of all of the above and what Bosnjakovic also said in the introduction on behalf of the club, the HDZ Representatives Club will support the proposed amendments and additions to these two laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70815	Thank you, too. - Mrs. Crescent. Romana Nikolic, Social Democrats' Club, finally too, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70816	Thank you, Vice President. Well, I can't be myself and the Social Democrats Club not to look back on today's action to arrest the former minister, former Minister Žalac, because here we are today discussing very important issues at the plenary session, and our judiciary obviously didn't consider that there were some, some doubts about corruption, so we're waiting for the external institution of the European Prosecutor's Office to initiate, to initiate the procedure. But well, that's this one, I would still end up on behalf of the club looking back on today's topic and change. In all the discussions we have heard today about amendments and additions to the Law on Courts and Amendments and additions to the Law on Areas and Seats of Courts, I will briefly look back at myself in the final debate on behalf of the Social Democrats Club. The creation of the Law on Courts has been approached in order to revise the normative act of permanent judicial experts of assessors and interpretations which, as the Ministry alone stated in the explanation of the decision on their status issues, additionally burdened the courts and has also been approached for the sake of diverse and unequal case-law, to the very harm of the court and assessors themselves. For the reason that only this profession in the Republic of Croatia, which had not changed for 23 years, or legally coordinated the evaluation of work as well as all other professions, was even reduced in disputes that were temporarily paid from the budget by 20%, so the burden of savings on them that had an illegal and non-coordinated indexation of labour value compared to the increase in the cost of life. Although the original draft provided for in Article 126(2) on the conditions of appointment of permanent court experts, the recognition of appointments to only natural persons with completed high professional training, with great pressure from long-standing court experts, the appointment of permanent court warlocks is accepted as a permanent court expert may also be appointed a natural person with completed appropriate professional studies, pre-graduate or graduate university studies. If it hadn't come to terms with the high level of expertise that has been completed, many of the existences would have been at risk today, taking into account the long-term internship and doing the same work in this field of action. It should also consider the adoption of a law on judicial warlocks that would allow for more systematic regulation of the field of work of judicial experts and respect for their independence in work, rather than resort to permanent amendments to their rules. Also, given that 3300 of the 50 professions and 140 specialties were recorded, they should be allowed to establish a chamber. The same thing was not to be done was to delete the profession of witches and assessors from the list of regulated professions where they were until January 2019. Other amendments to the Law on Courts are cosmetic. In the amendments to the Law on Areas and Seats of the Courts in order to provide effective legal protection for the family, and in particular the protection of children, it was necessary to establish specialised departments for family participation in the municipal court in the county courts we have been waiting for years. According to the prosecutor's report for children in 2020, 10% more applications were received compared to the previous year. A total of 1923 new applications were received in connection with violations of children's rights. Dissatisfaction also causes poor treatment of the child in proceedings, inadequate, disappointing judgments, child's privacy disorder, lack of information from parents and children on children's rights and ways of achieving them, and in particular too long the duration of the procedure. For years it has already been appealed to the establishment of specialised family courts and the education of judges who would specialize exclusively in this area and whose jurisdiction would be all proceedings in the domain of family legal protection of the child including criminal and criminal proceedings and the implementation of judicial decisions. What I would particularly point out is that in 2020, the six-year National Strategy for the Rights of Children expired and we demand its immediate adoption in order to improve the protection system of children's rights and to improve the work of these new departments of specialised family departments within the family court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70817	You, too. Mr. Ante Kujundzic, in front of the Club of Representatives of Most, also final. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70818	Thank you, Chairman. So in this final part, I'm going to briefly look back at everything that's been said on behalf of the club and add everything that hasn't been enough time. Therefore, in the context of reviewing the normative framework of permanent judicial experts, evaluators and interpreters, their role in the judicial process is greatly valorised by their awards and should therefore assume one part of the responsibility for all the negative happening, and the consequence is in fact their engagement or not engagement. In the context of the introduction of the Director of the Judiciary's office, we consider it unnecessary. Therefore, it would be better and more effective for the system itself to add for this money which, whichever reference is higher in land books or court advisors more to solve land-based book cases which, with compensation, make up most of the cases in smaller municipal courts such as those in Makarska. And the number that can also be reduced to a minimum by amending the provisions of the Law on Land Books extends the possibility of conducting individual correct procedures that are simpler, faster, more correct, and generally led by judicial advisers or zk referents. As for the passing of a special expert examination for court officials, I repeat that the exams can be something serious that proves the examination of the type of judicial examination, and otherwise for everything else, Josipa Rimac is available. As far as the High Criminal Court of the Republic of Croatia is concerned, it is definitely a well-imagined project if there is seriousness and will to deal with problems in the criminal trial. If it is representative as an example of the verdict recently, these days in the Free Dalmatia of the former mayor of Imoth, then the situation will not be well, and it would better not be, it would be better if there were no criminal court. As regards cases which actually regulate family relations or family legal matters, it is also the ministers in principle of praise worth the project since this law is merely a prerequisite for the creation of a change in family matters. The specialisation of judges in terms of more effective family legal protection has thus far not contributed to the greater efficiency of judges, nor to the quality resolution of these types of cases. Theoretically speaking, if you really go beyond these negativitys that will have to be solved, then there could be a discharge of smaller courts and a quality level of legal protection could be achieved for this category of parties that are most sensitive. In practice and now in larger courts we have judges who only work this kind of case and have not made any special progress as I have already said in professional terms and have not raised the level of legal protection to some enviable level, moreover they have only progressed procedurally because such cases have special procedures. However, nothing has essentially changed and, in these cases, it is largely done on a superficial and unprofessional basis, and this is the consequence of the lack of both the law and, of course, of all the institutions involved in such a form of case. All of the above actually leads to the conclusion that neither specialisation nor anything... can bring efficiency without the right legislative framework. Well, more objects of this kind have been quality solved since the non-payment of abstention is a criminal offense. So if you're not paying your child's obligations, you're going to jail, you're going to all the specializations and training of judges at a conviction in a non-payment sentence, so if you still don't pay, then you call off the terms and go to jail. And by some miracle, every one of them finds money and pays. While there was no such arrangement, most of these and such selfish individuals would spend that money instead of their own child in a local bar, casino, or bookshop. As far as the election of the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia is concerned, it may be best to remove the President of the Republic of Croatia from this equation at least until someone who is from the same ruling party, so whether it was HDZ or SDP is less important. That we need a constitutional court opinion, so who's sitting in the Constitutional Court? All kinds of lawyers who have absolutely nothing to do with politics, or is it just one flossula? However we believe in a good intention that is visible in a large part of what we can read in these two laws, and as Club Mosta, we will give you a green light for a second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70819	Time. And Mrs. Sandra Bencic also finished on behalf of the Club of Representatives and representatives of the Green-Left bloc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70820	Thank you. So, I was already here about a month ago telling you that some of our expectations of judicial reform procedures, including these laws that we're talking about here today. So our one of the basic requirements was to stop and in some way cancel privatisation under quotes I say certain types of judicial proceedings such as executive proceedings and return to court-based cases with certain repetitive cases which the courts have, these are not only executions, but also some others, with a high degree of automation of these processes and with the use of new digital technologies. On the other hand, complex and important cases are dealt with in specific flexiblely designed procedures that are treated according to the needs of a particular case using modern methods of managing cases and of course teamwork in courts. We also asked to ensure access to the courts for all so-called. the right court cases, and in order to free ourselves of capacity, we mentioned that it was necessary to reduce the circle of cases in which the court carried out only specific judicial administrations and that such transactions were transferred to court officials. We also asked for the promotion of autonomous dispute resolution and the construction of the constitution of alternative dispute resolution, including in consumer disputes. We can also support one part of this, which is that we have proposed specializations within the courts. So, not the establishment of special courts, but the specialisation within courts to be achieved by the measures of these specialised departments within the structure of these regular courts that we have. However, we also believe that it is necessary to reorganise the entire network of courts in a way to break the link between the area of jurisdiction and the administrative organisation of the state. So the optimal organisation of a network of first-degree courts in Croatia according to our proposal should have a maximum of 12 courts, and the network of district courts should have a maximum of 4 courts preferably in the centres of legal excellence in which both law schools and most institutions are located. That doesn't mean, of course, that we wouldn't stay in court offices and services in other cities, but they would be part of these courts of the district or the first degree, not that we have literally this number of courts that we have that are not tied to each other in such a network. And what we're constantly stressing is that it is necessary to change actually the model in which you become a judge or judge. So, in most cases today, judges and judges are so-called. Career judges, therefore, who enter the system after completing their education are first counselors, then become judges. What we think would be good and prescribed is that at least 1/5 places in the appointment of judges are reserved for so-called so-called. collateral appointments from the ranks of professors, respected legal professionals and lawyers. Why does it matter? It is therefore important to ensure that people who deal naturally with the legal profession, but from other angles or within other areas, enter the judiciary because it brings a new dynamic and new exchange of knowledge. When you have such a large percentage of judges that career judges mean your 24 are in court, they've been in court since 24 years and they haven't done anything but that part, you just have to strengthen that effect of closing courts to the outside and to the other institutions. We also believe that the State Judicial Council should be fundamentally reorganised and differently conceptualised and that decisions should be taken only by consensus in certain cases, and that within it should be formed A tight court with a professional president. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70821	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point, and we'll vote on it when the conditions are met. We are now passing respected MPs and MPs as we decided this morning for a united discussion of the following two points: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Attorney's Office, first reading, P.Z. No. 208th and - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Areas and Seats of State Lawyers, first reading, P.Z. No. 210. The Government Proposer is a member of the Republic of Croatia. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the The Rules of Procedure of HS. When discussing these items of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. Does the president want to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Minister of Justice and Administration Ivan Malenica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70950	Honorable Vice President HS, respected MPs and respected MPs. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the State's Attorney's Office shall more precisely regulate the procedure for the appointment of the Chief State Attorney of the Republic of Croatia, the obligation of periodic renewal of the national attorney's security check shall be prescribed and the system of compulsory training of the State's attorneys shall be improved. As with the amendments to the Law on Courts which we previously discussed in accordance with the legal considerations of the Constitutional Court, provisions are also amended in the procedure of the appointment of the Attorney General. The Government of the Republic of Croatia will only provide timely and complete applications to the State Attorney's Council. If the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not propose any candidate within 15 days of the date of receipt of the opinion of the relevant HS Committee, the State Attorney's Council of Justice will cancel the call and resume the procedure for the appointment of the President, the President or the Attorney General within 8 days. The implementation of security checks for state attorneys during the appointment is also prescribed by the Law on the State's Attorney's Board. These amendments also introduce a periodic renewal of the security clearance for all deputies every 5 years. from their entry into service. The procedure is such that state lawyers apply for the renewal of SOA security checks. The final decision on the existence of security obstacles will be made by a special commission appointed by the College of the National Attorney General of the Republic of Croatia. The main state attorney will inform all authorised applicants of the phasing-out procedure of any security obstacle. By entering into force of this law for all deputy state attorneys who passed security checks more than five years ago. A re-check will be requested. In order to further encourage the professional training of state attorneys, provisions on professional training are also amended, the dynamics of compulsory professional training of state attorneys will be governed by a special regulation. In addition, the obligation to pass a specific part of the expert examination for civil servants after the introduction of the electronic conduct of the national expert examination is introduced. The obligation to adopt a regulation on the internal order of state attorneys shall be laid down by the jurisdiction of the judicial inspection of the Ministry of Justice and of the administration and the conditions under which public officials and state attorneys may carry out those tasks, the conditions for directors of the State Attorney's Office shall also be specified and it shall be prescribed that the directors of the State's Attorney's Office have all the higher first-degree state attorneys with 15 or more appointed deputies or all of the senior state attorneys. The process of recognising the right of judicial officials to compensation for a separate life from the family defines the concept of family members. When it comes to the amendment of the Law on Areas and Headquarterss of State Attorneys, this proposal proposes the separation of the Municipal and State Attorney's Office in Zagreb and the establishment of the Municipal Civil Law Office in Zagreb for the conduct of the Municipal Civil Court in Zagreb, the Municipal Working Court in Zagreb and the Municipal Court in the Sesvets in relation to civil cases, and the municipal criminal court or municipal criminal justice for representation before the Municipal Criminal Court in Zagreb, the Municipal Criminal Court in Zagreb and the Municipal Court in Sesveda in relation to criminal and criminal cases. Appreciable MPs and MPs, the adoption of these amendments will make further steps to improve the work of the state's attorney's office. By introducing continuous security checks on state lawyers, we want to ensure the highest standards in the conduct of the state's attorney's office and to strengthen citizens' confidence in the judicial system. These security checks will be carried out according to the highest standards of the profession without any influence from the executive authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70951	Thank you very much. We've got multiple replicas, the first respected representative of the Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70952	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Dear Minister, here we go forward with the amendments and additions to the judicial laws. Of course, it should also be commended for these measures that go hand in hand and for the appointment of the attorney general, also for the security checks of the state's attorneys, professional training, the passing of a special part of the expert exam, but here we have heard today that this is not a reform law package, but that this is for a more effective judiciary. It is good to remember that we are just in July 2018. We went with amendments to the 6 laws relating to the judiciary when we went with reform measures with the merger of municipal and criminal courts, when we also reduced the number of courts in the area of the Republic of Croatia and reduced the number of employees, made it possible for more active and accessible judicial and judicial support to all citizens of the city, the Republic of Croatia and that this is a simple continuation in this direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70953	Your Honor, Minister Malenica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70954	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Yes, here we have a package of laws relating to additional and new changes in the judicial system that go in order to make this system more efficient and efficient. So we are aware of the large number of pending cases, the length of proceedings, so in 2019, the total number of civil litigation procedures, or the duration of these proceedings, were 133 days, and we are going to go through both action plans and the amendments to the Law on Procedural Procedures, take a shorter time to resolve the large number of pending cases that we had at the beginning of this year 460,000. Thus, many activities are taken not only through changes to the legislative framework but through certain project activities, so the National Resistance and Recovery Plan, so 13 reforms, 6 investments, and also, the Multi-annual Financial Framework are an opportunity to make further steps and make our judiciary efficient and efficient. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70955	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70956	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. In the last DORH report, we saw a lot of bad statistics as far as DORH personnel are concerned, but by statistics, I mean age employees. I was wondering if they were planning new competitions, new jobs, rejuvenation of DORH's staff, and did you even talk to the attorney general on the subject? For many years now, new lawyers and new law students have found it difficult to find their place in judicial bodies, whether or not it was a ban on employment, but according to these statistics, both with courts and with DORH and with state attorneys, we see that such a trend continues and that it is not good and that in a few years we could get into serious problems, as well as with the advancements and years of experience themselves because we will not have it in the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70957	Your Honor, Minister Malenica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70958	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So every year when we prepare the budget for the following year, of course, we communicate with both the Supreme Court and the Attorney General in terms of needs and budgets and the main state or DORH, so here at any request, or the DORH requires consent from the Ministry of Justice for new employment. So there certainly is the Ministry if this allows for systematicisation and if there are vacancies or therefore it is about retirement leaves, the Ministry shall issue consent and therefore enable the employment of new and officials and officials in the state's attorneys. I would just point out that back a few years ago, the DORH budget is constantly increasing, the budget and the USKOK are constantly increasing, so that we and every one, every one of their demands, react in accordance with the budget of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70959	Thank you. Dear representative Jeckov.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70960	Thank you. Mr. Minister, do you think it's a practice so far that state's attorneys are only educated once a year?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70961	Your Honor, Minister Malenica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70962	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So the same subject as in the Law on Courts, so we are amending the Law on Courts, just now proposed, and these amendments to the DORH Law introduce the possibility that, and the obligation, state lawyers, but also judges are therefore educated not only once a year, at least once, so it was now prescribed, but more than once a year. So we have the Judicial Academy, we're going to revise through the amendments to the law itself to that Academy, and we're going to introduce through sublegal acts of education and more than once a year. So also through the family departments that we form through the amendments to the Law on Courts, so this requires further education of judges, I believe that some new areas, some new areas, are looking for additional education of state lawyers, so that in cooperation with the Judicial Academy, we develop these programmes and allow for the improvement that I believe will be regulated by sublaw in a way that is not once a year or more times a year and that it is mandatory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70963	Thank you. Dear Representative Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70964	Thank you. Dear Ministers, therefore, in Croatia the system is put forward so that the political elite, together with the politicians who are being investigated or the actors of the affair, decides on the main state attorney, or on his work that should actually end the political corruption. So I'm talking about submitting the report on all the work we need once a year, I'm the attorney general. Is this a good way out of the swamp in which Croatia is stuck and which has actually nailed us to the European bottom in all indicators, especially when we talk about corruption? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70965	Your Honor, Minister Malenica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70966	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Therefore, the judicial authorities, whether they are courts, state attorneys or specialised prosecutors such as the USKOK, therefore do their own work independently and independently, have no interference and influence of the executive or some other, legislative authorities on their work, so that I reject and seek that the executive authority affects their work. So, we are here to provide them with a quality legislative framework, to provide them with material working conditions, to provide them with consent for employment and officials and officials, and therefore, on DSV and DOV to carry out procedures and choose the best candidates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70967	The Honorable representative of the Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70968	In these laws we also deal with the techniques of repeating a public call for the selection of the main state attorney, we know what kind of scandal we had with the former chief state attorney, so the possibility that government and parliament are being denied important information from their résumés, links with different secret societies, with different social, political, financial groups actually shows that when we choose a chief state attorney we can choose a cat in a bag and what we need, these are different real, not formalist criteria of choice, so that they are verifiable, that responsibility for false information from a résumé or for hiding certain information and it is time for candidates to start passing the solution, not only of HS, but also of the general public. We know that in America it takes a choice of some important functions and that would be, that would be a real reform.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70969	Your Honor, Minister Malenica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70970	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So we also explained the procedure in the area of appointment of the President of the Supreme Court and here in the DORH Act and the procedure for the appointment of the Chief State Attorney of the Republic of Croatia. Of course, we also introduce security checks, as we have introduced as judges, I believe that with these changes we will slowly restore citizens' confidence in Croatian institutions, primarily those we are discussing here today, so the DORH and the courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70971	Honorable representative Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70972	Thank you very much, Your Honor. In your own presentation, you yourself said that we are now introducing a law and obligation to pass a special examination for civil servants and that there is a possibility that those who do not pass the examination to stop and serve them. Of course, it is good to introduce exams because it is a way to check the professionality of the staff and thus achieve as much expertise as possible. But what does that mean for those officers who have been in the system for a long time? Will they also have to pass such a test? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70973	Your Honor, Minister Malenica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70974	Therefore, this is about harmonising with the amendments to the legislative framework relating to a state expert examination where the Ministry of Justice has been left with the possibility that, in a particular part of the state's examination, it is specifically prescribed that a specific part of the State's examination is prescribed for judicial officers, or for officials working in judicial bodies. And it was through the Law on the State's Attorney's Office and the Law on Courts that we prescribed a special part. So this applies in fact to all those who profuturo pass the state expert exam it will consist of two parts of so general and special part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70975	Honorable representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70976	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister, I kind of think things should be called a real name. This is going to change and supplement the law and these are actually certain such changes that you have concluded that in accordance with the practice you need to make. You can't call it reform. It's not a reform that you wear a gray suit instead of a blue suit. So it's absolutely not a reform. But my question will be very simple. Since you're a minister who's been in charge and on the subject of administration a lot lately in laws, we have things that don't want to be resolved by law, we move to regulations, we transfer to certain powers of ministers. That's how you've got it in these laws. I'm interested, therefore, in the possibility that the minister is giving certain instructions about work and everything else, but I'm interested in this thin line where you decide not to define something by law, but by regulation. Here you have, for example, transferred by the minister's authority to the regulation of the scope of the financial material affairs of the State's attorney's office, decided to transfer it to the regulation. Where's that thin line?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70977	Thank you. Your Honor, Minister Malenica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70978	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Therefore, when we look at nomotechnicalally, when making the rules, or primarily the law, it should be so understood, summed up, and all that is prescribed in more detail than what is in the law is the legislator’s intention, or the legislator’s intention to be in the sublaw. There are a number of things that we and the Law on Courts and the Law on the State's Attorney's Office have prescribed through sublegal regulations that we will regulate these details which we consider and we have estimated that there is no place in the law to burden the legal text but that they are in sublaws. Therefore, the regulations of the sublegislative system or of any other sublegal regulation obliges all addresses to which it relates, whether it is a law or a sublaw. So it's purely nomotechnical to make the law more clear that it's not burdened with any more detailed norms, so here we've estimated that in certain situations in certain areas we can handle it more effectively through some sublegal regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70979	Dear representative Vidovic Kristo.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70980	The arrest of Plenović Minister Gabriela Žalac is in fact the first concrete line of Croatia since its membership in the European Union, as Croatia is a hostage of corrupt, consensual judicial structures which are told by the medical dictionary by cancer over the Croatian future. IT'S funny when we're looking into how many beers and wine some kind of mayor drank at some lunch, and millions and billions don't see it. Are you aware that, as Gabriela Žalac lived in the illusion that Plenkovic's protection will keep her from being prosecuted, that there will also come a time when justice will be prosecuted? Because when you from the DORH government prohibit research, for example, the case of Minister Maric and the loan in HBOR, as well as Plenkovic's role in these activities, it is an influence on the judiciary and criminal acts. The corruption you conduct is a direct cause, for example, for our teachers to have such wages that we do not want to live with them.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70981	My colleague Vidovic Kristo, what you've been saying is out of the question. We're talking about additions to the Law on the State's Attorney's Office and to the headquarters of the state's attorney's office. I'm giving you a warning and I'm begging you don't do it in the future. In Article 232, I gave you that warning. Please don't do this in the future and don't abuse me. I'm afraid of hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70982	The article precisely that 232. This was very much in the topic, because DORH is not investigating Minister Marić or Plenkovic's role in all these activities...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70983	... /Intruder Reiner: Well, I am giving you a second warning in accordance with Article 232. because.../...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70984	...and today we're discussing the DORH.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70985	... speak again outside the subject and thus lose the right to speak. Here's your buddy, Grmo.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70986	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament you have injured a number of articles, but here I will refer to Article 238. My colleague was talking about the work of the state's attorney general, and the theme that I remind you of, perhaps you've fallen asleep, I don't know if you've had lunch before, maybe you've been caught tired after lunch. So the topic is the State Attorney's Office and I ask you to withdraw these reminders that you gave to your colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70987	I'll give you a 239th warning, and I advise you not to teach me how to run a session. I'm sure you'll find your hell-bent party coming to power one day and you'll sit there and then you can run the session any way you want, and now you're risking another warning. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70988	The Honorable Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament from the ranks of the party that is so good that the Supreme Court has confirmed that the corruption organisation, whose member of the Presidency today has been arrested by the European Public Prosecutor's Office, I congratulate you on how well you are doing, and I regret the Croatian citizens who must suffer your corruption...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70989	....Intruder Reiner: Excellent. On the basis of Article 240(1), I give you a reminder by subtracting words./...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70990	... leaving Croatia, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70991	Here you go, the honourable representative Nikolic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70992	I thank the Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor. As we enter the EU, we have opened the door to the European labour market. Foreign Member States also have open access to the Croatian labour market. The Law on Lawyership would allow the liberalisation of the legal services market in the Republic of Croatia. Please explain, as well as a guarantee, that this will not put itself in a more unfavourable position of our law firm and when foreign law firms come to us on the market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70993	Your Honor, Minister Malenica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70994	Thank you very much. So, we are discussing and presenting the Law on DORH and the Law on Areas and Headquarterss of State Attorneys, so your question concerns the Law on Lawyership which will be at the hearing after we discuss the Law on DORH and the Law on Areas and Headquarterss of State Lawyers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70995	The esteemed representative Puljak has.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70996	Dear Ministers, in the State Attorney-General's report for the past year, it states that the USKOK has only 33 judicial employees who should cover the responsibility of the entire Republic of Croatia. Do you think 33 judicial employees are enough to detect here all corruption affairs that we learn from the media day to day? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70997	Your Honor, Minister Malenica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70998	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So we do not join the organisation of the work of the attorney's office, the state's attorneys, the USKOK, so each of these bodies has certain acts that regulate the organisation, the systematization, the Ministry there, is there to actually secure the funds and in the budget that, in this regard, these state's attorneys, that USKOK can work uninterruptedly, so at any request of the DORH or USKOK, the Ministry approves the consent for employment. Therefore, they are employed or appointed by the DOV, so that it depends on the organisation of work that is primarily introduced by both the chief state attorney and the director of the USKOK. How many people are needed, I don't know at this point.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u70999	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Now we'll go to the debate and the first one will speak on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club respected representative Ruzica Vukovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u71000	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President, the Honorable Minister, the Secretary of State, my colleagues and my colleagues. Therefore, the DORH Act regulates the establishment and jurisdiction of state attorneys, the internal establishment of state attorneys, powers, rights and responsibilities of state attorneys and deputy state attorneys, the conduct of the affairs of the judicial administration, the state's attorney's office in the state's attorneys' offices, and then, the powers of state's attorneys, the keeping of official secret, the provision of resources for the work of state attorneys and other matters relevant to their work. This Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the DORH Act was firstly approached, according to the Proposer, in order to specify the provisions on the appointment of the Chief State Attorney of the Republic of Croatia, and then to prescribe a specific way of implementing the procedure for the renewal of the foundations of the security, fundamental security checks of state attorneys and the improvement of their compulsory professional training systems, as well as the arrangements for individual issues relating to State employees employed in the DORH. It is especially important. 5, this Article is added to the DORH Act a new Article 99a which prescribes the implementation of periodic background security checks by all deputy state attorneys, and since it is inseparably related to assumptions for the orderly conduct of the state's attorney's office. Since basic security checks are carried out in the procedures for the appointment of deputy state attorneys and the law governing the implementation of security checks provides for the renewal of the security checks carried out every 5 years, the procedure is also prescribed by special law. Those procedures shall be carried out in accordance with the law governing security checks, unless otherwise prescribed by this Act, and in particular the delivery of the safety check reports to the competent authority for the final assessment of the existence of security barriers and the notification of the established existence of safety barriers shall be made. The Minister responsible for the affairs of the judiciary shall be empowered to lay down the procedure for the submission of applications for the renewal of the security clearance. That doesn't apply to the attorney general. The deputies are, therefore, a far greater threat to the system than the attorney general himself. I conclude this from the text of the bill which is the subject of today's debate. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected by the Croatian public, let me briefly remind you of not so many distant events in Ours when we talk about the State's Attorney General, and then consider whether it was necessary to amend this Law that the Proposer failed to suggest, and it proved to be extremely important. So, we're talking about a security check on the candidate for the attorney general. When former state attorney, Chief State Attorney Jelinic, 2018, was proposed as chief state attorney, Prime Minister Plenkovic said he had the necessary experience to perform that function, noting that the government considers it to be a quality candidate and a man with professional and human integrity and who will carry out his job knowingly, in accordance with the law and impartially. His predecessor at the head of DORH, Dinko Cvitan then described him as an absolute professional who went through all the instances and knows the system, people and problems. A colleague, Bosnjakovic, meanwhile, cited his appointment and explained the need for new energy to contribute to the even better operation of the DORH. But shortly after the resolution decision, HS President Gordan Jandrokovic argued that Jelinic did not declare at the moment of his election that he was a member of the free builders' lodge and that in his case it was a double loyalty. All this points to the need to amend the law in part of the security clearance that the candidate for the attorney general does not go through in the process of appointing him to the duty. Article 13 of the current Security Verification Act lists persons who are subject to security checks and does not specify a candidate for the Attorney General. One item states that people who are admitted to work or work in special bodies to combat organised crime and corruption are being checked. However, this applies to USKOK employees, but not to the attorney general and his associates. If the membership of the main state attorney at the Masons' Association was then discovered that he was subject to verification, it remains to be assessed by experts. However, as part of the security check of the highest level of the person, they must fill out a questionnaire concerning their material condition, the material condition of his family’s ropes, where they were staying abroad, from which the diseases are suffering, etc., but there are no questions about membership in NGOs and organisations. Persons who meet the questionnaires shall be given the will to apply for membership in such organisations or associations according to their own choice. Let us also briefly consider the situation where the main state attorney submits a report on his work in the Croatian Parliament, in which fellow representatives of the party whose president but also party is the subject of the condemning verdicts, then traders of mandates as well as former ministers who should be hit by the USOK and the State's attorneys themselves, but also those who have been elected on one list, and have changed the camp from opposition to the ruling team, some have even changed the worldview and that in the Croatian Assembly of the highest representative and legislative body in which most of them are set up to betray the will of voters, which some legal experts consider corruptive action. They should be asked by the attorney general for support in his further work, if that's weirder. We should discuss and decide the work of the DORH and USKOK, whether the path to Croatia is a country where political corruption has been the cancer of the entire society for years just to get out of the bottom where they put us ruling. Let me remind you, for example, that Tomislav Saucha discussed the report submitted by Drazen Jelinic, former members of the Club of the late Milan Bandic discussed Lovro Kuščević, Goran Maric, Milan Kujundzic, ministers who were sent out from the previous government to affairs about property, real estate and bargaining. Those whom the state's attorney should prosecute decide on his work and his fate. Why would this policy today help the prosecution to process it tomorrow? The state's chief attorney demanded changes to laws that would prevent or restrict court from coming out of their jurisdiction when deciding on indictees, especially those against politicians. But could this be called a conflict of interest? Who in Croatia is afraid of whom? Instead of politicians terrified of investigating the State's Attorney's Office, he must be terrified of their remarks, even criticism, even asking them to help him in his work. For example, when creating a state budget, setting out the means to work for them in order to pursue them more easily when they are wrong about the laws. This is not only humiliating, but also a devastating situation not only for the state's chief attorney, but also for the state's attorney, but also for the entire live society watching that Croatia is fighting political corruption so that politics chooses, assesses and approves the work of the attorney general. Sounds a little absurd, doesn't it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u71001	On behalf of the Representatives' Club, Mosta time will be shared by respected representatives Kujundzic and Grmoje. First of all, the respected representative Kujundzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u71002	Thank you, Chairman. It would be unfair for the Croatian public, so although the minister does not believe he will hear it, it would be unfair to blame him for all individuals who defile or exploit themselves within the system and throw mud at the whole system. But he is a minister, and it is his responsibility not to be like this, and that he who dares exist to wipe him off the face of the earth or the system as such. And it remains for us to repeat and point to what is not right. And within the very proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the State's Attorney's Office, I could start this address on behalf of the Club with a number of different bad phenomena. But I'd rather use the time I have to point out what the purpose and purpose of all of us here is to make the state and life of each individual simpler and better, at least it should be the spirit of every law. Unfortunately, this one isn't. So these changes are nothing more than a form of cosmetic caressing that is completely irrelevant to the functioning of the system itself, although the fundamental changes in the powers of the state's attorneys themselves would greatly speed up the work of the courts. And especially by looking at the powers of the state's attorneys, I'm going to mention what's most important to all of us, and these are civil suits. The civil departments of the courts are actually covered by cases where the party to the Republic of Croatia and the fear and lack of authority alone leads to the fact that state lawyers often delay procedures by making complaints even when it is clear that the state has no interest in any case of dispute. For example, a person sues for the establishment of property rights that has been in his possession for generations. She was inherited by her grandfather's grandson. It's completely fenced with drywall. My grandson would build a house, he'd take a loan, he'd get married, and so on. And he stayed at the end of his life. Let's say in the country. The Republic of Croatia registered in land books, the procedure is launched and lasted for years. At the verdict of the appeal and of the man probably, if he gets a favourable verdict, he loses his will for any kind of construction. Well, wouldn't it be more logical, for God's sake, that the state's attorney himself, having determined all the facts and that there's no interest in the Republic of Croatia over the real estate which is and so obviously is the prosecutor's, immediately acknowledges the right to own a man and thus enables him to immediately raise a loan, immediately invests money, spends around, so for example, millions of kuna, the state only takes away about 200 grand from VAT, and if we add to that the spending of all those participants involved in the construction itself, the profits of the state are not much higher. I trust you'll agree to that. Such legal solutions should be dealt with when we talk about DORH, at least here, in this civil department, whose solutions ad hoc therefore have a beneficial effect on the state budget, and for the satisfaction of the citizens themselves and the reduction of numbers, the large number of court cases that burden this system. Of course, this is just one of the examples that can, as I said at the beginning, make life better and simpler for all of us when we get out of this work that we are currently dealing with, and all at the same time, for those who are not within it, who live in the Croatian daily. If that's the purpose of this law to you as a proposing, then do it, I believe, here you are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u71003	In the name of the club will continue the esteemed representative of the bush, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u71004	I've already spoken to the Replica Minister about how it should look like a choice for the attorney general and what all the controls and some kind of checks should go through, not security checks, because we've seen this, which is what these security checks mean for these feelers, but to the public. So the public check, the solution here at HS, because it can't happen to us that the attorney general is a member of the secret organization, a member of the Masons, and that he was hiding it, actually here in front of HS, which is why I've also proposed amendments to the law, so we're not criticizing it, but we're also trying to help you, which, as a criminal act, would introduce a false testimony to the bodies or a false statement to the bodies of the Assembly, the working bodies of HS. But here, I'm sure you won't accept that, as far as the law itself is concerned, here's a detail of the DORH Act, namely in Art. 3 of these amendments supplementing the new items. 71 The law, stipulates that in every state attorney's office, the state's attorney will adopt a regulation on the internal order that will establish jobs and the need for jobs and jobs, and all of this exclusively with the agreement of the Minister of Justice alone. In this regard, given that the main state attorney is at the head of the DORH and that the main state attorney and his office know in some way best the needs of the system of attorneys and have a review of the system and that the main state attorney's office is reporting to the Council on the work of all state's attorneys, the whole system and, in some ways, responsible for the work of all state's attorneys, this is unacceptable because for the creation of jobs in the State's attorneys, it is hereby approved, without expressing prior consent and the main state's attorney. This is also the minimum financial control and autonomy of the DORH system that must be provided through the main state attorney's office, not that we have a situation where the head of that system does not know what his hands or fingers are doing. And in the end, what I really wanted to say here, I already called in the speech, the current shift of the head of the SAFU, member of the HDZ, given these arrests, and now, why? Because it's the most prominent position in that control system, so it has huge consequences on the entire control system, and I'm asking one question. What was the body doing to verify the Ministry of Finance? Did this cost of paid software also confirm it was correct and requested a return through the statement of expenditure? If they didn't, did they know something, and if they did, why didn't they report the same to the competent institutions for treatment? So this is a big question, I repeat it to the Croatian public. So related to this software and this hoax with European funds, and this is such a serious thing, not to the shift of the head of the SAFU, which is questioning all our projects and funding of all EU funds, so that there is no morality, Andrej Plenkovic would resign today. We are embarrassed in front of the EU institutions, we are disgraced in front of Europe, come into question, so all All of them, come into question all of the funding [[You've left the topic.]] So through EU projects, and this is scandalous what the Vice-President of the Parliament is doing, which makes the debate impossible, and we are discussing the main state's attorney's office, and here is the main issue [[Intruder: Please return to topic.]] Vice-President of the Parliament, which she was doing and that's a million-dollar question and I know why you're interrupting me, that's a million-dollar question, which was done by Zlata Hrvoj Šipek and the main state attorney's office in this case, that the European Public Prosecutor's Office is arresting us to the member of the HDZ presidency and the former minister who Prime Minister Plenkovic was defending here in HS and who you didn't even deign to remove from the party's presidency. [[Intruder: Yes, not Parliament.]] And you've taken away the word here today for certain colleagues who have spoken about this subject, and this topic is very much related. So, what the Croatian institutions have done and by your reaction now, Vice President, it is clear that you were wrong because you yourself are aware that you have given me two warnings for no reason and for any other colleagues only to continue to protect the treatment that for every conviction of the Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, who protected the people for whom the whole of Europe is now laughing at us, who have swindled with European funds. And I repeat again. The question arises as to what the Ministry of Finance was doing, so, did it confirm this expenditure specifically for Software and if they had knowledge... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u71005	You've gone off the subject again, and now I'm going to give you Article 232.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u71006	... about why they didn't react. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] So it's embarrassing... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u71007	.../Intruder Reiner:... give notice./...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u71008	Vice-President of the Parliament means from the ranks of the HDZ this conduct of yours and disrupting this debate of mine. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] But as this behavior of yours and laughing at these affairs cost you, so will this behavior.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u71009	In accordance with Article 232, I take away your word.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u71010	And one day, and one day, that day comes you'll be responsible for your actions. Thank you. [[Intruder: Warning.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u71011	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the Fokus Club of Representatives and Independent Representatives, the respected representative, Damir Bajs, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u71012	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues allow the Croatian Parliament to welcome you. Speaking of today we have already said this is actually the day on which we record 5 laws on the agenda, which are related to the reform of the judiciary of the Republic of Croatia. One of these laws is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Attorney's Office. We've talked about trust, and I have to say it needs to be repeated as many times as it takes. In fact, the trust of our citizens is at an extremely low level the worst in the entire European Union, and in some polls 90% of our citizens do not believe in the legal system. Of course, the European Commission does not believe in the legal system either, the European Union as seen from their report to us, and the Minister of Justice himself, while he was here, confirmed that this perception but also the reality of the judicial system should actually be corrected. I'm going to say that this amendment to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State's Attorney's Office is certainly not going to happen. Here we have a series of technical things that relate to the appointment of the attorney general, and I would say that, apart from the deadlines that are precisely specified here, whether it will be 15 days, 30 or 8 that's actually less important. It's about the foundation and the way he chooses a top state attorney who hasn't really changed in any way. What has changed is the introduction of so-called Security checks. I would say that security check can, and it doesn't have to be proof of something, but if it's already in the law that it's bound to be so it would be a good thing to see what happens when one who is therefore a member of the State's Attorney's Office or one who is actually a candidate comes in for a security check and gets a negative opinion. In fact, the law does not give rise to anything but that the authorities will be informed. What does that really mean? That a man who's a state's attorney, maybe even a state's chief attorney fell for a security check, but actually nothing under this law is going to happen. Do we have an automatic solution? Do we have any automatics that are legally ex-legislative? No, I don't. Only the competent authorities will be notified. Therefore, with the issue of such a solution, the question is whether it will contribute in any way to what we want, which is better efficiency of the State's Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia. We have to say that with the examinations being passed, and of course we're talking about exams for state officials who work there and I have to say one newspaper, and that's that all those who are employed by the state's attorneys will be called state officials, which I don't really think is the purpose of this law. We don't see any other change within the legislative system that would justify anything. Both today's events and earlier developments only point to the fact that within the judiciary, there are, of course, courts, but it is also about the State's attorneyship of the Republic of Croatia, which through therefore a legislative initiative that should be a little wider, stronger and stronger should change. But all right, if we want state's attorneys to be called state's attorneys now, and it's kind of a little reform. Not too big, and how much will it bring for our fellow citizens to trust in the entire legal system that time will show. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u71013	The next is the Club of Representatives will be the SDSS, and a respected representative, Dragana Jeckov, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u71014	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Secretary of State, therefore a united debate should be said that we are currently on these applicable laws whose amendments and additions today have not been passed so long ago. In fact, we talked about them in 2018. However, certain shortcomings have been observed in practice, and in this respect comes, we approach amendments and additions to the whole set of laws whether it is the courts or the one on the bar. The main newspaper in the Law on the State's Attorney's Office is in the essence of the appointment of the attorney general or the attorney general. This paper was initiated primarily by the Constitutional Court decision of the 3rd month of this year, which was adopted because of the need to specify the provisions on the procedure for the appointment of the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, and this Law also specifies the procedure for the appointment of the Chief State Attorney in the Republic of Croatia. More specifically, the deadlines for the proceedings, the applications received and the public call procedure themselves are more precise. So, once in a similar situation, we were burned because of the fact that the appointing process in a particular section of individuals was not clear which led to months-long tape and bickering, so now we prevent possible unwanted scenarios and a sort of déjà vu which is certainly good because there will be no place for different interpretations of clearer legal provisions. In view of the fact that there are certain assumptions for the orderly conduct of the state's attorney's office, this proposal is intended to require that all deputies, every 5 years from their entry into office, be required to renew the basic security clearance carried out, which is delivered through the Ministry of Justice to the competent Security Intelligence Agency. I've got a bit of a misunderstanding here. Will these basic security checks be a mere formality especially since it is prescribed that the verification will be carried out every five years from the entry into service? So they'll know exactly when they're going to be checked, when they can expect what leaves them with a potential space for so-called. ironing the situation and repairing the image. It may be better to consider a provision requiring that the State's attorney may require basic security checks, where appropriate, or when it is estimated that this is meaningful in making sure that it does not run out of 5 years from the previous basic security check. In several conversations with persons working in the judiciary or the state’s attorney’s office, I concluded that most are not satisfied with the amount of professional training, or people have a desire to educate themselves more. However, the way they worked so far has made it impossible for them, has put it on them, has not left enough resources at their disposal, so that their effect is likely and diminished. Of course, there are a number of judicial and law enforcement employees who have a lack of education on their hands, but I fear that those who have a real desire for education and improving their working skills also suffer. Under the current law, state lawyers and deputy state attorneys have the right and obligation at least once a year to professionalise in the judicial academy. That's what I said in my replica. I think it's too small and it's really good to provide more education which will be arranged as we had the opportunity to hear with the rule. Investment in the education of officials and officials in lawyers is a double profit for both officials and officials themselves, as well as for society as a whole because their work we hope will be better, more objective and better. The state on these things really shouldn't be saving, and it will be interesting to see what the rulebook will look like to be passed by the minister. We've had since 1. 4th of next year, therefore, we have a different system of passing the state expert exam in such a way that the future state exam will centralisedly check exclusively the knowledge of matter from the general part of the exam. It's also a newspaper that we'll be able to say later on. The State Attorney shall adopt a regulation on the internal order of the State Attorney's Office, with the prior consent of the Secretary of State, so as to establish the posts of state officials and subscribing officers in the State's Attorney's Office, the required number of executives in each workplace, the conditions for work-place schedules, job descriptions and other relevant issues. However, the article that proposes this really seems unsettled to me because it is not prescribed within which the deadline of the state attorney will adopt the required rule or what will happen if he does not bring it in. In recognising the right of judicial officials to compensation for a separate life as we have heard the problem of defining family members and then being introduced as usual by the members that are necessary. However, when it comes to children, the question has been raised whether children are, for example, foster parents or pastors concerned by a particular judicial official. Especially since other positive regulations explicitly state the other concepts. As regards the amendments to the Law on Headquarterss and Areas of State Attorneys, it is commendable that the problems that have arisen in practice have been heard, so it is for the sake of better organisation of work and easier management of the proposed reorganisation of the network of municipal state attorneys in the area of jurisdiction of the County State Attorney's Office in Zagreb. Well, the quality and economic functioning of the state's attorneys is important primarily for the task of the attorney's office and the objectives to be achieved. As an independent and independent judicial body, the State's attorney is authorised and obliged to act against the perpetrators of criminal offences and other criminal offences, to take legal action to protect the property of the Republic of Croatia and to submit legal remedies for the protection of the Constitution and the rights in general. Due to the undeniable importance of the smooth functioning of the State Attorney's Office, the SDSS's Club of Representatives will support these two proposed legislative proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u71015	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives will be the Social Democrats, and a respected representative, Romana Nikolic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u71016	I would like to thank the Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. The effective judiciary must also be the basis of the rule of law and the bearer of the fight against corruption and should aim to restore citizens' trust in the independence of the judiciary and raise the effectiveness of the entire judicial system. Unfortunately, the fight against corruption is beginning in Europe, because Plenkovic obviously does not want it, Plenkovic does not want to object to Brussels because he wants to escape there. Contrary to the minister's claims of improving the situation in the judiciary, the real situation in the judiciary remains poor. Today's action to arrest former Minister Žalac goes hand in hand. Statistics confirming improvement are selective and do not show fundamentally that changes are slow and insufficient. It compares the situation without a critical comparison with others and the complacency that we are not the worst at all. Contrary to claims that resolving cases is speeding up in reality, the length of court proceedings in matters of interest to the public remains excessive. The crisis in the functioning of the judicial system is seen in mistrust as well as in the social trust crisis in the judiciary. How and not when we... the last government has left 14 ministers or been replaced because of suspicion of corruption. [[You don't understand.]] Unlike the developed justice systems of the European north where more than 80% of the population trust in the judiciary, in Croatia about 80% of citizens do not trust judges and courts. Contrary to claims that public mistrust in the judiciary is a result of the lack of knowledge of the right and of the real functioning of the judiciary among citizens in reality is a low public respect of the judiciary, a reflection of the real systemic shortcomings and gaps between the results achieved by the judicial system and the need of society for adequate legal protection of citizens and legal persons. Today, these amendments, which we are discussing, are about detailing the provisions on the appointment of the attorney general, the regulation of a specific way of implementing the procedure for the renewal of the basic security check, the state's attorneys and the improvement of the system of compulsory professional training, but also the arrangements of certain issues relating to state officials employed in the State's attorney's office. Most of these changes can be freely said cosmetic changes. But I would still refer to article 99a, which speaks of the basic security checks of the deputy state attorney at the request of a state attorney. In this sense, the article is unspeakable, because after that, when security obstacles are established? In particular, the article shall provide for the delivery of reports on the security verification carried out, the responsibility for the final assessment of the existence of safety barriers and the notification of the establishment, the established existence of safety barriers, but shall not be specified as follows. That still needs to be better defined. I would also refer to Article 122(2), which is complemented by the introduction of the obligation to pass a special expert examination for a judicial officer in order to verify the specific knowledge and skills necessary for the successful performance of jobs in these bodies, except for officials who have passed a judicial examination. The period within which such an examination is to be passed shall be prescribed, the period of extension procedure in the event of justified circumstances and a penalty shall also be laid down for the termination of the State Service for officials who do not pass a special expert examination within the prescribed time limit. According to these civil servants are mandatory, with the obligation to pass a state expert examination in the obligation and to pass that additional examination. We're wondering what for? We are not against perfecting, but doubling and imposing additional tests from which no difference is seen from the state exam we are, or we are looking for, that further explanation about this article. Because we need to be aware that the burning problem in the State's Attorney's Office, which has lasted for years, has been a major drain and lack of personnel. Therefore, if the current quality is to be maintained and improved, there must be a way for them to be detained. For quality work, an appropriate cash prize must be given and appropriate working conditions created, otherwise anyone who is more skilled, smarter and believes in himself because of the family that lawyers make a lot of money will go to lawyers. Therefore, they do not need to be burdened needlessly. So much for the Social Democrats Club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u71017	Next on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, speak the esteemed representative of Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u71018	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. As we talked about the Law on Courts, there is much we can do about this Law on State Attorneys. Just in the sea of trouble, we're putting out the fire again with a glass of water. But these changes here are still on a far smaller scale. Most of them are technical, and as such there is no fundamental reason not to support them except to suggest certain things that could be corrected in them, which is similar to that of course to the Law on Courts, in which way is the security check carried out by the attorney general, so the person at the head of the apparatus? But also the question why is it that the procedure for the renewal of the basic security clearance is prescribed by the Minister in charge of justice affairs when we have the Security Intelligence Act, we have rules that already exist on the basis of it? And why give some special authority to the Minister of Justice in something that actually represents a procedure exercised by the judicial authority, in this particular case, the State's Attorney's Office? And of course, the same remark that we made with the Courts Act can't be a security check every five years because that way we announce to people in advance when they're going to be controlled. What the provision says is at least once every five years. Because as with the inspection in general of those to whom the inspection is coming, you're not going to announce that you're going to show up, or when the police are investigating something, you're not going to send a dispatch of two or three days before you search the house to come to them, so it's also natural here. If you're checking on someone, then you shouldn't give him a chance to iron his situation out. What's missing and here is similar to the Law of Courts. There's no part missing that applies to the property cards. There's a missing part about checking those property cards. There's no part about sanctions when we determine a disproportionate property. There is no part missing that will speed up this whole process and ensure that in our judicial bodies it was the courts or the state's attorneys who do the best. And why am I talking about the best people right now? I am speaking because in Croatia more and more it becomes questionable how good and capable people are working in the judicial system. Some may because of this statement, as I have formulated it and called it and said that it is not questionable that incompetent people work there at all, but I still have the hope that in the judicial system there is still sufficient number of those who can express and raise that system if they are allowed to do their job normally. In practice, however, this is not often the case, and I'm going to give you this on just one very specific example that we see today. Today, as we know, the arrested member of the HDZ presidency is Mrs. Gabriela Žalac. But what matters in this whole case is that she was not arrested for the actions and orders of Croatian bodies, no. She was arrested for the actions of the European Union body. Yes, we are a member of the European Union and someone will say so are our bodies. But respected colleagues and colleagues, about a month ago, the USKOK found that everything was fine and that there was no need for further operations and stopped the reconnaissance. But the European Public Prosecutor's Office, which was founded less than six months ago because this is about the injury of European funds, has continued to work on the case, and that is why today we have the beginning of the resolution of the case, a case that is very bad for Croatia because it is not just about the former minister and member of the HDZ presidency, but it is about the man who heads the SAFU. And all of this raises questions about how this Agency will continue its work and how will Croatia withdraw funds from European funds during the period ahead? I will remind the Minister a few days ago and I spoke to him and pointed out that they have reduced 200 million kuna in the budget to co-finance the withdrawal of funds from European funds, which we de facto for 2021 admitted capitulation because co-financing in withdrawal results in an even greater reduction in the funds that have been withdrawn, and today we have a procedure against the head of the SAFU, and it will take about a ho-ho time for this institution to continue its work normally. Only by the way, the same HDZ member. So we here have to ask how many more cases are there like that Mrs. Gristle in which USKOK said everything's okay and it's stopped the reconnaissance, but it's not about the procedures of the European Public Prosecutor's Office and OLAF's work? I think it's a legitimate question and I think it's very open to this to talk freely about all those affairs that ended without a conversation, and in the media as in Mrs. Zalac's case, all the relevant facts have been published. By reading the articles published in Telegram in 2019, the State's Attorney's Office could have brought this process to an end. No, I'll remind you, Hopkok said everything was okay and he stopped the reconnaissance. After 6 years of HDZ's rule of law, the USKOK, which was at one point, is a job of only one lever in devastation of the quality of institutions that should protect the rights and interests of the Republic of Croatia, the rights and interests of Croatian citizens and lead the fight against crime and corruption. And as the first euthanized tax BOOK so that the listeners of the regime can guard their wealth, today it happens with that great real BOOK and that's our defeat. And when I say ours, I mean the defeat of this country for which it is guilty is known who. This Law, however technical and as benign as it is, that by accepting it, we will not do any harm the same as that Law on Courts is simply not enough for this situation that I'm talking about to fix. And what is going to happen is that because of the anti-corruption and criminality attitudes of the Ministry of Justice, the situation will eventually be worse and worse and we will come to the conclusion that an organised fight against corruption and criminality in Croatia will only be led where the warrant, where support, comes from the European Union, from abroad. Because in the part where the Croatian institutions are in charge, it's actually becoming simply one idea that only so much is shown and the public is clouding their eyes to do something. And this is the relationship of this government, HDZ authorities to independent institutions, to the State's Attorney's office, to the courts, to the Committee for Decision on a conflict of interest, etc. Euthanasia, the death and maintenance of the status quo in which they are, and you know who are swimming perfectly, because they're used to it, because they're better at it than anyone else. Dear colleagues and colleagues, this package of four laws we are discussing today, I am detaching the Law on Attorneyship because it is something else, but this package of four laws we are discussing today, please, I appeal to you that no one dares call it reform, mini reform or anything like that. This isn't it. These are simply techniques that will improve the functioning of the system in a small, small segment, but for the overall picture and for all that is in Croatia when it comes to changing the judiciary will not do anything. To say that what's in front of us isn't enough is as mild as I can be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u71019	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Krunoslav Katičić, will now speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u71020	The Honorable Vice-President of the Assembly, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues, so here's the opening on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, I'll say that our club will support the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on State Attorney's Office, and I'll say briefly why. I would like to point out, in this, that these proposed changes are significantly improving the work of the state's attorneys throughout the Republic of Croatia. In order to achieve the necessary changes, it is necessary to coordinate legislative activity with the real situation on the ground, and I think that these small reform parts will significantly improve the work in that segment of state lawyers. Also for now listening carefully to this debate I haven't noticed but one part of the segment is quite important. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This is an important contribution to significant operationalisation and better organisation of exactly what is being talked about all the time, and to better control mechanisms of the competent authority, which is a judicial inspection can be adapted to better work by the general public. As has already been told several times by these amendments, of course, it is about one change which is based among other things and the legal understanding of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. Of course, it's about how the main state attorney is appointed to the Republic of Croatia. Then the way in which security checks are carried out, which I also think about for all state attorneys, is important in the paper because it is significantly improved and more clearly defined and that part. It also improves the system of obligations of professional training, but it also regulates certain issues relating to civil servants who are also one of the important segments as support to the state's attorneys themselves, because without significant support and let's say the other echelon of officials working in the state's attorneys their overall work can always be seen through the conduct of these. Among other things, one of the major elections has been given again is the election process of the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia because it specifies the procedure for the appointment of the main state attorney of the Republic of Croatia. It is proposed that the powers, to transfer that authority to the National Attorney's Council and that they only proceed with similar and complete applications further, continue the procedure in accordance with, of course, a public call initiated for the purposes of the appointment of the attorney general. It is also prescribed that the public invitation may be annulled from 8, within 8 days of the publication of a new public call, or if the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes no candidate to be the attorney general within 15 days of receipt of the opinion. Also, I have already mentioned the provisions concerning periodic security changes. In public, this part is quite clearly considered and will give one additional confirmation that there can be trust in the work of the judiciary, and among other things, since the state attorney's office is part of the judicial system of the Republic of Croatia that this new introduction will be able to improve public perception of the situation in the judiciary. The security change itself was signed by the Law on the State Attorney's Board and it, as already stated, refers to all state attorneys, to their deputies, and every 5 years from the date of entry into office, they must apply for the renewal of the security check carried out, which is then delivered by the competent Justice Department to the competent Security Intelligence Service. It is also necessary to mention this section relating to the professional training and training of state attorneys, which will also be regulated through the Rules of Procedure of the competent minister. It will now be an obligation at least once a year to have professional training. This is important because we are witnessing that in judicial, legal traffic a brand-new form of various phenomena appear and that an adequate way to respond to this is necessary that we have professional training in a let's say some very specialized knowledge that probably by working in the state's attorney's office can hardly have some... without further professional training. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] There is also the need for a special expert examination for civil servants, which is also a very important shift. The obligation to introduce a Regulation on the internal work of state lawyers, which will be clearly defined by the Ministry of Justice and Administration, is also adopted. It also touched some of the material rights of all the workers in the state's attorney's office, which I think will also contribute significantly to better work by the state's attorneys. I would also like to touch myself a little bit since it is a united debate and a Law on Amendments in State-run Attorney-General Areas. In short, I would simply say that this proposal also re-coordinates legislative solutions with the real situation on the ground. I think that the proposed changes and additions are quite clearly recognized by the real state and need for how to separate or connect and give some other powers to the territory of the Republic of Croatia. This is best seen with this separation being mentioned, and it is done by the State's Attorney's Office in the County State's Attorney's Office in Zagreb, which is known as one of the largest county state attorneys in the Republic of Croatia. Finally, I would like to remind you, on behalf of the HDZ Club, to support the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on State Attorneys, as well as amendments to the Law on Areas and Headquarterss of State Lawyers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u71021	And now, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS, the honourable representative Marijana Puljak will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u71022	I thank the chairman. So here's symbolically on the day we discuss in the assembly a series of legal amendments to the Law on Courts, the State's Attorney's Office and the Attorney's Office, so here's another corruption affair of the party in power, a party convicted of corruption. She said colleague Mrak-Taritash that we live in interesting times, so we live at a time when the anti-corruption strategy is written by a party convicted of corruption, the Law on Justice and Amendments in those laws is proposed by the same party, and today the party's presidency is in power, so the former minister, the current state officials, are arrested here by order of not our state attorney but by the order of the European Public Prosecutor. So there is no greater evidence once again that Sanader's HDZ is the same as Plenkovic's HDZ, or only as different as that of Sanader's HDZ, with Croatian money, and Plenkovic's friends are sifting with Croatian and European money, there's progress. So the amendments to these four laws are certainly not any reform or at least not the reform of the judiciary that we need to restore people's trust in institutions. We said whether we are at the bottom of Europe at the confidence and perception of our citizens about whether we have an independent judiciary and what we need to restore trust not only of the citizens but also of the investors we often call, and no investor will come here to invest their money in a country where the judiciary is not independent. Here I'm going to mention a few things that, here's no one's mentioned yet, and it should have been kept in mind. First, the SOA, managed by the executive authority, so the SOA director is obedient, providing his services by law first and foremost to the president of the state and government. The introduction of security checks is trying to prove to the public as a measure to control corruption in the judiciary, and in fact it will not already be given to the executive authority a tool to hold the judiciary by the throat or by the hand. The system of justice control was to be established through the State Attorney's Council. This is today a poorly designed institution that does not have the capacity to perform or those basic tasks listed in the law as checking state attorney property cards. Without strengthening this council in a way that this body is professionalised because today members do not perform that function professionally in full-time and that without a council membership, two parliamentary deputies sitting there will not be achieved anything useful for the control of the judiciary, but will be given strong weapons to the executive authority controlling the work of SOA that can be manipulated and blackmailed. Keeping in mind the number of corruption affairs that shake the executive authority's proposals to HDZ authorities are monstrous, harmful and for the independence of the judiciary are extremely devastating. Secondly, if we want an even stronger and more independent DORH, it would be much more useful to approach the amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. According to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the main state attorney is elected for a term of four years. with the possibility of reelection. Experience on the work of current state lawyers has often led to the impression that they are calculating with the opening of certain investigations and the launch of criminal persecution when corruption was concerned by highly-positioned officials. We also remember the situation when HDZ refused to adopt Dinko Cwitan's annual report, which was a kind of pressure on him because of the possibility of losing his mandate. In order to ensure that the chief state attorney is less vulnerable to the whims of the ruling ones, it is better to prescribe that his term lasts 6 or 7 years. without re-election, so that it does not overlap with that term and so that there will be no calculations to ensure the election and the next term. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u71023	We are now going to an individual debate, and will speak first to the respected representative, Michel Jaksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u71024	Thank you very much, thank you, Vice President Reiner. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives, representative of the ministry, allow me only with a brief few sentences and on this subject. I have to say that we've been having a bit of fun on the resolution boards, maybe we should have put all these four points together in one debate, so some things will unfortunately happen again. As a member of the SDP Club, I must say that we will support this law and those amendments that come with the Law on State Attorneyship, since we believe that, no matter how much reform at the end of the day, it is not enough to change how much it should be in our judicial system, it is better to change at least a little bit than not to change anything at all. But what I'm going to do again is that this together isn't enough reform, it's not enough to start restoring trust in institutions that should take care of order, morality, honesty in our country because what's happening today with a former minister, with one of the principals of a very important agency, and also with OLAF and European interventions, the European Public Prosecutor's Office is saying that obviously there's a lot of things that should not work out as well today and that some things are unfortunately going too easily under the radar. So we think that we need a much stronger turn, and when we talk about the state's attorney's office through security controls and through an examination of the origin of the property and through a clear and institutional final independence of the state's attorney's office because we've had all kinds of cases in the state's attorney's office, so let's remember ourselves that we've had the opportunity to watch the press of the then head of DORH together with the current and current prime minister. It is certainly not something that restores confidence in the Croatian judicial system. Also, if we put together a vessel of DORH and the courts themselves, we can't expect that trust to be restored if we have arrests with cameras, with photo reporters, with little ones not living stream-ing here arrests, and then it stretches out in 5, 10, 15 years old, ends up in no way, or we get arrested by someone who runs across the border. All this doesn't contribute to anything good, and it's not what we should discuss today and see how to do better. By adding one more thing that may not necessarily be related to the debate on amendments to the laws we are talking about today, which is that we should also once as a state and as a society and as parliamentary advocates make a decision about what we want with our police and state-level legal system because we have to admit that these people work in difficult conditions when we talk about the technology they have at their disposal, not to mention how underpaid they are in relation to responsibility and all that they should solve for the benefit of this country. Without a stronger turn, and in that part, it is difficult to expect to raise the efficiency of the state's attorney's office itself, it is difficult to expect that the independence of the state's attorney's office will be strengthened, and not to say that it is unlikely that with the passing years that we will be able to expect that quality people will even want to apply to work and come to work in the state's attorney's office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u71025	Now, finally, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Marija Jelkovac, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u71026	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues, here I will try briefly in front of the HDZ Club to present finally on these two amendments and additions to the Law on the State's Attorney's Office and on the seats that are actually being added to the previous two points that we have had regarding the amendment and addition of the Law on Courts, on courts and also on amendments to the area of courts. What has already been practically said in all the exhibitions are these most important amendments to these amendments and amendments to the laws, which are related to the appointment of the attorney general, and then the amendments related to the implementation of the security checks procedure for state attorneys, for the completion of state attorneys. The introduction of a special expert examination for state attorneys and what should be said that these proposed changes will certainly contribute to the quality of the work of the state's attorneys and it is certainly not good to speak here in a political way about these proposals of the law that it all has no meaning at all because in this way we are demeaning all the good that we are introducing into the system. I must also point out that we have introduced some newspapers two years ago, and that certainly every positive amendment, I think that all of what I have stated are positive changes, contributes to the efficiency of the work of the state's attorney's office, and thus also to the judiciary. Here, a colleague named Grbin stated that the lack of this proposal was not said anything about the introduction of property cards, property cards for state attorneys were introduced by the previous law, and simply the regulation passed by the state's attorney's office prescribed itself the procedure and content of property cards for state attorneys. So I don't think there's any need to add anything special about this law and that everything has been said and introduced before. What is well related to the appointment of the Attorney General that some of the remarks we have seen and in the previous procedure of the appointment of the Attorney General and that the State's Attorney General has been enabled by this proposal now to verify in the future all those applications that come after a public call and that only those which are complete and timely are referred to further in the procedure, which has not been the case so far, and thus certainly made a certain shift in the quality of that procedure, and it is also given the authority to appoint any of the proposed candidates within 15 days of the adoption of the opinion that the State Attorney General has made within 8 days of the expiry of that deadline to re-open a new public call. What is important in introducing new, new means of carrying out security checks for deputy state attorneys is that they will be conducted in the future every 5 years. We think it's a good thing that there's one such continuous verification of the state's attorneys and that it will certainly contribute to their quality of work and therefore to their overall behaviour, because we know that the state's lawyer's call is, in fact, a life call that obliges these people to keep an eye on their behavior in some kind of civil life, and not just in those eight hours of working time. As regards professional training, of course, it is good to oblige all officials in that system to one compulsory professional training that must be at least once a year, and as regards the introduction of a special expert examination for officials, it is, in fact, the result of the changes that we have brought to the national expert examination and result in. So from what I've been told, it's important that everything that's in the paper contributes to the quality of the work of the state's attorney's office. Thank you very much. [[Intruder: Thank you]] The club will support both laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u71027	Now, finally, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Sovereigns, the honourable representative of Željko Sačić will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u71028	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, dear secretary, colleagues and colleagues, the Croatian public. By reading this proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the State's Attorney's Office, it is certain that we can agree that these provisions and proposals are also a solution to being a step towards a better, better, more professional and independent work of the State's Attorney's Office, but surely there remains a permanent question of what to do to ensure that our overall work of the State's Attorney's Office is in the full capacity to protect the constitutional values of the Republic of Croatia. Because it's not enough to just hand them the best legal tools, anyway, and keep this watch over their education, provide them with education. However, we now see, among other things, in one professional body, a rather balanced addition to the strict state councils of attorneys, that this one is as sure as it is to say the unreported life of these state attorneys and deputies and all that is right, but that's not enough if we haven't provided them with material technical conditions for their work, if we haven't provided them with all that to bring to life certain safety, existential, certain financial security, and that there are no cars, that they don't have enough pay, that they are not enough, that they are not covered by the reports of state attorneys in recent years, that they are all ending with the cry of the state's attorney about not having a roof over their heads, that they don't have enough pay, that they are not enough, that they are not enough, that they're going to be able to pay them, that some of the Crucial departments that they haven't been filled with the law that we't all of law, and therefore, that they are finally looking at least. So it seems to me like a man who has done something in his own time in this area of crime control that practically these masters of criminal persecution in Croatia, the state's attorneys that they are too little first, the second that they are practically because of this or the human deficit or for certain other reasons narrow throats in the process of the most severe cases of crime that we have been exposed to over the past years. It is amazing that we are just witnessing this and that nothing is happening qualityly or very slowly qualitatively to open the door by reputation to other countries. This is indeed a very big slap that we have the opportunity today to have the European prosecutor's office running a year ago we voted this law that allows us, to approach, to give her the authority and today he's doing these jobs, and our state lawyers haven't noticed it. Our journalism whether research or any other sources different under the Criminal Procedure Act are relevant to triggering the state-repressive this research structure. But here we are, if someone by the hand or I don't know if the victim himself does not go through this procedure rarely, and the dark number of crime is in these most complex forms of organised crime and corruption. There's got to be a state's attorney's initiative. I think it's not enough and that we should do everything we can to make them do their job in accordance with the constitution and the law, regardless of what someone in the executive authority or political authority will restrict, order, contribute, in any case support to the state's attorney and police in the fight against crime.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u71029	Thank you very much. Now we're going to conclude a debate on this point, and we're going to vote on it when we get the conditions, and we will move to the next point, which is: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Attorneyship, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. Number 205. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia under Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172, 204 and 206. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In accordance with Article 206. The Rules of Procedure adopted on the occasion of the establishment of the agenda a proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal by an urgent procedure. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yes, a respected State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice and Administration, Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u71128	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear MPs and MPs, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Attorneyship harmonizes the Croatian legal system with the EU legal system. The draft Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Attorneyship has been joined primarily as I have said in order to comply with the acquis, and also after the European Commission sent certain objections to Croatia for failure to respect the EU's basic operating contract, which is the liberalisation of the service market. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its Treaty on the Functioning of the EU. The proposal addresses the solutions for all identified infringements which are removed through amendments to the Law on Lawyership while the two remaining infringements will be resolved by sublegal acts in the jurisdiction of the Croatian Bar. So in one part we transplant EU law, in the other part we remove observed injuries and objections received by the Republic of Croatia. The current Law on Attorneyship should be amended in order to facilitate the exercise of attorneyship by Croatian lawyers in the Republic of Croatia, as well as in EU Member States, and to make it easier for lawyers from EU Member States to practice law in the Republic of Croatia. Amendments and additions to the Law on Lawyership will facilitate the effective achievement of the freedom to provide legal services to lawyers from EU member states in the Republic of Croatia as well as to lawyers from the Republic of Croatia. The Law amending and supplementing the Law on Attorneyship will allow the establishment of branches of law firms from EU Member States in the Republic of Croatia through the provision of legal services which include consulting services on the law of the Republic of Croatia. The restriction of the possibility of only one office and the inability to become the founder of another law firm is lifted. The possibility of establishing a working relationship of a lawyer with another lawyer who independently carries out his or her activities as an employer and a joint lawyer's office, and the excessive requirements for enrolment in the register of foreign lawyers and the taking of certain actions of freedom of provision of services within the framework of the provision of a lawyer's service shall be introduced. All other restrictions that existed in the current legal rules are also lifted. The restriction is also lifted, if the lawyer could not perform his duty, his duty if he did not perform it for 6 months on, so he comes under certain sanctions. We had a situation with Covid-19 when it wasn't possible. Certain provisions on the use of a qualified electronic signature in the business of a lawyer are also harmonised to participate in electronic communications and shall be implemented in accordance with the procedural rules and in the text of the entire Law on Attorneyship shall be subject to the terminology of Article 27. The Constitution of the Likewise, lawyers from EU countries will need to pass a test that is not a judicial exam but a similar exam, only with certain restrictions. Knowledge check in Croatia first for lawyers from EU Member States in order to be able to perform a legal duty in the Republic of Croatia. Likewise, on the principle of reciprocity and our lawyers who are in need and able to carry out their legal, legal duties in EU Member States will have to go through similar procedures as lawyers from EU member states who want to do so in the Republic of Croatia. In the last part of this proposal, amendments and additions to the Law on Attorneyship, nomotechnical matters which have proved to be deficiencies in the existing regulation are in line. Finally, to remember the amendments to the Committee on Law, the Ministry of Justice and the Administration shall adopt here an amendment on Article 15, on Article 17, Article 23, Article 24. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u71129	Thank you, we have two replicas. The first one's a respected volunteer, Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u71130	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State when we talk about the proposed amendments to this law, a member of a public law firm in the Republic of Croatia could be a foreign law firm that has no insurance policy of any responsibility for damages, nor an obligation to meet its entire assets that it doesn't even have, so it doesn't have to exist at all. In this case, the end-owners, therefore, are members of such a public company in a privileged position compared to those members who personally, therefore as natural persons, so lawyers, correspond to their entire assets. How do you avoid situations like this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u71131	Dear Secretary of State Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u71132	So even today, in the debate, we'll see what can change when this is the final text of the law. We were obliged to accept EU law, so this has been done by experts for a long time than it should have been to propose these changes. We know that there are sensitive issues, unfortunately in one part we have adopted a common European law which differs from the rights of the Republic of Croatia. Also, our obligation was to transplant these directives, we'll see in this section, there are still some misunderstandings about our bar, so until we vote we'll see what we can do.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u71133	Dear Representative Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u71134	Thank you, Vice President. Well, here's the secretary of state. We've already had a debate on this subject today, but there's one more time that it's not a waste. So I would ask for clarification and a guarantee when this law comes into force because it is obvious that because of the EU directive, it will not put our law firms in a more unfavourable position based on foreign companies, because since when, I will do it later and in the debate, because when they come to our area they still have a better order of justice than we do.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u71135	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u71136	Thank you very much, Vice President. Now is the better and more orderly judiciary somewhere outside Croatia in other EU member states now leaving it as your personal position. As regards the principle of reciprocity, it was one of the conditions, so there are certain differences that are present in terms of differences in rights, we have made sure that to the greatest extent that we accept what is common law and what is our obligation as a Republic of Croatia so as not to come under certain sanctions of the European Commission. There were numerous resistances, I'm not saying that they were not justified, but we took care of everything to cover as much as possible for our lawyers to have the same right... EU Member States. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] What could possibly prove to be a dispute we will try to resolve in the process of not violating EU law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u71137	Thank you very much. I'm opening the debate now, so the first one on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club will speak to the esteemed representative, Ruzica Vukovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u71138	Thank you, my dear. Therefore, this bill is referred to by the Proposer in an emergency procedure. I'll explain the article. 206. The Rules of Procedure of the HS say that the laws that we comply with Union documents are adopted by an urgent procedure. But please, let's take a closer look at the documents that we're harmonising with and from what time they date. By Directive 98/5 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 1998. on facilitating the continuing exercise of the law in a Member State other than the one in which the qualification has been acquired. Then Directive 2006/123 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 December 2006. on services on the internal market. Directive 2005/36 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 7 September 2005 on the recognition of professional qualifications as amended by Directive 2013/55 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 November 2013 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Directive 2015/849 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 May 2015 on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering or terrorist financing, and amending Regulation (EC) No This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Following the Council Directive 2013/25 of 13 May 2013, the Council Directive of 22 March 1977 on facilitating the effective exercise of the freedom to provide legal services. Perhaps that's why we are so chaotic and so many light years behind the standards of other EU members when today, by emergency procedure, we are harmonising regulations no more or less in the Ministry of Justice with the EU's 1977 or 1998 regulations. This law also implements the measures of the first action plan for the liberalisation of the market for services adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia since 31 October 2019 and the action plan for the liberalisation of the market for services adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 29 April 2021. How many years are these conclusions? We will agree that the current Law on Attorney's Office needs to be amended in order to facilitate the exercise of law to Croatian lawyers in the Republic of Croatia and EU Member States, and to make it easier for lawyers from EU Member States to practice law in the Republic of Croatia. The amendments and additions to this law will facilitate the effective achievement of the freedom to provide legal services to lawyers from EU Member States in the Republic of Croatia, as well as to lawyers from the Republic of Croatia. We should've gotten along, and we should've made that happen before. My second surprise refers to the duration of the e-consultation procedure, the whole 15 days on such an important topic. If it wasn't for the Justice Department, I might not be so surprised, here. Last week we talked about the Law on the right to access information and the Law on the Assessment of the Impact of Regulations where the process of e-consultation was mentioned several times. Why are representatives of the ruling fear of commenting to the public, so they do everything to avoid having to answer questions or to recapture their proposals? The lawyership is undoubtedly a complex, important and regulated activity, but in economic terms it is clearly being carried out on the market. The EU court has set a clear rule at the end of the 1990s, according to relevant European rules, lawyers are entrepreneurs and are not excluded from the rules relating to freedom of competition in the common European market. Equally, the work of foreign lawyers is not news in Croatia. They are legally allowed to open an office or in partnership with domestic offices. But the question arises why were there no larger arrivals? It is obvious that some types of items are not financially attractive enough for foreigners to enter a race here for such matters, especially when it comes to certain types of disputes. They generally do not know enough Croatian law and court practice. It is assumed that clients will also prefer our lawyers if it is not about disputes with elements of abroad or those of great value. It should be understood that foreign lawyers should know if they want to work in Croatia. I believe that most will agree that one of the concrete reasons why there are currently few fewer foreigners than in other transition states is that there are no large investments in Croatia and until they are believed that foreign lawyers will not even come here. Whether domestic law offices will remain in the current ownership structure or join larger foreign law firms will ultimately depend on their ability to provide competitive services on the market and their assessment of the benefits and damages of association with foreign partners. These amendments provide for the possibility that branches of law firms from EU Member States in the Republic of Croatia provide legal services that include consulting services on the law of the Republic of Croatia. The restriction of the possibility of setting up only one office and the inability of a law firm to be the founder of another law firm is lifted. The possibility of establishing a working relationship with a lawyer is introduced, with another lawyer acting independently as an employer and a joint lawyer's office. Excessive requests shall be lifted when enroled in the register of foreign lawyers and the basis for the termination of a lawyer's lawyer's office for more than 6 months without justifiable reason shall be suspended and the basis for which Croatian lawyers with a business establishment in another EU Member State shall cease the right to carry out a lawyer's service in the event of entry into a working relationship outside the lawyer's office. The law also regulates the way of verifying knowledge in Croatian law for lawyers from EU Member States and allows them to establish law firms and joint law offices with lawyers from the Republic of Croatia and lawyers from another EU Member State. When we talk about the Croatian bar that has been established and established as such an organisation that determines mandatory membership, so the organisation with mandatory membership in the chamber of all who wish to deal with the attorney's and legal obligation to pay the membership fee of all who deal with the attorney's office is that, in order to prevent the abuse of such a monopolies position, it is necessary to limit the decision-making of the chamber itself to the harm of those persons who wish to deal with the attorney's office and to harm their forced members. This should also be the subject of an amendment to this law if we want to build a fairer and more transparent system. The question arises whether the proposed amendments and additions of the Law on Attorneyship can be ensured in the first place by the real and effective implementation of Directive 2006/123 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 December 2006 on services in the internal market or the liberalisation of the provision of legal services provided for by the Government of the Republic of Croatia's action plans of 2019 and '21. Because there is no mechanism to monitor the legality of work and decision-making by the Croatian Bar of Law except the long-term and therefore ineffective judicial protection against administrative courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u71139	The next club of representatives will be the Croatian sovereigns, Croatia's respected representative Zekanovic will speak, is gone, is losing his right to speak, and will then speak on behalf of the HDZ Club of Representatives, the respected representative Damir Habian. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u71140	Thank you very much, Vice President. The Honorable Secretary of State, secretary, respected colleagues and colleagues, today is actually the day when we discuss the whole package let's call them so judicial laws in the finale here and the proposal of the Law on Amendments to the Law on Attorneyship. According to relevant data in the Republic of Croatia, there are slightly less than 5,000 lawyers and about 1600 lawyers, so someone can be made aware of the extent to which this law is within the scope of the address to which it refers. However, any amendments and additions to the Law on Attorneyship are indirectly poured over to all those seeking the services of lawyers and law firms, and in the Republic of Croatia there is a lot of respect for each citizen for life for sure legal advice or legal assistance. In view of these changes and additions to this law, many have a greater and wider impact than it may seem to be on the first one. In 1994, the Law on Attorneyship was subsequently amended and amended on several occasions, and the amendments and additions ahead of us are the result of the transposition or implementation of several European Parliament and Council directives, or in other words, of harming the harmonisation of national law with the acquis of the EU. It should be pointed out that this harmonisation is carried out in accordance with the reasoned opinion of the European Commission referred to by the Republic of Croatia in accordance with Article 258. Treaty on the Functioning of the EU. Namely, the reasoned opinion of the European Commission is one of the stages within the official procedure carried out when determining the application of EU law by Member States. The amendments and additions to this law also implement the measures of the first Action Plan for the liberalisation of the market for services from 31 October 2019 and the Action Plan for the liberalisation of the market for services adopted by the government on 29 April 2021. In particular, the liberalisation of the service market is part of a regulatory reform of the economy which is carried out with the aim of encouraging easier access to entrepreneurship and the internal market and increasing competitiveness in a range of activities and professions. This ensures the possibility of increasing productivity and innovation of the economy, competitive price formation and higher quality of services. Before the first market liberalisation action plan mentioned, as many as 6 measures were related to the justice ministry sector, and these are now covered by these proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Lawyership. With 250 measures implemented so far in 50 activities and professions by the end of the first quarter of 2021, the government of the Republic of Croatia continues to implement this reform. In other words, this new Action Plan for the liberalisation of the service market brings new 18 measures, 16 of which are foreseen for implementation during 2021 and '22 respectively. the year, and two measures during 2023. Among other things, some of these measures also apply to lawyers who are the subject of this law. In view of all of the existing legislation, it is necessary to amend it to transpose the Directives mentioned, as well as to implement the Action Plan for the liberalisation of the service market. The papers provided for these amendments and additions should highlight an amendment that will make it easier for Croatian lawyers in the Republic of Croatia and in EU Member States, and allow lawyers from EU Member States to carry out their lawyers in the Republic of Croatia. It will thus facilitate the effectiveness of achieving the freedom to provide legal services to lawyers from EU Member States in the Republic of Croatia, as well as to lawyers from the Republic of Croatia. On this occasion, he would refer to the amendment of the provisions of Article 1(1) of the Treaty. 36. Law of attorneyship. For the purposes of this Article, the entry and the evidence necessary for the registration of an EU Member State’s lawyer in the register of foreign lawyers who are allowed to perform a lawyer’s service in the Republic of Croatia shall be prescribed. It is important to note that the Croatian Bar is authorised to establish a programme, procedure, and the way in which the examinations are carried out from the knowledge of the legal order of the Republic of Croatia for each applicant for enrolment in the directory of foreign lawyers, taking into account all the knowledge, skills and competences acquired by a lawyer from another EU Member State in that or another EU Member State. The Croatian Bar of Lawyers will also lay down a rule on the establishment of programmes, procedures and methods of carrying out examinations from the knowledge of the legal order of the Republic of Croatia. In this respect, the Croatian Bar of Law will have the possibility to regulate in detail the segment relating to the overall process of determining the knowledge of the Croatian legal order, including the knowledge of Croatian language in the part needed to carry out the profession in the Republic of Croatia, and all in accordance with the provisions of Article. 53. Directive 2005/36 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the recognition of professional qualifications which are also properly implemented or transposed by these proposed amendments and amendments to the laws. In relation to the provision of Article 1(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 36.b. amending and supplementing the Law on Attorneyship should be highlighted as provided for in Article 2 of Regulation (EU) No 1305/2013. 1st century 2. Directive No. 98-5 of the European Parliament and the Council on facilitating the continued exercise of a lawyer’s activity in a Member State other than that where a qualification has been obtained, it shall, if the receiving State, so that it is the State where the lawyer is engaged, allow its lawyers to choose between several forms of joint exercise, and make the same forms available to lawyers who have acquired the right to use the lawyer in their home Member State. In other words, each Member State must prescribe a way to exercise that right, which is what the Republic of Croatia is doing in a way that is now prescribed by the proposal. 36.b. Law amending and supplementing the Law on Attorneyship. In relation to other amendments and additions, it would refer to the amendment of the existing article. 56. Law of attorneyship. In particular, the article in question is amended in such a way as to abolish the restriction of the termination of the right of attorneyship to a lawyer who, for more than 6 months, does not exercise his or her right to exercise his or her right to exercise his or her right to an attorney for death for a period of more than 6 months without a reasonable reason. Also behind the article. The 54th century 2 adds a new chapter 3 which prescribes that law enforcement may also rest in other cases in which a lawyer, because of more force, extraordinary events or other justifiable reasons, is not able to perform a lawyer's service for a longer period of time. Namely, following the catastrophic earthquakes in the City of Zagreb, and Sisak-Moslavina, Krapina-Zagorje and Karlova County, the need for the provision in question to be changed in view of the fact that individual lawyers are not able to carry out the legal services after therefore catastrophic earthquakes in that area, which have led to damage to the law offices and the subsequent inability to carry out the legal activity. In addition to all the advances mentioned in these amendments and additions, the obligation of a lawyer to perform continuous professional training according to the rules and programme established by the Croatian bar of attorneys shall be laid down. It also submits, in substance, the need for permanent education and training of judges and judicial officials, as prescribed in the recently adopted strategy in this high home on preventing corruption for the period of '21. Until 2030. Furthermore, these amendments and additions, as well as the provisions of Art. The 79th age of disciplinary persecution and enforcement of disciplinary measures is aligned with relevant criminal legislation. Finally, the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on the Law of Law of the Republic of Croatia fulfil its obligation to bring national legislation into line with the acquis of the EU. In its reasoned opinion, the European Commission in Case No. 2017/4067 found that certain provisions of the existing Law on Attorneyship are contrary to the European acquis, i.e. Directives 98/5 and 2006/123 of the European Parliament and of the Council, and in view of the proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Attorneyship by emergency procedure. In this regard, the Rules of Procedure of the HS provide for the adoption of an emergency procedure law in order to bring the Law on Attorneyship with the legal acquis of the EU as quickly as possible. In view of all of the above, the HDZ Representatives' Club will support this proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Attorneyship by emergency procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u71141	Now, on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Michel Jaksic, will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u71142	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleague Salapic, colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs. So here we have also come to the final point of today's debate on amendments to the Law on Courts, State Attorney's Office and Attorney's Office and what I can say on behalf of the SDP Club, we will support these amendments to the Law on Attorneyship as such. First of all, because we are in line with all those directives that we have taken to implement when we enter the EU, but we are also in a position to open up on the one hand a space for liberalisation on the market for legal services in the Republic of Croatia, but it is certain that we are also making it significantly easier for our lawyers and lawyers to work their work and their activities in our surrounding European countries. It is certain that this is one of the laws that we can look at closely at the legal profession and in the prices itself and in the practices itself and in the quality of the service itself, and it is definitely one of the laws that we can look at closely along with the legal profession, but when everything is added and taken away, it will certainly bring a lot of good to our fellow citizens and citizens, so from this aspect we think that this law should be supported and simply there is not much more to add and take away, except that we hope that we will not only change and adapt to European directives through certain laws but we will also, thanks to such changes as this Law on Law of Law expects us to contribute much more in our judiciary to adapt to everything that is European gain and to work on more fields as the EU does, but also as the EU expects us to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u71143	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the Social Democrats' Club, a respected representative, Romana Nikolic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u71144	Thank you, Vice President. Well, here's what I'm going to do. I'm going to take a quick look at this final bill of law. Well, after we joined the EU, we opened the door to the European labour market. Foreign Member States also have open access to the Croatian labour market. In this way, the Law on Lawyership allowed the liberalisation of the legal services market in the Republic of Croatia. The draft law provides for a way to carry out attorneyship by prescribing that a lawyer can also establish a working relationship with a lawyer who performs his or her own activities both in a law firm and in a lawyer who performs the attorney's office in a joint law firm. Therefore, restrictions and opportunities for the establishment of only one office are lifted and the possibility of establishing the working relationship of one lawyer with the other lawyer acting independently as an employer and a joint lawyer's office is introduced. This also applies to foreign law firms. Although we have committed ourselves to this by joining the EU, however, it puts our attorneyship in a more unfavourable position than other EU members, and we need to be honest here. We are afraid that there will be the closure of many of those small law offices that will not be able to compete with the stronger ones, and all of us, we should all be in the interest of helping our legal societies, not imposing additional competition on them by law. The Social Democrats Club will therefore submit an amendment to this agenda item. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u71145	Finally, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Krunoslav Katičić, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u71146	Mr. Vice-President of the Assembly, state secretary's colleague once again, and so here's the conclusion after this debate which, practically, has never been, but I think it's important to say on behalf of the HDZ final statement. As you know and mentioned, it is often about changes, changes to bring the Law on Attorneyship with the acquis into line with the EU and all these others that will be. As one let's say witness time from '95. Ever since I started working in law enforcement, I think it's finally time for these things to be incorporated into the existing law. My colleagues believe me, I know very well how they will react. I think it is good for this law to continue to give power to the Croatian bar of law to settle certain statuses with its internal rules. Namely, as the attorney's office is known to be a constitutional category and the attorney's office is considered one of the constituents among other Croatian courts in general as such. It is also widely known that the attorney's office is merely a regulatory activity with almost 120 years of tradition of work. In her work the Croatian bar of attorneys has only regulated many things, there are various publications in the public and believe me it is not necessary that it is true. I am therefore convinced that these amendments and additions of the Law on Attorneyship will also be in line with this tradition, and that both the Croatian judiciary and lawyers will contribute to further development of continental law more precisely as has been the case so far. As counterpart Habiban said, the HDZ Club will support this urgent reading, both readings of the Law on Lawyership. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-11-10-0.u71147	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point. We will vote on it when the conditions are met, so today, for today's work, we have finished today's work, we will continue tomorrow at 9:30 p.m. The first item will be the Final Proposal of the Act on Technical Requirements for Products and Assessment of Consistency, an emergency procedure, first and second reading. I wish you a pleasant rest of the afternoon. Session interrupted at 16,16 hours. The next club of representatives will be the MOST, and the respected representative Marija Selak Rasdic will speak. Here you go.
