ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-22-0.u27177	Good afternoon, everyone. Before we begin the session, we have a proposal to supplement the agenda that has been sent to you by electronic means, it is an article. 227. The Rules of Procedure, which determines firstly to decide on a proposal to adopt an individual law by an urgent procedure. If any of the MPs have any objections to the application of an emergency procedure when it comes to the adoption of the law under point 2 of the proposed amendment, that is, the point of the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the treatment of illegally designed buildings with a final proposal for law, that is, no. 106th of the ones you got by electronic means? It is proposed by the Club of Representatives of the SDP. If there are no objections, there is, there is, there is no, then a proposal for an emergency procedure is deemed to be accepted in accordance with Article. 205. Rules of Procedure. That's all. If there's no objections, it means good. If there are no objections, I consider that the proposal for an emergency procedure for this SDP bill is accepted per Article. 205. Rules of Procedure. How appropriate, how appropriate. The 225th century 4th century. The rules of procedure of the written objections at the remaining points of the proposal for the completion of the agenda have not been established that all the proposed items have been included in the agenda of the 6th session and that would be all. It's the other one. Romana Nikolic, who will be the position of the SDP Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-22-0.u27233	I call upon the government of the Republic of Croatia to wake up from the winter sleep. The decision of the Civil Protection Staff to extend the labour ban continues with the agony of Croatian entrepreneurs and their families. Many entrepreneurs will have to keep the key in the lock until February 1st. Which will be after that date is not yet known. Information on the criteria for the reopening of closed activities or not exist or is not available to the public. Entrepreneurs were already on their knees in December, extending labour ban measures to further debts. Until when? How long will the labour ban take? The situation is unsustainable. Many entrepreneurs have not yet received payment of measures for the November month, how to pay salaries to workers, I ask you gentlemen? And the rent, and the bills, and their pay? What can you do with these 4,000 kunas today? Here's an example of a four-member Slavonic family where only one parent is employed. 1,500 kuna goes to rent an apartment, 1,000 kuna are directed, 500 kuna is a war loan, and how much is left? There's 1,000 kuna left. I'm asking you how do people feed their families with 1,000 kuna a month? What about other life expenses? If it continues with the ban on work, many Croatian entrepreneurs will fail. Who's going to start the economy afterwards? HZZ has the most work to do today. Since the start of the pandemic without a job, more than 26,500 people have been left, since the beginning of this year on HZZ 1,800 newly registered persons. Although your measures to help the economy are in place, they are not enough and cannot guarantee the preservation of jobs. None of your fire-fighting measures you take will have a long-term positive effect if one of the fundamental human rights is also denied, the right to work. By denying your right to work, you are doing damage to Croatian entrepreneurs, their families and the Croatian economy. Although winter is still going on, I invite you to wake up from your winter sleep, give workers the right to work and to live with dignity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-22-0.u27234	Thank you, too. Mr. Marko Milanović Lite will speak in front of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns. He's gone. He's losing his right. And now it's Mr. William Matula's turn to be the Green-Left Block Club's position. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-22-0.u27369	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. This morning, we were too soon and tragically abandoned by the great theatre, film, television actress Mira Furlan. My generation had the happiness and satisfaction of Mira Furlan for the first time to look at the scene of HNK in Zagreb in John Ford's "Woe to Whore" performance, her partner was a great Dragan Despot in the excellent direction of Georgia Para. The two brought fantastic energy and some youth, honesty and what Mira brought in it is with the beauty that the camera later recognized both films and television. However, one amazing precision, clarity of expression, openness, honesty that the audience has greatly rewarded. She played Annabel in a fantastic John Ford piece and I say that's something that was certainly important for our generation. After that, we saw her as "Petrunjela", a partner of Mustafa Nadrevic, who tragically also recently left us in the genius direction of Ivica Kunčević. It was really a fantastic HNK performance ensemble, and Mira Furlan was also brilliant there. Afterwards I say again we were fortunate to have worked with Jiri Menzel in Dubrovnik, Lovrian, “Hamlet” where Mira Furlan played Ophelia directed by Jiri Menzel, “Hamlet” was Lazar Ristovski. What do you say? Fantastic. And of course, all these breakthroughs that happened to necessarily lead her that the directors began to see her exclusively for their roles, it started on the film with "Kiklop" Antun Vrdoljak, then "In the Paradise of Life", Rajko Grlic, "For luck it takes three" also Rajko Grlic, "The Father on the Official Path" Emir Kusturica, after that TV series "The Travel to Vučjak", "The Foreigner" by Eduard Galić. In the late 1980s, she stayed more and worked in Belgrade, and her lifelong partner then a boy, a boy who studies Goran Gajic who studies in Belgrade directs them into this damn wartime moved especially to her, you can think of, such a star, so significant in that moment where you have to clearly and fully define where she says that she hasn't had this feeling of definitely and clearly belonging to which largely and these wars that have arisen here and start from these completely secure feelings of identity and the two of them, of course, that they can't find a place in Belgrade either, the two of them are going to America. Such a talented, brilliant actress certainly works there, but of course more at the theater, she later begins working on television in the series of Babylon. She returned to Zagreb and Croatia at the Ulyssessa Theatre, Radeta Šerbedzija and Lenke Udovici, played "Medej" in HNK in Ivan Zajc in Rijeka during Oliver Frljić's intendentity, she played "Casandra" Christe Wolf directed by Nada Kokotović. I say Mira spoke for herself after all these experiences of war that she no longer belonged. Thank you. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-22-0.u27370	Thank you. We are moving on to Advocacy on behalf of representatives clubs and independent representatives is first on behalf of the Centre and GLASs. Dalia Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-22-0.u27487	Honored Chairman, fellow MPs and MPs So I'm going to try to make one little send-off parallel, we often watch national games when they get lost, very often the whole public gets on their feet, everybody calls the menu, analyzes every one of his guilt, and very often calls for shifts. [[Excuse me, ma'am. Oreshkovic.]] I believe that national games matter to us all who love sports, care about how they play their club, but is it possible that we care more about sports than we care about the state itself? I am saying this because of the failure made by the government in principle with Andrej Plenkovic in response to a huge disaster that struck Sisak-Moslavina County and its reaction after the earthquake itself. So it took our Prime Minister more days to declare disaster than God was meant to create the world, a democratic party should indeed be seriously concerned. And then a lot of other things happened, which is why we should ask ourselves, is the bigger problem when a national game is lost or the fact that we have a Prime Minister who almost lost the entire state and the system that he was supposed to manage in time. I don't hear enough voices asking for his responsibility and even his shift. After the disaster that hit Sisak-Moslavina County, we saw something that really concerns anyone who cares about the rule of law and the rule of law. What happened is that laws that are just for situations like this are being broken, and the practice by which the Government calls for crisis circumstances, extensively interprets laws, and thus tries to hide that very government is clothing them, is a very dangerous practice. Democracy is fragile if self-will gets out of hand and she's afraid to get out of control here. The existing Civil Protection System Act is clear and is in line with EU rules, under the law there had to be a protection body chain before disaster occurred so that the chain could be launched in case of need. That's not what happened. So it's not the law itself, it's the inability of the authorities to respect and act on it. After the aid system failed on the ground, a new national headquarters was established another, the second in line for which there is no foothold in the law itself. And this new headquarters introduced a double command line and thus the problems of system failure were not solved just pushed under the carpet. I will repeat what our prominent and constitutional and other legal experts repeat, the law predicts the existence of one national headquarters, not two, to form another new national headquarters besides the one we have for covid there is no foothold in the law. The national headquarters as well as the county headquarters, as well as the city headquarters, were to be formed before the disaster, or these headquarters were to exist permanently and activated in case of need. We have testified that neither the state, nor the county, nor the cities, nor the municipalities had such headquarters formed, but they formed only after the great disaster and trouble had arisen. It speaks of the state of security of our citizens, and security is a word that rulings often use both in their programmes and in their pamphlets and in their doctoring both opposition to the media. There is simply no security in any sense in the Republic of Croatia, for this is the government headed by Andrej Plenkovic. I'm going to point out just a few things that I find problematic and that have been violated by the Civil Protection System Act. Therefore, international aid can only be requested and accepted on the basis of a previous government decision. From what we had the opportunity to learn from the media, it is not known whether the Government made such formal decisions and when and when there was more transparency in the conduct of other Member States that announced press conferences when they donated their assistance than we had transparency in government decisions to ask or receive any assistance. This speaks of how the government treats its citizens and how it shows respect for its citizens. I'll also point out that it's an art. 73. The Civil Protection System Act stipulates that the Republic of Croatia will establish a special extra-financial civil protection fund under a specific law. For five years, this law has been in force for me all this time about this fund, about the funds that should be available for civil protection I haven't heard or seen a single word. I call on HS to ask itself seriously about these big problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-22-0.u27488	Thank you very much. On my own behalf, I have my condolences for the death of the great actress Mira Furlan, whom I have personally known. In the end, Mr. Nevenko Barbaric will be the position of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-22-0.u27561	I thank the esteemed vice president of HS. My colleagues and colleagues. Just over a month ago, I tried to clarify from this pay phone the complexity of the electoral process in Mostar City, the complexity of international relations, the inconsistency of the international community when it comes to this city, but also about the importance of Mostar for the Croatian people in BiH. Unfortunately, in most parts, I was right to testify on the day of the election and everything behind the elections directed by the Central Election Commission with the silence of the international community, with uncertainty about the formation of authorities and the election of legitimate representatives of the city government. After two missed election cycles recently held by the City of Mostar, the Mostars in the entire environment promised prosperity, development, solving numerous problems, co-existence, tolerance, unfortunately current relations and in this post election time threatened with blockades, disputes over everything and everything, threatened to raise national tensions, collapse of trust, stagnation. And how harmful these relationships can be for the development of one environment, for all the progress and for meeting the needs of citizens or for the overall quality of life I will cite for example the construction of the HNK in Mostar. So, by saying that culture guards, but also develops the identity of a nation government then HRHB is in September of '94. set up the HNK as the first professional theatre for the Croatian people in BiH. After Dayton's founding rights is taken over by the Croatian Community of Herceg-Bosnia, which transfers those rights at a later stage to the Herzegovina-Neretva County and the City of Mostar in proportion to 50:50 which also assumes the obligation to finance. He's working on... city council City Mostar hasn't completed the takeover procedure yet, even though he's outsourced funding. The municipal council of Mostar City was in '95. made a decision on construction, '96. is set as a cornerstone, and interestingly, the first donor was the late first Croatian president. After the procedure, the solution of architect Venceslav Lončaric was approved in 2002. was completed building the first phase of so-called. Small scenes since then have been standing and waiting. 2013 a new study of justification, elaborates, the main implementation project of the City Department for Urbanism and Construction issues a new approval for construction. In line with the project documentation in the building there would be other important cultural and scientific institutions of the Croatian people in BiH as the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts in BiH, the Symphony Orchestra, the Academy of Music Arts, the Academy of Drama and Film Arts, and Matica Hrvatska BiH. A prominent facility for the Croatian people in BiH, financially demanding so far, has been realised around a quarter of the total project, and in function not half of the realised. So, for far greater and financially richer environments, this would be very demanding to realize. Unfortunately, I have to go back to the introduction of this exposure to words of controversy, blockades, politics which further slows down the realization of the construction of this facility. The facility is built in a central city zone for which no detailed plan has been drawn up, so Mostar City Council 1.12.20, neglecting the previous decisions of the same body and city administration, imposes a ban on the construction of new facilities and the development of a detailed plan of the central zone with a period of validity of the decision of two years. All that time, HNK had a valid building permit issued in '96. for which no cancellation procedure has been initiated, but nor has a detailed plan ever been adopted, so the existing planning documentation is valid. The aim of this decision is to stop the construction of HNK, compromise the project regardless of what the Herzegovina-Neretva County and the City of Mostar took over the founding rights to finance the facility, regardless of what in the same city zone under the same conditions the buildings built both the Federation and the Council of Ministers and a whole series of private companies. Anything can, theatre not, or if rightly so, according to the valid permits issued by the relevant institutions can, however. The question arises, who is this project jeopardizing, limiting? Is this not an opportunity to overcome or overcome many social political and cultural differences that Mostar has faced for years? At the same time, the project is an excellent framework for strengthening its own institutional artistic capacities. And finally with great thanks the Office for Croatians and this Government of the Republic of Croatia for its assistance, an application for more active involvement in finding the mode of completion of this truly capital project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-22-0.u27562	Thank you, too. We will continue the session on Wednesday, January 27, at 9:30 p.m. by taking the club stand. Thank you very much, and I'll see you Wednesday. WEEK, WEEK, WEEK, WEEK, WEEK, WEEK, WEEK, WEEK. We're going with today's agenda proposal. Okay, I see there are no subsequent remarks. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Noise Protection, Second Reading, P.Z.E. No. 14. The proposal, which is a second reading, means the provisions relating to the final draft of the law are in order. On the occasion of the debate on this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply, so amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Health and Social Policy. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Mr. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health Mr. Zeljko Plazonić is with us, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-22-0.u29393	Thank you very much. We won't say goodbye again. Therefore, we have before us the final proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Safeguard against Noise. These proposed provisions of the law propose noise protection measures aimed at preventing excessive noise emissions and reducing the existing noise level from being allowed. The protection against noise is mandatory to implement and ensure its implementation by the state administration body, then the JLSs, and legal and natural persons carrying out their registered activities. The legislative proposal complements and amends the provisions of the applicable law relating to the instruments of harmonisation or ensuring the implementation of the EU Regulation as set out in 2019. No. 1010 amending certain provisions of the 2002 Directive on the assessment and management of noise from the environment. The harmonisation of the applicable concepts with the provisions of specific rules governing the issue of an environmental authorisation has been carried out. Furthermore, the procedure for issuing an allocation permit and specific conditions of construction, confirmation of the main project, and building or use of the permits and, under specific law, the sanitary inspectors of the State Inspectorate which determine the conditions or confirm compliance with the conditions of noise protection shall participate. Furthermore, a new definition of the concept of ‘data repositories’ has been introduced. To repeat, the information system is, so the data repository is the information system managed by the European Environment Agency and contains information and information on noise from the environment made available through the National Data Reporting and Exchange Authority. This means that new reporting deadlines for the European Commission with regard to strategic noise maps and action plans are being rationalised and new reporting deadlines are set for the European Commission, as well as for the obligation to provide updated information by electronic means to the competent authority in the European Commission. The provisions of the law also comply with the provisions of the State Inspectorate Act and the provisions of the State Administration System Act. The difference relating to first reading is the nomotechnical amendment of the legal proposal, and the regulation of criminal liability for the person responsible in the legal person, and in accordance with the observations made by the body of the state administration to which the legal proposal was addressed. Following all of this, I propose the adoption of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-22-0.u29394	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State. Would the representatives of the board like to take the floor? Is there a Replica? [[Clip intrusion: Replication, replica]] Okay. I didn't see the lines, nobody told me anything. Okay. [[Blowback from the bench: It writes]] - Mrs. Crescent. Anka Dark-Taritash first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-22-0.u29395	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, Your Honor, Secretary of State. So when it comes to noise, and you are harmonising the regulation with EU directives, and we have nothing to add or subtract. But let's think a little bit more about it. So it's no problem when you plan certain purposes related to the noise problem. The problem we have today, and which if we don't do something, we'll have in the future, and these are your buildings, multi-state buildings, so on. mixed purposes where the ground floor is business purposes, floors are residential purposes and where you know it from your own experience and sanitary inspection very often is a problem so ground floor is intended for what people buy. And if the whole ground floor is bought at a time when we think, then at a time it's not a crown, but outside for hospitality, and there's a big problem. Have you considered, however, that in the planning phase from your point of view, you have certain limitations that can also be set in the planning phase? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-22-0.u29396	Thank you very much. Mr. Plazonic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-22-0.u29397	... I can agree with you on these proposals, however, you know that yourself, is not the subject of this legislative proposal, but it is some other permits that are not even in the domain of the Ministry of Health, but the Ministry of Civil Engineering, and then they have to bring in, you have to coordinate it all together that you intend to buy, build, etc. with those legal provisions. [[Specially enabled.]] I don't think that's the part that saw this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-22-0.u29398	Thank you very much. - Mrs. Crescent. Renata Sablar-Dračevac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-22-0.u29399	I would like to thank the Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Well, here's the law, anyway, it's in the interest of the citizens and the EU directive, but what I'm interested in is about the implementation of this law. Are we going to leave everything to the public, are we going to have to follow public announcements of cards of noise, or will the ministry immediately take over their role and put someone in charge of monitoring outside the ministry? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-22-0.u29400	Thank you, too. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-22-0.u29401	Look, tracking noise, starting permits for something to build in space is part of their local self-government and then regional to the ministry. It is not the Ministry of Health that determines these values that are on the ground other than measurement, measuring certain and creating certain cards of noise but they must again be in spirit with legal regulations. Therefore, we do only on our part to see whether or not we are doing an inspection of the value of noise or the finding of noise on certain territory and everything else is doing in the extreme line if you think it is wrong and the State Inspectorate who has to verify and bring in its... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-22-0.u29402	Thank you. Mr. Ivan Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-22-0.u29403	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, as you mentioned, so here we are not just talking about the Ministry of Health's intelligence because this information system of strategic cards falls, for example, under the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development. Making strategic noise maps is, in a way, a professional basis for making spatial plans, I am interested in your opinion, so that only settlements greater than 100,000 inhabitants are required to work every 5 years, to revise strategic noise maps, I am interested in your opinion whether it is small or much, or do you think that it is some kind of golden environment given the circumstances within the Republic of Croatia and the population of our country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-22-0.u29404	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-22-0.u29405	Well, I don't know how much it would be now, so... The opinion, it's in line with some European standards, not in these standards, that's the first thing and the second thing, clearly, it's got to be me, that five years is exactly one right or I would say an adequate period of time because the construction process didn't have to be so fast that it had to be revised from year to year by year by the state of these cards of noise. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And besides that, we must in some way present it to the European Commission, so if it finds any elements, it can launch certain proceedings against us.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-22-0.u29406	Thank you. Mr. Ivan Kirin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-22-0.u29407	Dear Vice President, Your Honor. Since noise is being debated, there has been a major debate in the media about the noise of LNG terminals. The study found that it is within the levels permitted by law and 80 dB at the border of the terminal or the border of the zone. We know that noise sensitivity is individual and that some people react after a short period of time to damage and others do not react for almost a lifetime. Do you think this is about media over-emphasis and politics?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-22-0.u29408	Thank you, answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-22-0.u29409	Well, now I wouldn't want those qualifications from this place and at this point I want to be, but I'm still a representative of the Ministry of Health and I'm the first person to protect the health of our citizens and the noise is after the pollution of another agent that negatively affects man according to it, noise is not something we can ignore and we can understand so easily. The noise on man acts directly and acts indirectly causing fatigue, reduced working ability, interferes with agreement and concentration, rest and sleep itself. It causes mood, irritability, restlessness, mental health disorders and behavior, fatigue and insomnia. What is much more important to me as a cardiologist to cause and is one of the risk factors of developing and cardiovascular diseases, generally endovascular changes and have their... I have repeated and said in the beginning, extremely important negative effects on the cognitive and mental state of our citizens. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If today we use the time we are in, then we know that this is a very important concept, or important thing to take care of. To be all by the law [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much, time.]] as recommended in this new proposal of ours. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-22-0.u29410	Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Boška Ban Vlahek.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-22-0.u29411	Dear Secretary of State, this way I suggest and ask if you may have, in the rules and guidelines relating to this law or in some decisions, provided for the adoption of an anti-civilised or expected level of noise in space rather than the measured level of noise because noise level is a dynamic category, which in practice is visible, over time increasing?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-22-0.u29412	Thank you, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-22-0.u29413	When we talk about what you're talking about, then there's a perception of noise in every single person. Therefore, we cannot generalise that each of us has an equal threshold and an equal perception of noise. So all you're saying is that it's clearly part of everything we have to think about, but then it's part of control, verification, dynamics of development, and it should be intervened at the right time if that noise level exceeds those allowed values in one particular micro territory or slightly larger territory.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-22-0.u29414	Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Andrea Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-22-0.u29415	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, I am interested that in situations where it is necessary to issue first a solution to the ministry in meeting the conditions so that only the competent authority of the county or the City of Zagreb can issue a solution to meet the conditions, I would like to know within what time period a solution of the ministry can be expected, will it be realistically seen day, two or some maximum 15 days? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-22-0.u29416	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-22-0.u29417	What time? Well, I'm always in favour of being resolved as soon as possible, and clearly that depends on the ministry's services and probably exists, there's no legally written deadline, but there's that part where the administration has to react, and then it's called if it hasn't responded to "the silence of the administration," so it wouldn't be very good for any administration to have such an epithet, and in any case it needs to be done as soon as possible. We must not allow any of these documents to be a difficult circumstance for all of those other essential elements that follow from these calls of non-peripheral permits, which are equally important, but which must be issued in time So I personally advocate it's over as soon as possible. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-22-0.u29418	Thank you very much. And the last replica of Mrs. Anita Pocrnic Radošević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-22-0.u29419	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, you have already mentioned that settlements with more than 100,000 inhabitants, as well as certain business entities defined by this law, are required to make strategic noise maps and action plans that are delivered to the Ministry of Health, which are then forwarded to the European Commission within certain deadlines. I wonder if strategic maps for previous reporting periods have been made, or how many do we have? And do we know what number or share of citizens is exposed to excessive noise levels or what kind of noise is most exposed and what is the result of this in relation to EU countries? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-22-0.u29420	Thank you, too. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-22-0.u29421	Now you've asked a lot of questions and the numerical ones. I don't know that numerical data by heart, but we've had the same cards we've been making so far. They were usually done and measured on the basis of certain complaints from some of our local self-governments or individuals even, and even there are judicial judgments for barking dogs etc., so as not to now go to these exotic judgments, but the fact is that much has already been on the wallpaper on the noise of both individuals and local self-government and this. Exactly how much of that information I can't tell you because it would require a special I would say preparation. I don't have that information, but it's important that this law is just working in such a way that everything is under control and that it reacts to the values of recorded noises in time. That's the point I mean the law as such and that one public availability of all data through, through electronic media.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-22-0.u29422	Thank you. Now we really don't have any more replicas. Thank you very much, Mr. Plazonich. Here you go. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah? Oh, no? Yeah? Yeah? Oh, no? Yeah? Oh, no? Yeah? Yes, go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-22-0.u29423	Thank you, once again, I welcome you, Vice President, to welcome our Secretary of State and colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament. The Committee on Health and Social Policy therefore held its 6th session on 19 November 2020. discussed the final draft law amending and supplementing the Noise Protection Act, the second reading. There were 10 members present at the session, all 10 members voted in favour. We agree that this EU Directive is good and it is a good thing that we now have a repositories of noise, or observation, that, over time, changes or an obligation to every 5 years. remeasure all parameters. Action plans and strategic maps have already been in the previous law, but what we must all think is somewhere whether we can really rely on a state inspectorate only because we know that citizens are not overly satisfied with their actions. I think the Ministry of Health must take this seriously and that it must identify people who will monitor the parameters or problems that will be reported by citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-22-0.u29424	Thank you, too. And now I'm opening a debate, the first Mr. Davor Dretar to speak in front of the House of Homeland Movement Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-22-0.u29425	Respect to all. Good afternoon, everyone. Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, all welcome. These amendments mainly include adaptations related to the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of Europe, so there is no real need to add or subtract anything, but perhaps mention some small things. The words "united environmental protection conditions solution" are replaced by the words "environmental authorisation solution", which is, in principle, the only thing we need to do is legally adapt to European directives. In an explanation of the termology, the term ‘data depository’ is a central information system managed by the European Environment Agency, containing information and information on noise from the environment. What is it like to mention the i.e. Dear Mr. Secretary of State and said, noise is one of the most serious forms of pollution in the living space interferes with people, of course creating problems both for normal life and for work. But we have to notice in the past 30 years that the noise levels in Croatia have been getting pretty low, especially the noises that used to come from our ironworks, from our shipyards and our factories. Unfortunately, the level of this noise has fallen enormously over the past 30 years, apparently thanks to valuable little environmentalists whose hands have agreed and eliminated the dangers of this type of noise pollution. We've turned into a nation of waiters and maids who walk on their toes in apartments to wake up their guests. A little over a year ago, media reported extremely high noise levels created by wind turbines in the Omiscoi hinterland. According to the data I was able to check, an inspection inspection was carried out, which identified as much as 16 times the noise from the level before the wind power plant was released into operation, hence extremely high noise levels. Continued my research on the impasses of Croatian electronic reality, I found that the wind farm has two useful permits. One issued on 13 September 2019 and the other 10 March last year by the Administrative Department for Construction and Spatial Planning of the Split-Dalmatia County. I promise the Croatian public that we will check the correctness of these permits and report everything from the news. Further to Art. 7. modify or add certain articles and items and it is worth throwing an eye on, mention professional expressions such as action plans, strategic noise maps which make up a professional basis for creating spatial plans. Every time we hear those two nice words, spatial plans, each one of us instantly suppresses the heart. What you really know how to do guys who lead us know how to make a good spatial plan. For example, we have an extraordinary spatial plan that changes spatial plans so creatively on Brač, some clogged pastures, barren coves become building land, and then there's someone who can buy them out and over time very nicely materialize them. Of course, such people are no longer in government. By decisive action they have been removed. But as we listened to the figures in the DORH's work report yesterday, I'm afraid this case of creative installation of spatial plans has not yet received its number in the DORH's spatial or business plans. I will now devote myself to another Croatian branch, which is unfortunately really, extremely suffering and suffering huge damage from the pandemic of the covid-19 virus, which is of course hospitality. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. The 16th is about the powers of the municipal directorship to take administrative action, propose the launch of infringement proceedings and charge fines on the spot. Corona's crisis was welcomed by the caterers under the constant pass of various inspectorates, marked as the biggest scampers and con artists, although if all possible frauds and swindlings of Croatian hosts were added together, I'm afraid there would not be a single tenth of any quality corruption devilry. After the lockdown declared to be spring, then a little later declared victory over the pandemic, another wave came to us. The second wave resulted in the closure of all catering facilities, which is a rule in force today. It is not known when there will be at least a slight drop in measures, we are pleased to see that meetings are under way, and perhaps with early February and something will happen, but of course everything will depend on a major action plan at EU level, and I agree that we follow European policies on this issue. But if you look at social networks for a moment, you all have friends on one of them, you'll see a lot of people sitting on benches, drinking coffee they bought at a nearby bakery or at a gas station, but they can't do that in a coffee shop. If the bakers are allowed to sell juices, milk and coffee, at least allow the caterers to operate on terraces even if only selling hot drinks. So once again, as in my first reading of this law, I would like to remind myself of some suggestions from catering associations. It is necessary to raise the limits of the currently prescribed maximum equivalent level of performance of music from 65 dB in a closed space, it is necessary to reduce the fines currently prescribed to amounts of 50 to 100,000 kuna. Due to the permitted markedly low, according to the law, the highest equivalent level of performance of music of 65 dB that often exceeds and the conversation of guests in a full catering facility itself, the hosts of course often receive applications from anonymous persons, tenants of buildings and applications go to the competent services, inspectors come out on the ground and often little and abuse their legal powers and act as sheriffs and charge high penalties and threaten to close the joints. As a country that, one day when we win covid-19, will return mainly to tourism rely, Croatia should and should ease certain legal measures and fight for increased tolerance in EU offices through both the legal framework and through more tolerance inspections, especially in the time of the tourist season for which we all hope to welcome it without masks on our faces and with all full-powered catering facilities. Of course, we should always look at the other side of the medals, we also understand people who live in close proximity to the catering facilities both in large cities or along our coast in tourist resorts and places, of course, that the whole-night partying also disturbs people and reduces their working ability, but once again we will call for a little more tolerance and mutual respect and that we all find a place for quality co-existence together. Unfortunately, as far as the noise is concerned, I'm afraid I have another worrying piece of information until 2050. Croatia will lose 16% of the current population. The estimate is that in the next 30 years, we'll be out of half a million inhabitants. So whoever comes out last, close the door but quietly.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-22-0.u29426	Thank you very much. We have a breach of Mrs. Peovic's Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-22-0.u29427	Well, here's the injured Rules of Procedure, Art. 238, the MP doesn't stick to the subject, it's a common injury, but I still have to mention it. In addition to not sticking to the subject, the COVID-19 epidemic is referred to as some global conspiracy, so as if cafes and restaurants had closed because of some heavy conspiracy but in any case, you had to warn him because he's not sticking to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-22-0.u29428	Yes, my answer is always the same and to that, I mean if every time we had to share warnings when it went a little off topic in a broad speech where it spoke even about the subject, then we would always share warnings, so I won't share any warning to you or to Mr. Dretar. Thank you very much, thank you very much. [[Intruder Peovic: Maybe we should start with that.]] Don't make me have to share a warning. - Mrs. Crescent. Anka Mrak-Taritash, Club of Representatives of the Centre and Glass.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-22-0.u29429	Thank you very much, dear Croatian Parliament, distinguished secretary of state with associate, colleague and colleague. We are facing the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Noise Protection Act. I'm really going to try not to get out of the picture but to talk a little bit about some experiences that we have in the past and talk a little bit about what we need to take care of in the future. So, we will accept this amendment and supplementing the law, this amendment and the addition of the law is on the trail of all EU directives but also on the trail and common sense and of everything that we need to take care of. In our space, media attention is always given to individual procedures in space or construction at the end. So all of this goes through the spatial planning process and then the process of issuing a local permit and then when baggers comply with the building permit, so I'm saying everything that's done right, they go out and then the public sees what it's about. And what the colleague said about the applicable permits, when a valid permit was issued, then the use of the permit found that everything was in the process in any way necessary. And so much for that. So in the process of planning space and how you're going to use space, making noise is one of the most important things. I've been walking this world for a long time, I've graduated from college in some last century and started doing spatial planning in another country. That's when spatial planning was about to be done. I have to say it's a lot simpler than it was because property didn't matter, you got space, you had a vision, you took a bisect, so where you wanted it, we called it either napolitics or blocks, you went to design and work nicely, and of whose property it was, whose land it was, someone else was dealing with. By creating a Croatian state, we realized that there is one country behind it and spatial planning is not exactly the case. When the topic is environmental protection and space protection, somewhere back in the 80s last century, it was once a theme that man would be left with nothing to do with rhubarb space. And then we started to deal with environmental protection, we started taking care of a number of things, one of those things that we started taking care of is noise. You know, you have to keep this in mind. Take a look at the cities or municipalities you come from. I always refer to the city of Zagreb, the longest I live, the longest I do, and it's kind of the most acceptable to me, when you see that the city of Zagreb at some other time, when there were no such sophisticated ways and everything else, when it was planning its industrial zones, then it usually planned them on the eastern part of the city because the winds that smoke in Zagreb, not the political ones that we like to talk about but the real ones, smoke in a way that all the smells that come from these industrial zones, actually go towards the city, but outside of the city. The same way when these industrial zones were first planned was a very guided account that the nearby apartment was not planned. They are always planned with some buffer zones relative to the apartment because it absolutely tried to protect the apartment. Now that we're going one step further, then of course we're also doing sophisticated possibilities, we've got maps of noise and everything but we have to do it, we have to stick to it. So when we talk about cards of noise, you can watch them at the stage of global planning, where you'll plan individual zones. Whether the zones are intended for the economy, whether the zones are intended for housing, whether the city centre is, of course, not all the same parameters. Equally, big noise makes infrastructure, and I mean super-ground infrastructure. Look at our highways as they are very smart and very somehow accounting, they basically really bypass cities, when they go through the city, they make sure they go through the least sensitive part of the cities and there you have those bokobrans that are very, very successful and something that is being set up. What's the problem and that's what I put in the secretary of state as a replica, that's what we call our so-called secretaries. mixed zones. So, at the moment when there was a great need for a new amount of apartments, then you, New Zagreb, is that now I am not bothering you and I'm not drowning but this is one of the laws that I love to talk about, it's law, it's not political law, it's not the world's law, but it's a law that's extremely important for a step further, so look at New Zagreb, when you go a little bit, there's no New Zagreb on the ground floor in those first buildings of business space. Not because there wasn't supposed to be business space at the time, but because if you want to have a place to live and if you want to have a quality apartment and you have a business space downstairs, you definitely have to have a problem here. Of those most prosalytic, to have some sort of delivery come in the morning, so pound the door so wake you, of course in using to, of course, I won't be talking about hospitality in the context of the pandemic, but my one experience in one part of the city of Zagreb is in the spatial plan that was brought forward to be further, in more detailed planning, was that in one part where two residential skyscrapers were working, that on the ground floor there could be a maximum of 30% hospitality. And then the first one got a license for the coffee shop and when it was used, 30% were no longer issued on the ground floor of the license, so it's still cafes, bright or anything. These people who bought the business space have started a dispute in front of the Constitutional Court and they got it because 30% means nothing, they're not exactly defined which spaces they're intended for, and you can't say that 30% is the first one to use it, exploit it, and others don't. What do I want to tell you? What I'm saying is, we need to take great care of the planning phase. So, you have developmental planning where you plan individual zones and you really take care of them, we all know, analyses are made, different estimates are made that they don't plan zones, so when it comes to housing, they're either a buffer zone and they're looking at all possible things. When it comes to the fact that you're doing a building that has business content on the ground floor, the only condition is that the project of that building is exactly what the purpose of what business space can be, that when someone buys that business space they know what they're buying and they're there, it's always been the biggest obstacles and the inspection because people, of course, especially those who are on the first floor, they don't have a better view of it, even the project said that they have hospitality underneath it, they haven't seen it, but they're learning it. You know, the first time it burns, the second time it knows. But what do I want to tell you? So, you always see both the public and the journalists, you see in the end, so planning is one serious process in which all documents of spatial planning or spatial plans are in public debate. People forget about that. They don't leave, they don't look, so it's all to be taken care of. Indeed, it is necessary to keep an eye on the card, what I was about to say at first, and I will repeat it in the end. You have two spatial planning systems. One system is that sectoral spatial planning, the other system is that it is interdisciplinary. Different countries have decided on different models. Croatia has decided so little to be interdisciplinary, but in the end it has proved that we have a sectoral sector, sectoral meaning that each sector plans for itself, and you do not unite on one map. What you really need to take care of, and that is that all these cards of noise are actually, are for you to use, but also for interdisciplinary spatial planning. And now I'm just gonna say something in the last sentence. You see this earthquake, this devastating earthquake that has destroyed the Bania/Banovina area. The first background that should be maps of seismic problems and that maybe when new buildings are built, or houses, I hope that it will come to places where the consequences are, and the country has caused consequences, it has made gaps, it has made holes, it is on maps that are the basis for spatial planning, that there is no more construction there. Not just the house, but the infrastructure. So that should be the first background, and that's it, the interdisciplinary planning I'm talking about, and you won't blame me for coming from the noise to the earthquake, I took advantage of this, but the noise is One of the things a man feels deeply and we need to take care of. [[Intruder: Anka, time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-22-0.u29430	Mr. Sacic asked for a word. Probably taking a break. Is that right?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-22-0.u29431	Dear chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, the Croatian public. I am looking for a break on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club to express the deepest, strongest protest against the behaviour of Croatian President Milanovic and the defence minister who today insulted the harshest Croatian Victim [[Intruder: Mr. Sacic]] Defence Forces Marking [[Intruder: With respect...]] Maslenica Liberation Action [[Intruder: Mr. Sacic, with all due respect...]] It's embarrassing, [[Intruder:... about the daily, only about the agenda can you ask for a break.]] Please, let me finish my two minutes. [[I have to...]] Mr. President, it's [[I need to give you a heads-up.]] Disdainful behavior, condemn that act. [[No, I don't, I don't have to if it's not a point...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-22-0.u29432	If it's not part of the agenda, I don't have to do the Rules of Procedure. Excuse me. Let's go, no, no, [[Intruder: This is an extraordinary circumstance.]] Next, I'm sorry, but with all due respect, I mean, I have to give a warning because that's the only part of the agenda we can ask for a break. [[Intruder: Roughly rebel against the Homeland War.]] You have other options. - Mrs. Crescent. Boška Ban Vlahek has a word in front of the Club of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-22-0.u29433	Dear chairman, state secretary with a co-worker, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. Noise is one of the main psychophysical initiators of human problems and today it is spread to almost all urban industrialised areas, both in our world and in our frameworks. This has been particularly developed in developed countries and areas. With the help of state regulatory and technological progress, noise is absolutely possible to put under reasonable control, but it needs to be given the necessary attention and to allocate certain financial resources. The time will come when noise will become one of the greatest enemies of man and will have to fight it as we fight against plague and cholera. These prophetic words were spoken by Robert Koch at the end of the 19th century, and today they are reality. According to World Health Organization reports, noise is added to water and air pollution in 3 of the most dangerous pollutants in the human environment. WHO noise pollution defines a sound higher than 65 dB. It has been demonstrated that sounds that pass 75 dB are harmful to human health and that they have a harmful effect on the environment, while sounds that cross 120 dB are already considered painful. The seriousness of this problem can be seen in the fact that noise towards the European Environment Agency is the cause of more than 16600 premature deaths and more than 72,000 hospitalisations every year in Europe alone. A systematic solution to noise protection is an essential element in the adoption of all rules relating to the protection of citizens where a compromise between citizens' needs for economic, social, religious and other needs and the protection of their health should be found in law making. Noise protection is an important factor in improving the quality of life of every man and reducing the risk of endangering the health of people exposed to higher noise emissions. Although this proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Noise Protection is mainly envisaged as a alignment with the EU legislation that we are a permanent member, which has great sensitivity to this type of pollution and potential protection, I think it is important now and that this is an opportunity to install into the law and the solutions that have been adopted by cities with implemented smart city systems where systemic solutions are significantly reduced noise levels in their areas. I also recognise the implementation problems of this law in the power of the JLS representative body to decide on the temporary possibility of increasing the permitted level of noise in order to meet the need to hold public meetings and organise entertainment, entertainment and sports events and other activities in an open or closed space for the population and guests because it has been demonstrated in practice that the frequency of holding representative bodies meetings does not comply with the needs to make such decisions. Sanitary inspectors of the State Inspectorate shall be authorised to temporarily restrict or temporarily prohibit the exercise of a particular activity to a legal person or natural person by a reasoned oral decision for a maximum duration of 15 days, which I consider to be excessive powers in terms of the duration of the prohibition or restrictions on the performance of the activity. I would suggest to the Minister who will adopt the regulations and guidelines relating to this law, as I have already told the Secretary of State through replication, this way that the decisions provide for the adoption of measures for the anticipated or expected level of noise in space, rather than for the measured noise level, because the noise level is a dynamic category which is, as is apparent in practice, increasing over time. The SDP advocates' club will support this proposal for a law on changes and additions to the Noise Protection Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-22-0.u29434	Thank you, too. Mr. Ivan Kirin will now speak on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-22-0.u29435	Dear Vice President, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. We have definitely come to the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Noise Protection Act. This law aligns the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with EU legislation. This law adopts the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 June 2002. on the assessment and management of noise from the environment last amended by Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 5 June 2019. on the harmonisation of reporting obligations in the field of environment-related legislation. The Noise Protection Act lays down all measures to avoid and prevent or reduce adverse effects on human health caused by noise in the environment, including disturbances in particular when determining exposure to noise in a way that makes noise maps based on noise assessment methods, ensuring availability of environmental noise data and making noise protection action plans based on data used in the making of noise maps. The protection against noise is mandatory to implement and ensure its implementation by the state administration body, units of local and regional self-government, and legal and natural persons carrying out their registered activities. The inspection of the application of that law and the regulations adopted pursuant to it shall be carried out by the sanitary inspectors of the State Inspectorate. The obligation to draw up strategic noise maps and action plans stemming from the law have populated areas of over 100,000 inhabitants, the main road with more than 3 million passing vehicles per year, the main railway tracks with more than 30,000 train crossings per year, the main airports with more than 50,000 operations. The proposed law also introduces a new concept of ‘data repositories’, which is the information system managed by the European Environment Agency and which contains information and information on noise from the environment made available through the National Data Reporting and Exchange Authority, i.e. strategic noise maps and action plans, is an expert basis for the development of spatial plans in the process of strategic assessment of the impact of plans and programmes on the environment. Strategic noise maps are coordinated with changes in space, and must be renewed every 5 years. from the day of manufacture, or from the date of approval. The action plans shall be reviewed and audited as appropriate in case of major changes affecting the existing noise situation and at least 5 g. After the date of approval of those plans. We can define noise as an unwanted sound. Noise is an unbalanced mixture of tones of different frequencies. According to the World Health Organization, noise is the second most serious cause of health problems caused by the environment immediately after polluted air. The noise of the environment is an adverse sound caused by human activity for human health, including noise broadcast by means of road, rail, air, maritime, river transport as well as facilities and procedures for which, according to specific regulations in the field of environmental protection, a solution to the uniform conditions of environmental protection or a solution to the acceptability of procedures for the environment. Noise is the poison of modern life and a major health problem, damage to people as well as passive smoking. 113 million Europeans suffer from noise. Noise harms people and animals, for example. The whales are often disoriented due to the sound of boat propellers, so they fall on the shore, but other animals are also affected by noise. 70 million Europeans are exposed to noises that exceed 55 dB, a major problem is a lack of sleep. According to WHO, for a good dream noise should be below 30 dB and individual should not exceed 45 dB. The maximum noise is allowed in the economic zone and 80 dB at the border of zone ownership in order to achieve the normal communication level of noise in the workplace shall not exceed 65 to 70 dB. HDZ, the HDZ club will support this law not only because of the harmonisation of Croatian legislation with EU legislation but rather as it will regulate and control the level of noise that crosses the recommended values and which multiplely endangers human health. Thank you for your attention and may the good Lord protect you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-22-0.u29436	Thank you very much. One piece of information now before we move to individual debates, we have three individual debates and then after that we have only one bilateral agreement with the Republic of Portugal and only one club registered so that after these two discussions that will most likely take place briefly we will immediately move to the presentation of the position so that you know in advance that the presentation of the position will not be in one but sooner. Now it's Mr. Ivan Celic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-22-0.u29437	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with an associate. In front of us is the Final Proposal of the Law on Noise Protection. This law lays down measures to avoid, prevent or reduce adverse effects on human health caused by noise in the environment. Part of EU policy is to achieve a high level of protection of health and the environment, and one of the objectives that should be pursued is to protect against noise. In the Green Paper on future noise protection policy, the European Commission has dealt with the noise of the environment as one of the biggest environmental problems in Europe. The European Parliament is still in 1997. calls for specific measures and initiatives to be set out by the Directive on the reduction of noise from the environment and has seen a lack of reliable and comparable data on the state of various sources of noise. It was therefore necessary to develop short, medium- and long-term measures to reduce the noise produced by the largest sources. This is one of the laws that could be in the portfolio of some other ministries, such as the representative Mrak Taritas mentioned about strategic noise maps, which would be in the portfolio of the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development, or the Ministry of Spatial Planning, Construction and State Property. If we look at the data related to the City of Zagreb he has made strategic noise maps for the third round of reporting to the European Commission and for the day, night and night 26.7% of residents are exposed to excessive noise levels of road traffic, 2.9% of excessive noise levels of rail traffic and 0.05% of excessive noise levels of industrial plants and plants. Data do not differ significantly from other European cities of similar size. At this time, the Croatian Environment and Nature Agency is conducting air quality index measurements in the City of Zagreb and Slavonski Brod due to the specific situation related to the refinery in the neighbouring country. What we can definitely expect in EU cities is to measure the pollution index through noise. When it comes to overstepping the noise allowed under the Noise Protection Act, it is best to seek help from the Sanitary Inspectorate, which is part of the State Inspectorate. The sanitary inspection shall take place on the ground and shall carry out the measurement, on the basis of the results obtained, draw up a report which may require a reduction of noise if it exceeds the legal limit. According to the Regulation on the highest permitted noise levels in the environment in which people are staying and working, the mentioned limits in the closed living rooms of the zone are predominantly residential for 35 dB of the day, and 25 dB of the night and most often it is excessive noise if it is construction sites in the populated area or performing music in working night objects. It should be pointed out that the provisions of the Law on the Protection of Noise do not apply to the noise of daily household activities and to noise from residential areas, and then in the case of dog barking, knocking the door is not the authority of the Sanitary Inspectorate, it cannot act in that case. In this case, the police may act, so if it is a sign of a breach of public order and peace, then the police shall, in the event of a breach, submit a report to the competent court or to a report. So, this law achieves harmonisation with EU legislation, introduces a new concept of data repositories, I think that there are strategic noise maps, which were spoken during the first reading, given that the settlements are greater than 100,000 inhabitants, then there is not a very significant number of units of local self-government because they were concerned that this would pose a huge financial burden on smaller units of local self-government if even smaller units of local self-government should make strategic noise maps.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-22-0.u29438	Thank you very much, stay, have one replica of the gentleman, two replicas actually, one is Mr. Kirina.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-22-0.u29439	Dear Vice President, Your Honor. Dear Representative Celić, noise damages the individual himself but also society, given that an individual needs company in the form of his work, so we can talk about hearing damage, communication interference, harassment, fatigue, poor concentration and poor productivity of the individual. The noise causes diseases of physical, social, psychological nature. What do you think about that and can you professionally help with these psychic natures? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-22-0.u29440	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-22-0.u29441	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Representative, we have now had the situation, therefore, two innate fears are fear of sudden sound and fear of loss of background, I say in the context of the earthquakes that have occurred, if we look at the area of the city of Zagreb di earthquakes almost 10 months. In smaller or larger spaces rock the ground, it can definitely have implications for mental health. So, at that moment of acute reaction, so that fear of sudden sound may have some repercussions, some talk about PTSD, I would be very careful there, so it would be only for those people who lost someone their neighbor or lost material property in a way that had run out of house, but insomnia, depression, anxiety definitely affects a significant number of people due to problems that are inter alia related to noise exposure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-22-0.u29442	Thank you very much. - Mrs. Crescent. Porniæ Radošević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-22-0.u29443	... means, at the time of the adoption of this law, there have been some disputes over whose jurisdiction this law should be, whether it be the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Environmental Protection or the spatial arrangement. [[Specially enabled.]] From this presentation, it is clear that health protection was the priority of putting a particular health ministry in charge of this law. The same data repository and the information system managed by the Environment Agency, but this also means that the Ministry of Health will provide these data in that database.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-22-0.u29444	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-22-0.u29445	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, you mentioned that well, so if we're talking about this repository where strategic noise maps are located, then it's definitely not the Ministry of Health. I think the decision to go towards the Ministry of Health is just about protection against noise and implications, as counterpart Kirin used to say, implications for both physical and physical health, so that then the implementation of this directive was kind of transferred to the health ministry's authority by seeking to stress the importance and possible consequences of excessive noise to our health.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-22-0.u29446	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. Thank you very much. Renata Sablar-Dračevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-22-0.u29447	Thank you, Vice President. Once again, distinguished secretaries with a co-worker, co-workers and fellow MPs. Here, therefore, in this law, the most important thing is to be, that the noise is regulated and controlled. And that's what we should stick to. We know that noise intensity is different, it oscillates in daily rhythms but we also must not forget the seasonal noise. It means the noise our coastal area has during the summer months. This House makes many laws, most of which are EU directives, which are good and in most cases in the interests of citizens but then gets stuck. Implementation in this country isn't going very well. I'm afraid that even with this law that we're about to pass, we could have problems with implementation again, and then we're all surprised how citizens perceive this respectable home. Yes, action plans and strategic maps will be public, so we again expect that all these maps and plans will be monitored by the public, citizens, journalists and institutions will react only if they are called by the media. I must admit that I am very afraid that this law, which is good and in the interest of citizens, will be a dead letter on paper if the public and journalists are not activated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-22-0.u29448	Thank you, too. And now it's time for the last pay phone, ma'am. Mirela Ahmetovic. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-22-0.u29449	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, a respected state secretary with a co-worker. Art. 5. this proposal for a law in amendments and additions to the Noise Protection Act, I quote: "In the process of issuing a solution to the acceptability of procedures for the environment, the conditions to be met regarding the implementation of noise protection measures are laid down." Such solutions, or measures, are prescribed by a solution on the acceptability of environmental procedures signed by Minister Coric, among other things, through the Ministry of Environment and Energy in the previous term and in this mandate through the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development. Such a solution was issued by the Ministry of Environmental and Energy Protection in the past term for the project of a floating LNG terminal in Omislje. The environmental impact study found that the current noise situation at the reference points and the reference point was not only within the economic area but also within the construction area of Omisalj, there was a noise or noise level of 42.3 dB and 44 dB respectively, we are talking about two reference points. The solution was prescribed, a solution issued or signed by Minister Coric, that the highest allowed level of noise of the LNG terminal procedure, 36 dB at one reference point and 38 dB at the second reference point, respectively. Now, let's rely on a regulation on permissible noise levels that says that the noise image that would come from newly designed structures, and that's where the LNG terminal with the noise sources belongs, must not increase the existing noise levels by more than 1 dB. Based on the above, it follows that the noise image from the operation of a floating LNG terminal does not increase the existing noise level at all. That everything is fine, LNG Croatia claims, although only orally saying that there is no problem because, as counterpart Kirin said in one replica earlier, the measured level of noise in the economic sector, so only at one reference point, is not measured at two points within the construction settlement, and it is 80 dB and it is quite okay. However, when asked by the same director of LNG Croatia to provide documentation to confirm this, of course, he refuses. The director does not see the reason why he co-operates or calms the local community or has the same attitude as his superior minister, Coric, which is that the citizens of Omis, the island of Krk and the Primorje-Gorski County, are second-class citizens and are completely irrelevant. It seems that the inhabitants of Omis and Njivica and Malinska and Kostrena and Crikvenica and the Queen who wrote the comments have made numerous remarks and made public statements about noise and vibrations within those areas that I listed, or deaf or actually did not mind that noise higher in the current state of 2016, I note 42 and 44 dB, and it bothers them that it is 36 or 38 dB or 6 or 8 dB, respectively. And now here we are talking about the law amending and supplementing the Law on Noise Protection, of course we must bring it into line and bring it forward because we are obliged to bring it into line with EU directives, but the problem remains with its implementation. As a representative, I can support these amendments because they are in line with EU directives, but I appeal that the laws in this country finally begin to be respected. This leaves a dead letter on paper and fills the form and affects it in a very negative way, confirmed by fellow Cellic, now I don't see him here, not only physically but the mental state of people when we're talking about noise in particular. Whatever the law is, it remains a fundamental problem, i.e. what remains a fundamental problem, is that all those who need to translate this law into real implementation, especially those who are responsible for this portfolio today, which is the Minister of Economy and Sustainable Development who issued the solution, ordered measures that must be respected in order to protect the health and life of Omisalj municipality residents, in fact, this law does not respect or care about its implementation and remains the champion of impoverishment. As I heard in the replica of Mr. Kirin, such life and the health of the people of the municipality of Omis, he imagines as I have heard in the replica of Mr. Kirin. election units are actually not the subject of interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-22-0.u29450	Thank you, too. I don't see a replica, I don't see any further discussions, so I'm closing the debate and voting when the conditions are met. We move to the last item of the agenda before taking a stand. Final proposal of the Act confirming the contract between the Republic of Croatia and the Portuguese Republic on the mutual protection of classified data, second reading, P.Z. No. 74 The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. For your information, this is about the draft law or the final proposal for law No. 74. That Article of the Rules of Procedure shall mean that it shall be in one reading. Amendments can be submitted until the end of the debate and the debate has been carried out by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Mr. Secretary of State Josip Salapic of the Ministry of Justice and Administration is with us, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-22-0.u29453	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected MPs and MPs. We are facing the Final Proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of Contracts between the Government of the Republic of Portugal and the Government of the Government of Portugal on the mutual protection of classified data. This law confirms contracts between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Portuguese Republic on the mutual protection of classified data in order to make its provisions within the meaning of 141. The Republic of Croatia has become part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. The Government of the Republic of Portugal and the Government signed a contract on the mutual protection of classified data on 13 June 2020 in Zagreb. That contract creates a legal framework and lays down rules for the mutual protection of classified data on relations between the Republic of Croatia and the Portuguese Republic which will relate to all future classified agreements and cooperation contracts, which contain or include classified data. The Treaty lays down a legal framework for the protection of classified data common to be generated or exchanged between the Contracting Parties, the competent authorities for the implementation of the contract are designated, the equivalent degrees of confidentiality of the treatment of classified data, the obligations relating to national measures for the protection of classified data, the mechanisms for the transfer of classified data, the specific provisions on classified contracts are laid down, the way in which visits and meetings of experts are carried out, the conduct of safety violations and the issue of the costs incurred in the implementation of the contract. The implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional financial resources in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia. We propose that representatives and MPs accept that international contract. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-22-0.u29454	Thank you very much. The replica of Mrs. Crescent. Radošević, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-22-0.u29455	Thank you very much, Vice President. Your Honor, Secretary of State. The Office of the National Security Council of the Republic of Croatia shall be responsible for the implementation and supervision of the law in question or contract between the Republic of Croatia and Portugal, as well as other agreements on the exchange of such data, which, according to some information, have been signed 17 in the Republic of Croatia so far. I wonder what the dynamics and the need to sign these contracts depend on, and is that number 17 small, large, or is it in accordance with the needs shown? I'm also interested in which bodies most often use the data that are the subject of a classified data protection contract? So we expect the bodies to use these data exclusively, not individuals.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-22-0.u29456	Thank you. Mr. Salapic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-22-0.u29457	As regards the obligations of HS and us as representatives of the Government and you as representatives of MPs and MPs in HS, this is an international contract, in accordance with Article. 141. The constitution must be incorporated into our legal system. As far as these topics are concerned, therefore the dynamics of signing the treaty depend on international assessments in co-operation between the two countries. It is a specific area of security data that is very high secrecy and the Office of the National Security Council, or body which is the head of the Office of the National Security Council, in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice and Administration, prepares that international contract. So these are specific data that depend on security assessments of data cooperation between the two countries that do not now fall within the domain of public data, it is about protecting the national interests of the Republic and suspending cooperation between several Member States both within and outside the EU. So, a specific area that is an international contract that we accept as such only because of levels of secrecy is within the competence of the National Security Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-22-0.u29458	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. Do the representatives, the committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first is Mr. Davor Dretar who will speak on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-22-0.u29459	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I wish we really always had this level of harmony around all the points that are right here in front of us like we're going to have around this. There's nothing to say. This contract only to quote a number of sentences of reasons, establish rules to ensure the protection of classified data that are common to or exchanged between parties, classified data shall indicate any data independently of the form to be protected against security infringements which are classified in accordance with the national laws and regulations of the sending Party. This Treaty also defines the degrees of confidentiality of data such as limited, confidential, secret and very secret. The contract also defines measures to protect and access classified data. I remind you, we are in an extremely informed civilization where data has become a trading commodity. When this classified state-level data comes public, we have Panama papers or Edward Snowden or Julian Assange cases. I'm sure that, of course, all the other clubs will act as well as our own, the Homeland Movement Club, which, as well as any document necessary for bilateral cooperation, will support this contract. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-22-0.u29460	Thank you, too. Mr. Domagoj Price will speak on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-22-0.u29461	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. Today, one of the most powerful topics has become data protection. Modern technology enables quantification and dissemination of data at incredible speeds and thus those data which are thought to be, on some basis, not to be made available. It is therefore logical and the adoption of a contract between the two countries, in this case between the Republic of Croatia and the Portuguese Republic on the mutual protection of classified data. This is also the consequence of the growing need for coordination, but also of the close relations between our two countries. It is materials or data which are determined by the degree of secrecy according to national legislation. The contract between the Republic of Croatia and the Portuguese Republic creates a legal framework for all future talks on cooperation and classified data that either contains or includes data. It is important to note what is already today and to say that no additional resources are needed from the state budget. Legal basis comes from higher legal rules, including the Constitution. The contract defines the exchange of classified data as a consequence of good cooperation between the countries, those of the information exchanged between Croatia and Portugal. A security breach would be a loss of confidentiality of the availability or integrity of the data. It is more of a degree of secrecy to a limited, confidential, secret or very secret in changes between states is being notified by diplomatic means. The relevant measures for the protection of classified data must be used. It is important that the security authority of one State informs the security authority of another State in the event of withdrawal or alteration of the degree of secrecy. It is important with regard to the importance of data, it should be noted that they are destroyed except classified as very secret, which other than those classified as very secret returning to the sending party except in crisis situations when they can be destroyed with notification to the sending State. Clearly, when it comes to data of such importance, it is necessary to provide and monitor through inspection, as provided for in this Treaty. In this case, the security authority of one State shall require the country in which the data are found to be made available to the security authority of that State to carry out a security inspection. For safety reasons, it is also necessary to define access to data, which is settled. The 10th team of contracts. It is important to note that in this contract that we are talking about today, it remains in force indefinitely. But we need to know that Croatia can end this contract in writing at any time, it is a bilateral agreement between the two states, i.e. the Portuguese Republic and the Republic of Croatia. Croatia has already signed such contracts with 17 other EU countries or other European states. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-22-0.u29462	Thank you, too. Mr. Ivan Budalic in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club, please. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-22-0.u29463	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Secretary of State. In front of us is the Final Proposal of the Law on the confirmation of the contract between the Republic of Croatia and the Portuguese Republic on the mutual protection of classified data. The aim of this legislative proposal is to comply with Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The 140th century is the 1st century. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in the prescribed procedure and with the confirmation of the HS Republic of Croatia shall end its internal and legal procedure in order to create assumptions that the contract between the Republic of Croatia and the Portuguese Republic on the mutual protection of classified data will enter into force and its provisions within the meaning of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 141. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia has become part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia which, under their legal power, are above the law and below the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. In view of the nature of the procedure itself of confirming international contracts governed by the Law on the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts, which also formally expresses its willingness to be bound by an already concluded international contract, as well as the fact that, at this stage of the procedure, the text of the international contract cannot be changed or complemented as a rule, is proposed in accordance with Article. 207. The Rules of Procedure of HS this final draft law discusses and accepts in one reading. The implementation of the law in question does not require the provision of additional financial resources in the national budget of the Republic of Croatia. And the law will enter into force on 8 days from the day of its publication in the National Journal, while the contract will enter into force 30 days after the date of receipt of the last written notice sent to diplomatic channels declaring the completion of each party's internal procedures necessary for that purpose. The agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Portuguese Republic on the mutual protection of classified data is the result of good cooperation between the two countries in the field of exchange of classified data and is based on common interests and the development of relations between the two countries in the field of information security, as well as in other areas of inter-state cooperation. Following this, and in accordance with the solutions and standards set out in the regulations which have been laid down since 2007. the regulated area of protection of classified data in the Republic of Croatia, as well as the basis of the assessment that cooperation between the two countries in the field of the protection of classified data was signed on 30 June 2020. in Zagreb, the contract between the Republic of Croatia and the Portuguese Republic on the mutual protection of classified data which creates a legal framework in the relations between the two countries and establishes rules on mutual protection of classified data which will relate to all future cooperation contracts and classified contracts concluded by the Contracting Parties, which contain or include classified data. In addition, the contract establishes a legal framework for ensuring the protection of classified data that is common to be generated or exchanged between the Contracting Parties. The competent authorities for the implementation of the contract shall be designated, equivalent degrees of secrecy, classified data management, obligations relating to national measures for the protection of classified data, mechanisms for the transfer of classified data, specific provisions on classified contracts are contained, arrangements for the achievement of visits and meetings of experts, procedures for security infringements, as well as the question of the costs incurred in the implementation of the contract. So far, the Republic of Croatia has signed 17 bilateral agreements on the exchange and protection of classified data with EU countries and other European countries, and have led to a high quality exchange of classified data and respect for the highest standards in their protection. I support the adoption of this law, which aims to strengthen the protection of classified data that are common in cooperation or are exchanged between the Republic of Croatia and Portugal, by means of the following on behalf of the HDZ Club of Representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-22-0.u29464	Thank you very much. Thank you. Now there's a single debate coming up and it's from Mr. Zeljko Pavić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-22-0.u29465	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. I only volunteered to try to get an answer from the government's representative, given that I had to be absent from the club's obligations during your presentation. It is related to access to classified data by natural persons. In fact, you know for yourself that a large number of our people are working on projects in other countries, and when these projects are related to classified data, problems arise. Why are there problems? Because it is simply not possible to access this data because of the legislation that is present in these countries and also if experts from some other countries are in Croatia, on these projects that need to be accessed by classified data, certain procedures must be carried out. It is, however, that if data is to be accessed, the classified data of the person accessing them should be passed by a certain security check or a certain degree security check. My question is, here you are now focused on you if you have an answer, if not, maybe to send me a written answer, is there any possibility of reaching an agreement that if a person in their home country has passed a security check of a certain degree, that this check is also valid for access to data in a country where he works on a project, so there is no re-checking of the same degree because the deadlines on the project are actually extending, sometimes it can take several months and then there is a delay. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-22-0.u29466	Thank you, too. I don't see any speakers anymore, so I'm closing the debate, and we'll vote when they get their... What replica? [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] So why isn't it up there? All right. Here you go, Mr. Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-22-0.u29467	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, I just wanted one clarification, did a colleague, when he referred to these cases, think about citizens from EU countries or not? I think that makes one important difference after all.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-22-0.u29468	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-22-0.u29469	Yes, I meant people from EU countries no matter what project they're working on. If you wish to access within the Union classified data from another country, you must re-enter that verification. In fact, you know for yourself, if the security check is high, and the checks are pretty embarrassing because the neighborhood is going around, there's a lot of stuff that gets poked and dug afterwards, and if you've been through that check for some other job, I don't think there's any need for that check to go through again because there are unnecessary questions being asked, and it's really embarrassing for people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-22-0.u29470	Thank you very much. I think Mr. Stier wanted to say that we're going to wait for such noble projects, but I conclude, now I'm really closing the debate and we're going to vote when we get the conditions and move on to acting as I have announced.
