ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u27210	The next Club of Representatives is that of the CNS and the independent representatives, and the honourable representative Ermina Lekaj Prleskaj will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u27211	Honorable chairman, respected MPs and MPs. A catastrophic earthquake that destroyed Petrinja, Sisak, Glina and numerous towns, municipalities and villages of Sisak-Moslavina County three weeks ago confirmed how violent and unpredictable nature is. But he also showed us a demonstration of unity, solidarity, and humanity. I am therefore taking the opportunity to say one big thank you to all individuals, institutions, companies, peoples, states and all those who have been helping citizens in the area of Sisak-Moslavina County for the past 3 weeks. So let us not forget and let these good deeds fade and remain forgotten and reduced. Especially should we not forget our neighbours, our European friends, but also countries and regions that are not members of the EU, who have implemented the aid in a spot and solidarity in various ways either in financial form or in humanitarian shipments. But as I was saying in the introduction, earthquake events are unpredictable. The entire territory of the Republic of Croatia extends to a sensitive and thorny area. Over the past centuries, several devastating earthquakes have been reported. The tragic consequences of last year's Zagreb earthquake, and in particular the recent petri dish, we personally witnessed. It is therefore particularly important to have a strong teamed Seismological Service equipped with state-of-the-art technical instruments. This is one of the significant preconditions that we need to meet so that our society can cope with the earthquakes and collective traumas they cause. Thanks to the reaction of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Science and Education, a mobile set of instruments has been obtained last week to register all valuable information that could otherwise be completely lost to future scientific processing without these instruments. The only way to use more necessary instruments in a timely manner is to collect key data that should be used to further improve the seismic gambling map of the Republic of Croatia. The past weeks have once again proved to us that the spirit of international solidarity and humanism knows no state and administrative boundaries in cases of major disasters. Science, according to its basic definition, has an international character, so the results of research by Croatian seismologists will be automatically incorporated into the body of scientific knowledge of all mankind. I believe that the work of Croatian scientists with the help of new instruments will serve the entire international scientific community in a better understanding of this natural phenomenon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u27212	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives will be the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Marina Opačak Bilic will speak, please. Comrade Bulj, please not from the bench.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u27230	Thank you. Dear Vice President HS, dear colleagues and colleagues. Entrepreneurship and hospitality of one of the main branches responsible for filling the state register and GDP growth, and one of the most affected in this crisis. We all know that if there are no entrepreneurs there is no sustainable economy, and the current situation in Croatia is alarming. She was before this crisis, but now even more. So the sectors affected by the headquarters's decisions on closing insist on warning irregularities, but as no one hears them. The consequences of closing the catering sector have left entrepreneurs at the loss of power, both the hosts and those from related activities. The highest risk fell to craftsmen who correspond to their entire assets for business obligations. Despite the coercion of economic activity, accounts for business obligations continue to arrive at them, and their basic life costs did not stop, while the existing system of support and compensatory measures, along with all the best interests and best intentions of the late. A good deal of entrepreneurs did not get support for November, and some did not get support for October last year. It is clear that the largest number of craftsmen is the only source for ensuring the minimum existence. The fixed-cost model for handing over exclusively paid accounts for operating costs left the most sensitive group of entrepreneurs on the wind, and was unrealisticly expected that the average craftsman with only a few employees who, throughout the past year, operate with a loss would raise funds for basic activity and settle costs for another month. Except for, say, in charge of family and friends. And they have the right to be dissatisfied, they have the right to be bitter and to look for a fair model versus others because we have an example that coffee bars are keyed, while kiosks are mixed goods, bakerys, gas stations without any obstacles supplementing the activity by preparing and selling coffee and simple meals, ropes to people, which is not exactly an epidemiological logic. So we have the fact that only in December of last year almost 800 million kunas from catering were poured into retail. And they're not the only ones affected by wrong decisions. We have an example with travel agencies which, by decision of headquarters, are not closed and as such do not have the right to support from these measures, and they record operating losses of over 80%. Today, I want to draw attention to inequality and to making reckless decisions. It is certainly citizens' health in the first place, but the headquarters must consult with the profession in taking certain measures and what consequences these measures bear. There is confusion among citizens that one can, the other cannot. We can drink coffee from the machine on the press, but in the coffee shop where the staff is dressed and where disinfection is mandatory or on the terrace of that same cafe, we can't. So we have deprived hosts and the work of cafes or fitness centers, while hotels and spas work. A fourth grade kid can go to school, and the fifth grader can't. You've limited our passes during the Christmas holidays between the county and you've limited us at least a little human joy and a tour of our neighbors, and then when the earthquake happened, the same day you lifted them. However, the higher power, but we have seen that all of these give the impression of wrong and thoughtless decisions. So why do some good decisions always be made under more pressure? Because we know that, let's say in the first wave of lockdowns when the shelves of the store were massively empty, all of a sudden the awareness of domestic products was awakened, the awareness of the sustainable cultivation of our own food, let's buy Croatian, delivery at home, euphoric boom, and this euphoric boom lasted and acted as much as Plenkovic's radars do. The decisions of the Staff which have been taken and prohibiting the work of the aforementioned activities create a climate of uncertainty, mistrust and confusion. They are harmful to a large number of Croatian citizens who are terrified of surviving next month because the support of 4 thousand kunas, except it is not enough, is also late for 2.3 months. It is high time for these sectors to be able to work for the proportionate, with proportionate epidemiological conditions, to pay them support for the preservation of jobs by maturity and to provide them with a fairer model of fixed costs compensation. Despite the fact that they pay a pile of taxes, that VAT on catering in Croatia is the largest in Europe, despite the fact that the only sector that pays additional value tax on consumption, despite their business not knowing weekends and holidays, these people want to work Give them justice and justice. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u27231	Thank you very much. [[Applause.]] Here we can begin immediately with the presentation of the position on behalf of the clubs of representatives and independent representatives and the first one will speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns, respected representative Marko Milanović litre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u27308	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues who stayed, thank you for staying. I'm gonna talk about the fans today. Fans in Croatia carry a Stigma, a seal that follows them every step through their lives, they are a problem for state institutions, they are a problem when they provide help, they are a problem for the government that we see as we don't want to hear criticism from anyone, from either parliamentary representatives or from experts, and at least from their citizens and fans. I already told you once about this phone booth, but I don't have a problem with it again. This government, like all governments, continues to implement institutional rigorous, unfair and discriminatory policies and laws towards fans who are being threatened and taken away from some of the fundamental hard-earned rights and freedoms that we all enjoy until the moment we put a joke of a beloved club on our shoulders. At the moment when a Croatian citizen puts a scarf around his neck or a club mark on himself, he becomes a second-class citizen. He or she has a mark on them at that time, not even a mark, but a target, a target for all state institutions and repressive authorities. The state institutions have a problem with every form of organisation of their citizens, and this is also seen in recent horrors affecting Croatia's Banovina. Croatian citizens were self-organizing and without a shred of personal interest began to help their fellow citizens, but after a few days, the attacks against fans started and from whom? Of the people who iron official cards with their wives, use official cars for private purposes and whom taxpayers' money is perceived as their own cash registers, which are normal for civil servants to have criminal applications, such people are disturbed by fans. To be clear, there are problems with fans like there are in every segment of our society. There are because humans are imperfect beings and everything, absolutely all that the human hand participates in is imperfectly corrupt and subject to questioning. Unlike some colleagues here from the assemblies that are now missing, which are part of the majority in the assembly and which are part of the government of the Republic of Croatia, who count the blood cells of the victims, fans do so in Banovina i.e. They didn't work in Banovina. They came and helped anyone who needed help, helped in villages, cities, and logistics centers. There are no where and where they have not left their trail, as well as countless times so far when it should have been helped either by participating in the Homeland War, by helping with the terrible floods in Slavonia, fires in Dalmatia or earthquakes in Zagreb. The trail of such policies and divisions made in Croatia by the ruling Vukovar today lives two parallel lives. Because of such policies today, such policies make children go to separate kindergartens and schools today in Vukovar. Because of such policies today, we have a car segregation at work in Vukovar. Such policies and people have lived on such policies for the last 30 years. They take advantage of the citizens of Croatia for their pocket and their interests. I'm talking about Vukovar because a few days ago, there was an excess involving several young men right on the trail of these deep divisions. According to what we can read from the media, six young men clashed after they were brought to a station in Vukovar. Three young men were members of the BBB, and three were members of a fan group called Delia. The grounds for the detention and initiation of proceedings against BBB members were not and should have been released. But according to the testimony of these young men, they were left alone for some time with a police officer they recognize as Red Star fans or members of the Delia fan group. For those who have not met the fan group Delije openly advocates the destruction of the order of the Republic of Croatia at each game of the Red Star, where the burning of the Croatian flag is a normal phenomenon, where the Chetnik criminal General Draža Mihajlović is publicly raised, where the transparencys taking on Croatian territory as such are regularly raised. "Glory to Serbia's Vukovar". We should ask ourselves, are we really a sovereign state if there are civil servants who belong to organizations like Delia? How to justify that an official who is also a member of an open-minded group in Croatia and who has claims on the territory of the Republic of Croatia? This would be inconceivable in a regulated state if the person in charge of safeguarding public order and order were also a member of a group aimed at destroying the same. I will ask this question in front of the Croatian sovereigns to the competent minister and all the services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u27309	Thank you. Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is that green-left bloc on behalf of which the respected representative Damir Bakic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u27366	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues, dear colleagues. Today, I would like to draw attention to the enormous problems faced by students with developmental difficulties in education under these conditions. We understand that it is not easy in these conditions to organise the activities of schools in all functions and in full capacity, but for almost a year we have not managed to establish even minimally, let alone satisfactory standards in the education of children with developmental difficulties. What's this about? Students with developmental difficulties such as those who are students of education and education centres, as well as students of higher classes of primary schools who are integrated in regular teaching in this C teaching model are also directed to continue participating from home. In almost all cases, however, this represents an insurmountable difficulty for them. First, it implies that all of them in their homes have all the necessary equipment, not only pills but also computers, scanners, printers, so that they can download specially adapted teaching materials. They all just don't. Even if some students also possess all the necessary equipment, however, most often do not have the ability to access all these communication channels on their own. Even if in a small number of cases, their teachers may not send it in time or send it completely or do not send it adequately adapted teaching materials, sometimes by failure, but much more often due to overloading and all increased obligations in this mixed teaching model. And finally assistants in class. Their help here would be extremely valuable, but they're not enough. In addition, many of them are not able to come to their homes. But most importantly, let us not forget that they are neither invited nor often qualified to be teachers to the students with developmental difficulties. It's their role to help master the class. It is incomprehensible that we have been here almost a year after the pandemic broke out we are still unable to provide students with developmental difficulties with one of their fundamental rights, the right to education. The team is harder to deal with because it is not about isolated cases but about hundreds of students, about a whole group that is particularly vulnerable and to whom we are obliged to show our special care and attention. I therefore call on Minister Fuchs and the government as a whole to approach the most urgent solution to this problem. One of the possible and desirable solutions is to strengthen and expand the network of continuing assistants and better regulate their status as well as competences and competences. Our obligation to all students with special needs is great and important and our expectations in this respect are high. I invite you colleagues and colleagues to join us in this campaign, and we will all be together to fully respond to the needs of students with developmental difficulties and all students with special needs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u27367	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of the Homeland Movement on behalf of which the respected representative Daniel Spajic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u27415	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed chairman. Soon, a year ago, as the companies for the management of compulsory and pension funds submitted a report for 2019, the deadline for the delivery of such reports will soon follow for 2020. However, the ruling coalition has not yet found it appropriate to place these reports on the parliament's agenda, which clearly speaks about the relation to the overall pension policy. We have repeatedly warned behind this speaker about an extremely difficult situation in which our overall pension system is located and the unfavourable trends that are yet to be expected in the years to come. We know that the vast majority of our pensioners have a hard time living with pensions that on average reach 40 percent of the average salary. Out of nearly 40 billion kuna needed for such small pensions, only half are collected through pension contributions while the deficit, or the other half, comes from taxes and other budget revenues. This situation is multiplely harmful. On the one hand, there is no room for the necessary shift in the incomes of our pensioners and, on the other hand, because of the 20 billion kuna deficit that needs to be calmed down from other budget revenues, there are no significant tax redundancies of citizens and the economy which would further stimulate economic growth. We are in a bewitched circle which, due to unfavourable demographic trends, drags us into further lagging. Several years ago, the European Commission issued a dramatic warning that the average number of pensioners will fall from 4 to 2 at EU level due to increasing life span and unfavourable demographic trends by 2060, which will seriously endanger the sustainability of the pension system of members. According to this criterion, we are a country that was launched deep into the future by the ruling duopol because we already have only 1.2 employees per pensioner today. In some areas like the Banovina, this ratio was barely 1:1 before the earthquake. In the same document, the European Commission strongly advocates encouraging private pension savings, especially in countries that are already far below the European average, such as the Republic of Croatia. However, our commercial government of brotherhood and unity is completely uninterested in this topic. We've seen as many as 15 billion kunas a year without the necessary controls and criteria encourage everything but with only 80 million kunas private voluntary pension savings. According to the HANFA 2020 report, mandatory voluntary pension funds concluded in 2020 with more than 125 billion kuna of the total net asset value. The assets held by citizens in compulsory pension funds at the end of last year amounted to €19 billion and €6.7 billion in voluntary funds totaling around 1/3 of GDP. Since the initial planned pension reform has never been implemented until the end, the separation in II. The pension column remained on the initial 5% due to huge budget deficits over the last 20 years. The planned gradual increase in segregation to 10% of gross wages has not been made. On the well-known ability of the Government to manage state-owned assets especially state-owned enterprises, the government's proposal for a budget for the period 2020 to 2023, in which the total walk from state-owned assets is planned at a level of only 2.4 billion kuna per year with a tendency to fall to 2.1 billion to 2023. Examples of neighbouring countries such as Slovenia, Hungary and some domestic companies have also made it clear that such budget revenues could be achieved by individual our largest state-owned companies. In short, the government's lack of care for the benefit of citizens is the most visible in the pension system and with a deficit of as much as 50% from pillar I, such pensions are paid that most of our pensioners are on the verge of existence. The only solution is strong economic growth that will significantly increase the number of jobs and average wages, and this was not planned even before the root crisis. Encouragement of voluntary forms of pension savings is negligible and the investment potential of the existing 125 billion kuna pension savings of citizens is not nearly used. With this irresponsible approach by the government to one of the most difficult problems of our society, present and future pensioners can only expect a further drop in standards and uncertainty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u27484	Thank you. The next club of representatives is that of the Centre and GLAS, and will be addressed by the respected representative Anka Mrak-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u27485	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS, dear colleagues and colleagues. I don't even know how many times I've said in the Assembly that the idea of green development and everything that includes in the broadest sense the European Green Plan, a unique chance for Croatia to finally catch a connection with developed and successful after 30 years of independence. Also, every time I add that I have the impression that we're working too little, that we're missing opportunities, if we miss this one, it's very possible that the new one can be given to us for a long time or never again. These days, the EU Commission has started designing an initiative for something called the New European Bauhaus. The first original Bauhaus between the 2nd World War left an indelible mark in the world culture of art and production, design, architecture and the association of mass production with artistic vision, forever changed the way we look and shape the world around us. The new European Bauhaus is an ecological, economic and cultural project aimed at uniting design, sustainability and accessibility, and its fundamental values are sustainability, aesthetics and inclusiveness, all together as part of a large and comprehensive green plan. The Green Plan connects with our living space. A European link to cohesion, she pointed out, that Novi Bauhaus includes ways of our co-existence, our values, common areas of work and entertainment. The project would strengthen social cohesion and address housing problems. The initiative should start with 5 pilot projects to come up with new, sustainable and inclusive solutions with a prominent economic component. So much for the theory that at least at European level should soon begin to turn into practice. But where are we in Croatia? Where's the chance for us and will we take it? Zagreb was hit in March and Banija, the hair line, Banovina, was hit by catastrophic earthquakes in December. Isn't this an opportunity to revitalise space, for new development, for designing sustainable housing solutions and living together with a strong aesthetic component? Does anyone in the Croatian government and associated institutions know about this project and have they paid attention to it? Aren't the values he needs based on the exact values we need in Croatia? These are sustainability values, quality, including aesthetic and inclusiveness, what does financial accessibility mean? Will Zagreb stand still? Is Croatia moving? Will we in any way motivate and facilitate our people with ideas to engage in this project? I'm afraid to answer that question at all because you and I both know what the most likely answer is. After the earthquake in Zagreb, for a short time there was a new momentum, a revitalisation of space and development, a step into the future. Unfortunately, we all quickly gave up on illusions and hopes, as in Croatia too often. Limited, no vision, no knowledge and no will has gone into renewal, with the law, which has done everything to make sure nothing is done. New European Bauhaus. It could be an opportunity to show what we know. What human professional and intellectual capital we have, and also to turn this knowledge into concrete projects that could seriously improve the quality of life in the areas where we live. I must say that I still live in hope, but unfortunately, taught by Croatian reality, I fear that Novi Bauhaus will remain just another missed opportunity. Some new Gropius or some new Mies van der Rohe, I'm afraid, will be created elsewhere in Slovakia, Spain, Estonia, perhaps again in Germany. It would be good if something like that finally happened to us in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u27557	Thank you. The next club of MPs will be the HDZ on behalf of which respected representative Stipan Sashlin will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u27558	Dear Mr. Vice President of HS, dear colleagues and colleagues. My topic today concerns the implementation of the project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem, i.e. more precisely the current situation in the area of Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem. As you know, the project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem designed and launched the Croatian Government in 2016 and 8 March 2017. The government has set up a Council for Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem as an advisory body chaired by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. Representatives of regional and local self-government, the HGK, the HOK, the agricultural chamber, and representatives of the University of Josip Juraj Strossmayer in Osijek, as well as all elected parliamentary representatives in the 4th and 5th constituency, are involved in the work of the council, regardless of their party membership. A total of 11 meetings of the Council for Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem were held so far since the first meeting of the Council for Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem, held on 11 April 2017. in Osijek until the last 15th of October 2020 In Nasice. During the 21,219 projects so far, i.e. at the conclusion of 4.11.2020. 17.2 billion kuna is agreed, or about 90% of the planned or targeted amount of 18.75 billion kuna. Up until now, 7 billion and 539 million kuna have been paid for projects in the area of these five Slavonian counties. Given the main objective of the project, which is infrastructure, economic and demographic revitalisation of the east of the Republic of Croatia, we can say that it is a matter of significant and necessary means to realise that objective. In this respect, we must always bear in mind the fact that this area was largely occupied during the Homeland War, devastated, with destroyed and detached infrastructure and economy, and that, unfortunately, it still falls significantly behind other developed regions of the Republic of Croatia today. Unfortunately, in these areas and after the Homeland War, some negative processes also took place in terms of the economy, but also in the demographic sense that only now, here after a long series of years, by designing and implementing this project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem are beginning to show some positive trends. That is why I would like to emphasise the importance and importance of this project, Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem, which provides the necessary means for the reconstruction of capital infrastructure projects such as the reconstruction of railways, roads, highways as a basic precondition for the development of the economy, which is also a basic prerequisite for the development and creation of new jobs, i.e. the revitalisation and ultimately the demographic restoration of mainly rural areas of the east of the Republic of Croatia. What I particularly want to stress is that this project, apart from the financial part, contains something that I think is even more where and where more significant and more important, which is to restore people's trust and faith in the possibility of survival and quality of life in those areas. After many years of initial and gradual process or implementation of this project slowly but certainly changing the current negative trends by stopping the eviction of young people from these areas, a part of them are already gradually returning, starting to increase the price of real estate in these areas mainly in areas which, apart from rural and agricultural areas, also have conditions for the development of tourism and continental tourism. All these positive trends give hope and faith primarily to young people that the state has not forgotten them and that these areas can be better and better to live in. When I say that, I mostly mean young farmers in rural areas in our villages. We can and must encourage these young farmers to expand their production primarily through the development of livestock and thus create new jobs and finalise production... I also have to point out that we have to do... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u27559	No, no, sorry, sorry, buddy, you've already exceeded 15 seconds, please. The next club of representatives is that Mosta in the name of which the respected representative Miro Bulj will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u27663	Companions and colleagues, respected citizens. Here, we heard just before the discussion of colleagues from Slavonia, from HDZ burning, a colleague, 700 thousand acres of unprocessed agricultural land, Slavonia has been evicted, Slavonia is empty and full of the people of your pre-election promises about the project Slavonia. It is not only in Slavonia, it is so in my Dalmatian Zagora, Gorski kotar and other parts of Banovina and other parts. It is a lie and a deception, Croatia is at the bottom after withdrawing funds from the EU, which we need to know during the 7-year period. You simply deceive those people who moved out. It is not funny, 6% of GDP is made of bad policies and your false promises with elections. And I know that the badgers are about to go, they're gonna start digging until the election's over. At least finish those projects. I can call this, at a meeting of the government 3 years ago in Split, almost 4 years ago, which has promised 2 billion kuna projects to Split-Dalmatia County, Dalmatia, a county where the second city is the size of Split and the largest county in the Republic of Croatia. Do you know how many of these government sessions have been implemented so far? Zero. And I guarantee you and I know that the most prospective area for life is the area in the hinterland of Split and other coastal cities. In addition to projects such as highway links that must not be a detour of Dalmatian Zagora, Like and other parts, it must be a link of these parts. For the money they promised could build a fast road to my Sinj. 50,000 inhabitants, Cetinska krajina, more than Ličko-Senj County, an area larger than Međimurje County. And that's the project I've been giving amendments to, but you keep voting against, you and your colleagues from most of the 9th constituency. Along with colleagues from the SDSS where their parliamentary representative is, and that's the mayor. So do you know that there are areas down there that don't have water? You can see from the river Cetina a beautiful place, now called "Croatian Kupres", there is snow, close to Split, a good road, connected, but no water. People don't have water, who's gonna live there? Instead of developing us tourism, it's over 900 meters away, it's close to these cities, so we have huge potential, but you've put us in line, so soon you won't. The people see it. Only when I was last mayoral candidate, dear colleague, you know what's going on, you can't go through, I went to Imotski, you can't get away from the trucks that are paved. To the stakes, to the... They don't even have chickens anymore. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] and important projects just to get you a vote. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's almost a black egg. There's no chicken di opposite. So you know what that means? You from the village. And you're talking about the Slavonia project. Under four million inhabitants in the Republic of Croatia. Politics conducted by the Governments of the Republic of Croatia by two-thirds of the Republic of Croatia's Banovina is only an earthquake that exposed these poor policies. According to two-thirds of Croatia has done more harm than all occupiers from Turks to... And in free Croatia, do you understand what I'm talking about, two-thirds of Croatia is empty, there are no people. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And you come here to praise whom? Yourself? Me? Under these lights. You're counting on that voice of yours to reach these people. There they are in Ireland digging up other people's fields, other people's fields. Ours are under the weeds. And even now you want to ban these people from seed domestically, but it has to be modified so they can market. Instead of our potential as an economic seed, and these O.P.G.s are native old seeds. What's he gonna buy? The pomidor with which the sea plays tennis after two years, GMO pomidor, plant full. 700,000 ha of unprocessed land, and only 0.5% of the agricultural land in the Republic of Croatia has been irrigated. So much for EU funds, Slavonia, Zagori, Lici. You laugh! Parents who send their children from bus stations are not allowed to do so, and children’s cries are not heard in maternity homes.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u27664	Thank you very much. Here's what we're going to do. We're going to take a break, and we're going to clear the hall, and we're going to see you again at 2.30 when we're going to continue with the point with which we started today. Thank you. It's a meeting at 14.20 p.m. The next club of representatives is that of HSS and HSU in the name of which the respected representative Silvano Hrelja will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u27753	Dearly beloved, the pensioner is a lot, more than 1,250,000 people are ahead of the election because then you are potential votes, after the election is the number of weights, the difficult circumstances because then, because then you become hungry mouths, so we have promises so Christmas, and the results are so fast. I myself am burdened with numbers because with demands I turn out to be unrealistic, even unreasonable. I hear a lot of times, and you see the situation. I see. Do the others see the government? The situation is such that the average pension is 38% of the average salary, and nearly half a million pensioners live with less than 2,500 kuna. They're telling me to wait. Retired, I repeat, no time to wait. I am the only representative of the only parliamentary retirement party and the proud voice of those people. I'm trying to be reasonable, but I see a great need and I'm looking for what seems impossible at first, but I'm reminded people must be able to find and help. It's a characteristic of a healthy society. It's mine to ask, and it's theirs to refuse, and I ask or ask 2,500 kuna covid supplement for all who have, once for all who have less than 2,500 kuna pensions and 1,500 kuna bonuses for those who have between 2,500 and 4,000 kuna. It's mine to point out, it's theirs, and you, I'm talking to the government, you can ignore them. Slovenia has not ignored. In a country where the average pension is around EUR 700, it gave to all pensioners with pensions of EUR 714, a covid of allowances ranging from EUR 130 to EUR 300. Serbia, in which an average pension of 1,600 kuna is on two occasions, has given 250 to 300 kuna to its pensioners. And now why should I ask if we can, and I know as well as you know that we must, that we should, help. It's like this world epidemic wasn't enough. The Republic of Croatia has also hit two devastating earthquakes in Zagreb and Bani. This second earthquake hit an area so devastationed and devastated that many wondered what damage the earthquake had caused, and what state? The thing was saved by volunteers and donations, which means there's some room left for the state to jump in. The area of more pensioners than workers will need much more than new roofs and walls, it will take life back to that area, life that was already on the air, which I hope for in the future because I have visited that end and personally became convinced of the whole tragedy. There are now more than 20,000 pensioners living there with an average pension of up to 2,500 kuna. My party's proposal is to make life easier for these pensioners by adding an average pension of 2500 kuna every 6 months of this year because we hope that most of some problems of existence, as regards housing and housing issues, will be solved. The earthquake has revealed a great deal to us about the country we live in and the people we're surrounded by. The state is a little overpriced in terms of the service, where it is needed, there is no, where it is not needed, there is too much, and people are so patient and good that they deserve better from the state, that they deserve a better state and that's why today, the first 21st day of '21. In the 21st century, I claim that the state must be able to help its citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29052	Dear colleagues and colleagues, good morning. As we have announced, today we are going first with the vote and the Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the termination of the conduct of MP Darko Puljasic and the start of acting as deputy representative of Nikola Mažura. The debate has been concluded, and I am voting on the motion for a decision to suspend the parliamentary term of office and to begin acting as deputy representative. Please vote, who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 89 MPs and 89 MPs voted in favour of the decision taken as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. After we've made our decision, we move on to making an oath of counsel. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. Seven. The Rules of Procedure have been established that the President shall read the text of the oath and thereafter, by name, belligerent, the appointed representative shall rise up and pronounce the word ‘I swear’. "I swear by my honor that I will act consciously and responsibly in my work and that I will stick to the Constitution and the law and respect the legal order and that I will stand up for all progress of the Republic of Croatia." Representative Nikola Mažur.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29053	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29054	Congratulations to Representative Mažura and I wish him a lot of success and I wish him a lot of success in the conduct of this important and honorable parliamentary duty. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 11.52 HOURS]] It is next: - Report by the National Attorney General of the Republic of Croatia on the work of the State Attorney's Office in 2019. The applicant shall be the National Attorney General of the Republic of Croatia. 72. Law on State's Attorney's Office. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Justice, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, and the government delivered its opinion. I would now like to ask the proposer's representative to give us an additional explanation. With us is the state's chief attorney, Zlata Hrvoj-Šipek, here you are. You have 20 minutes for opening exposure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29069	Thank you, well-respected Mr. President HS, distinguished MPs and MPs. I will try to present the most important data on the work of state lawyers from the report in 2019. This is not only because the time of exposure is limited but also because of the fact that in the report itself, a detailed demonstration of the work of the state's attorneys through performance and quality indicators is given by the Commission for the Efficiency of the Justice of Europe, on the basis of which the work of the courts is monitored and carried out. This report gives insight into the work of national lawyers in the Republic of Croatia in the scope of their work in total by types of cases and at all levels. You can find the data for each individual state attorney's office, of course the data is available for both USKOK and the State's Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia. In addition to these data, this report also shows the results of the state's attorney's office through the presentation of decisions made, and then valorisation of the quality of our work through court decisions. January 1, '19. started with the work of 3 new municipal state attorneys in Metković, Pazin and Vinkovci so that they were in the Republic of Croatia at the end of '19. A total of 42 state attorneys were established, including the USKOK, which employs a total of 1812 people, which is 2.2% more than a year ago. The state's attorney's office was handled by 636 state's attorneys, and 179 state's attorneys worked on legal affairs. During the year, 16 trainees were employed, which is very commendable I think desirable from the state's attorney's position, but we still find it too small in view of the average age of officials, 69.6% of officials are women. The aggregated data on the movement of cases in state attorneys and labour performance indicators show the movement of both criminal cases and civil and administrative cases through 4g. Since the statistics conducted by the State's Attorney's Office could not provide a representation as the law says during the 5th year. In total, the state's attorneys received 215,000 new cases or 19% more than a year earlier, and in the work of the previous year 50,000 were transferred, let me round up the figures I won't read them to units. So there were over 2266,000 items in the paper, and 219,000 items were solved, which is 14% more than the number of items received. In this way, the number of files in the work of the state's attorney's office has been reduced by 10%. The data presented are related, I must point out, only to cases which are in the works before the state's attorney's office because performance indicators can only be applied to them and to decisions made by the State's attorney. These are decisions shown in the application, indictments, lawsuits, legal opinions. The subject matter in which the proceedings are continued following the decision of the State before the court and the public authorities are shown separately in the tables because the management of these proceedings and their duration does not depend on the State's attorney's office. Data from the state's attorney's information system show that the number of cases in court proceedings and public authorities increased by 16%, so that the number of cases in which the proceedings were conducted or the state's attorney's office took part increased by 8% compared to '18. And it's 451,000 items. I think that's the data that needs to be taken into account when assessing the scope of work and the burden on the state's attorneys. The performance indicators, therefore, applied as I said to the Council of Europe, are based on the number of cases solved in the State's attorney's office, on the other hand on the number of resolutions or persons who were actually present at work, which is 78.3% on the number of legal profession employees and advisers were present at 78.3% on the workplace. Although, in fact, 23% of traffic was received by the resolver more than in '18. 21% of the cases were resolved individually more. As we observe over the years, we see that we have an oscillation of the number of subjects that makes it impossible to talk about trends, but on the other hand, the change in the manner of statistical monitoring has led to certain deviations and inconsistencies, but it is undeniable that at all levels of the state's attorneys, the rate of urgency is increasing, and the time needed to resolve unsolved cases is shortened. When we look at certain types of subject-matter rates and duration times, of course, they differ because they are conditioned by the type of objects, by the complexity of the procedure and at the end of the rules under which the procedure is carried out. The rate, the average rate of duty on the cases in the jurisdiction of the criminal departments, was 102%, and the time needed for solving 113.8% In civil and administrative cases, the average update was 101%, with the time of resolution needed to resolve unsolved cases for 24.7 days, so less than one month. The jump is in '19. In 2017 they received 1553 new items, and they worked 775. They solved a total of 1626 items and the rate of their updates in '18. The year is 105%. At the end of the year, there were 1035 people left without judgment, and unfortunately the trend of increasing the unjudged in '18, which is '18. The year was 958. When we talk about the work of the DORH, it's up-to-date, but we have to admit that it's because of the increased number of resolutionists. The average duty rate is 104%. In total, more cases have been resolved than received, and we need to stress that for the work of all state attorneys, the funds amounting to HRK 354 million were granted, which refers to DORH for 600 million, however, as much as 70% is intended exclusively for the costs of representation in international arbitration. About the penitentiary departments in '19. tells us that the state's attorneys received a total of 35, practically 36,000 criminal charges against known perpetrators. The analysis shows that the total number of celebrities reported has increased due to more criminal charges filed by police. She filed criminal charges against 18 700 celebrities, which is 3100 people more than a year ago. The DORH rejected 18.5% of police criminal charges, while 47% of the 17 thousand criminal charges filed by other citizens, associations, other state bodies were rejected. The reason is that criminal charges filed by the police are justified, supported by facts and evidence, so that a state lawyer can make a decision on the follow-up on the basis of the applications submitted. When it comes to the rejection of criminal charges by the police, the most common reason is that it lies in objective circumstances, which the police could not influence, for example, the compensation for changing the defendant's testimony, the victim's decision to use the grace of non-compliance, the withdrawal of proposals for prosecution, etc. In 2019, a solution was reached on the conduct of an investigation against 4000 persons, which is 450 more than a year earlier, and investigations, namely the duration of the investigation, which are in fact very often and rarely the subject of public criticism, shows that the average duration of the investigation, the average duration of the investigation, is 6 months. Of the 3 664 completed investigation, 12% of the investigation was completed in time to 12 months, 2.6 lasted up to 18 months and only 0.7% of the investigation lasted more than 18 months, or we're talking about 25 cases. The state's attorneys have filed charges against 16800 people, referring to natural and legal persons without minors, and 96.7% of all charges have been confirmed by the court's indictments. The high percentage of decisions on the confirmation of the indictment points to a conclusion on the basis of state-level decisions. In '19. The first-degree courts ruled against 16 200 minors, which is 5.3% more than in '18, but 94.7% of them are judgments, so the level of success compared to the previous year is 3% higher. In this regard, it should be pointed out that at the end of '18 he was eventually in front of the competent courts. 26,700 people left without conviction. In the structure of sanctions imposed on prison sentences, a total of 23% were sentenced, of which 29.9% were replaced by work for the general good at large, while 3 people or 0.88% were sentenced to long-term prison sentences. 72.9% of people were sentenced to parole, and the fine was imposed on 2.5% of persons, and others were left with them. The legal possibility of consensual settlement of criminal cases such as the DORH Agreement Institute with the defendants should also be mentioned here. We received such 402 convictions, i.e. the prosecution with a criminal order, which was done in 6 308 cases. Both, in my assessment, can be used more often than current practice, especially in regular jurisdiction. The best examples are jumping items in which of the 270 verdicts, 61% of them adopted under the agreement of the parties. The reason for the conclusion of the agreement is a faster and more efficient end of the process, a reduction of costs and a large one, and a great savings from the budget. The property benefit was taken away from 829 persons with an amount of 123 and a half million kuna, which is significantly less than 2018, however, the fall is due to the fact that the office, i.e. USKOK, then had an exceptional object with an extremely large amount of seized property benefit of 52 million kuna. The total state attorneys have submitted 547 indictments in infringement proceedings, however, it should be pointed out that the general authority of the municipal state attorney for criminal prosecution is actually a subsidiary nature, which means that criminal prosecution or proceedings are initiated only on the basis of criminal charges when it is concluded that the criminal offence is not committed but that the reported criminal acts contain all the essential features of the legal entity of the offence. The exception is infringements of the Law on the financing of political activities of electoral promotion which are within the jurisdiction of the State Attorney's Office. In the end, if we sum up the work... Data on decisions, should be pointed out that all State Attorneys, including the USCOK in the work on criminal cases, participated in 54 000 hearings and hearings, conducted a study of 12 000 defendants, examined 14 000 witnesses and conducted 11 902 actions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When it comes to certain types of criminal cases, it is more detailed in the written report. I would like to stress that special attention is paid to the work on war crimes, corruption and organised crime as well as on economic crime, as well as on-going phenomena in the emerging forms of hate speech. Let me say something in just a few words about criminal cases or these types of crime. When it comes to war crimes, I must point out that this is about continuous work in the last 30 years. The results of the work in 2019 also point to this continuity. I'm talking about proceedings against almost 3700 people and they've been charged with over 2100 regardless of military or nationality. At this point, we have 594 defendants with no conviction. Despite considerable difficulties in obtaining evidence, all quality information is being checked and efforts are being made to obtain evidence, and we continue to work together with the prosecutors of neighbouring countries, but also with international authorities and use their databases. USKOK has done a very good job in the area of corruption and organised crime, a lot of effort and ambition are being invested. But as you work on complex objects, these results cannot be expected overnight. This is more because the work is burdened by a large number of applications that are very often unfounded, so the structure of the decisions taken tells us that as much as 70% of the rejections are involved. Why so many rejections? For reasons of citizens' complaints against officials who are dissatisfied with their work or decisions, they believe that it is illegal and corrupt work. All relevant suspicions of corruption are carefully checked but BIAK is not a supervisory body that we often lose sight of. I must point out that at the end of 2019, there were no pending reports in the paper showing that he had shown exceptional urgency. Also, after the investigation was completed, USKOK accused 372 people and the accused council of competent courts confirmed 99% of the charges brought. A total of 60 people have been reported for a crime of hate speech or public encouragement to violence and hatred. For the hate crimes committed, the police themselves reported the 46th indictee, and a total of 7 criminal charges were rejected. The courts have reached judgments against 13 persons, one liberating and two refuting. When we talk about the work of civil-government departments, it should be said that the State Attorney's Office is taking legal action to protect the property of the Republic of Croatia through legal representation before domestic courts and public-law bodies, through representation in property disputes before foreign and international courts and bodies, then through judicial dispute resolution and legal opinions. During 2019, civil and administrative departments received 75,000 new items, which is 8.3% more than a year ago. Advocacy before courts and administrative authorities concerned 57,000 cases and an analysis of judicial decisions in litigation shows that according to the value of the dispute is a 63% success. The fall of this success to a certain extent, or to a significant extent, is influenced by the number of equal disputes arising from collective agreements and is then resolved uniformly. The State's Attorney General also represented 175 cases. It is mainly about administrative disputes in which we represent the accused ministries but unfortunately because of limited capacity we are unable to take on more representations although the interest in it is very high. In the structure of court cases, the most represented are executive cases, then litigation and bankruptcy. The litigation cases are increasing due to a number of equal cases that have the character of the dispute, and let us hope that just now the Institute of the View Dispute will introduce the latest amendments to the ZPP, contribute to a level playing field, and these cases will be resolved more quickly. A total of 30 00 hearings were held, 27000 legal medicines were declared. As for the representation of the Republic of Croatia before foreign courts and bodies, I will single out international arbitration in order to protect foreign investment carried out in front of the International Centre for the Resolution of Investment Disputes or under UNCITRAL rules. Nine arbitration proceedings before the IXID and one according to UNCITRAL rules were conducted against the Republic of Croatia in 2019. In these proceedings, the National Attorney General shall coordinate the work, negotiate a defence strategy with law firms representing the Republic of Croatia and provide legal support with regard to the application of domestic law. We collect and analyze the facts essential to the process and conduct coordination. The costs incurred by the management of international arbitration are extremely high not only because of the fees of foreign law firms that are headheaded for our concepts, but also because they are high fees and costs of professional experts, the costs of translation of complete documentation, the costs of witches and arbitarians. I have to point out that he was in April of '19. an arbitration decision has been taken in one procedure establishing that the Republic of Croatia has violated the bilateral agreement...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29070	The respected state's attorneys' time had expired, so according to the Rules of Procedure, 20 minutes was the time to deliver this position. You can now, through replicas and other forms, of course, add to what you wanted to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29071	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29072	Let's go with the replicas, comrade coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29073	I thank the Honorable Mr. President, the Honorable Chief State Attorney, the Honorable Secretary of State. On behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, I seek a break to point out among other things one unacceptable relationship between the ruling majority and HS towards the state's attorney's office due to the fact that we today in January 2021. We are discussing the 2019 Work Report, and we would not be discussing it now if opposition MPs had not collected their signatures with their initiative in order to get this item on the agenda. We read the report and it contains recommendations that would be good to do in 2020, and today it's 2021, we're over a year late. If Croatia had not been Switzerland, it might have been acceptable, if everything was working perfectly in our criminal system, it might have been acceptable, but that is not the case. And for this reason, I am taking this opportunity to condemn, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, such a practice of the ruling, especially when it comes to the report on the work of the Chief State Attorney, but also to the report on the work of the President of the Supreme Court. However, I will take this opportunity to honor the state's chief attorneys to give one criticism to you, and I hope you will listen and take advantage of one of the following opportunities, and you may also report after each debate. In your report, you just listed statistics, you didn't touch the metrics, you didn't come here and you told the representatives, but you also told the Croatian public what you would fix, what you in the system would do better, and what legal changes or tools you need from us employers. to make them available to you. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29074	My fellow coat of arms, thank you very much. The apartment is approved. The state's attorneys are free to sit down now since we have two more, two more requests for a break, so we'll do the replica after that. Comrade Grmo, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29075	Thank you. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the MOST Club so we can consult on this report from which we couldn't find out anything other than that the state's attorney has a wish, will, energy to deal with corruption and crime, and the figures say something else entirely. Croatia is Europe's champion after the perception of corruption, the first one is Slovakia. The problem for Croatia is that Slovakia and the new government are moving towards a systematic reform of the judiciary and has established a special court to monitor the work of the main state attorneys and judges. By now, 15 judges have been jailed, and a former chief of state lawyer in Slovakia has been arrested because a correspondence with criminals was found in his cell. The question is, what if we combed the phones of our top state attorneys? What makes us very sad is that the DORH only takes action after certain media harangs or media stories. About Žinić we all knew everything, I brought here an opposition from Sisak-Moslavina County. A colleague, Lenart, spoke of his house in Zagreb, no one even took a finger, no one did anything. I wonder if you will now again after you have received the green light and will you finally investigate the crime and corruption at the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs that you are protecting under the orders of the Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29076	The apartment will be approved, but I'm still asking for a little selection of qualifications, you speak as if something is true, and for which you have no proof, so please at least a certain fence. My colleague Grumo, please choose a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29077	Your Honor, I'd like to ask you not to violate the Rules of Procedure of HS. This is a democratic Croatian state in which I can speak what I want, the citizens have chosen me for it. If anyone thinks I've said anything falsely, I'm calling on the DORH to launch a prosecution, and I already told you to take off my immunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29078	My colleague Grumo, you have therefore stated that the Prime Minister is in charge of the State's Attorney General. You must attach...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29079	I'm behind it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29080	Okay, all right, I have the right to comment that for that and for such thesis you need to substantiate and evidence, nothing more than that, but a break will be granted to you. Now it's my colleague Dretar's turn, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29081	Thank you, well-respected Mr. President HS, the esteemed Attorney General. On behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club, and I will request a break. There we have also armed ourselves with some, little, more recent statistics that show us that jumping objects in 73.5% are solved by the "party Agreement" institute. As far as organised crime is concerned, 294 convictions have been passed, but only 94 prison sentences remain for general good, conditional convictions and fines. The Department of Homeland Movement's club wants to draw the attention of the Croatian public once again to the fact that the work of justice and fair and proper work is one of the real foundations of every well-organised society and we know that the perception of this particular judiciary and justice in it is extremely low. The fact that an average Croatian citizen has little confidence in institutions, also flows into Croatian reality. When ordinary young men or adults commit and commit crimes, criminal acts knowing that almost in any case nothing will happen to them or will get away with a little punishment. The same thing only on a slightly higher level, the politicians are doing, especially the local ones, so maybe just as we used to call our football courts, it might not be too bad to remind once again that we have a major European prosecutor, Mrs. D.A. Laura Kovesi, who put 1,000 corrupt politicians behind bars in Romania, and there were no settlement institutes in the process. Thank you very much. We're looking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29082	The apartment will be approved for you, too. We have another breach of the Rules of Procedure, respected colleague Vidovic Kristo, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29083	Thank you very much. The breach of the Rules of Procedure concerned you, as I was in the next room, I couldn't report it immediately, so... 238, reprimanding. It is not true that it has not been proven that Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic is running the DORH, it showed that when he brought in a state lawyer, a major transformation of our parliamentary representative, Sauce, who voted for HDZ, followed.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29084	Comrade Kristo, this wasn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure, it was some attempt at replication, so I'm giving you a heads-up. Let's move on now, dear colleague Oreshkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29085	Thank you, Chairman. Here on behalf of the Club of the Center and the Party of GLAS, I am looking for a 10 minute break so that all of us together as parliamentary representatives will consider which direction this debate will take, the report of the main state attorney in my personal opinion is one of the most important reports on which the Croatian Parliament discusses more than the perception of our citizens that corruption is one of the major, biggest and basic problems of our society and there is no more responsible person to fight corruption than the State's Attorney's Department. She would also ask all the clubs and all the MPs to ask themselves when the rule came and how it came to be that the report by the attorney-general came down to statistical data, while reducing the room for manoeuvre to discuss the relationship between different branches of state bodies and that we actually have those main arguments in that report that would help parliamentarians understand where the problems are and how they can solve these problems by their work. I will note here that in this report and also in many previous ones, there are the same parts that point out that only the State's Attorney's Office proposes to the Croatian Assembly to undertake to improve the legislative framework and the same to strengthen capacities within the State's attorney's office, starting with the Office of Independent Financial Researchers, without the Croatian Parliament doing absolutely nothing about it. I won't be saving the state's attorney today, but I'm also going to point to everything that's a failure of this house. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29086	Stanka's been approved to you, too. Comrade Tomasevic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29087	I am looking for a break on behalf of the Green-Left bloc club on the subject of this report in which I would also like you to say what you need to say in order to especially strengthen this fight against corruption and organised crime in terms of legal instruments, in terms of finance and other resources, and in terms of which legislative proposals you propose to reduce the impact of policy on the work of investigative bodies. I believe that it is not a good practice for the perception of DORH independence from the executive government when, for example, Prime Minister Plenkovic said on January 4th that post-war reconstruction should be investigated, then hours after that, the DORH says that USKOK will launch reconnaissances in post-war reconstruction with police. So then the Central State Office for Reconstruction and Residential Care says we can't provide public information about companies that have been doing renovations is it taking an investigation to get the same office to publish that list of companies after all. Also, I don't think it's a good practice for your work that when you press charges against Mayor Požega for example, then the Prime Minister decides to put such a mayor on the list for the Parliament, that he enters the Croatian Parliament, and that we should take off our immunity in the House because he was confirmed by the court a few days after he entered the Parliament. And then finally, we see secretly recorded conversations about how everything is furniture in that city of public affairs. I do not think it is a good practice for your work, for the work of the independence of this institution, and I would like in what way you see that any political influence on your investigation can be reduced and how you see the legal and other instruments that you expect from the Parliament to make it easier for you to have that fight.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29088	Stanka's been approved to you, too. Now it's all yours, pal Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29089	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the HDZ Club for reasons to once again put an emphasis on what it really says in this report. The report is very comprehensive, with a lot of data and actually if we read them, all of what the report says, then we can really wonder if there's a real discrepancy between perception that exists from all of this that we've heard from the MPs from the opposition block and what are the actual facts that they write in this report and give a different picture. We are all aware of the perceptions that exist in society, but not only about the work of the DORH but also about the state of justice in general, but I believe that we are all also responsible for every spoken, public spoken word and that we are all creating this public perception and full times it is created on the basis of some superficial analysis, superficial conclusions, of what is published in the media space which is also i.e. The media are also the creators of public opinion and they should also know that they are responsible for what is being announced. So I'm not saying that there's no, sure there's a gap, but we can't say everything in general and we need to valorize what's good, and on what's not right, we need to specify it and create space to improve it. Also, when you were in power, you held a report from 2012 in debate 2014. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29090	Okay, so this break is approved, but I'll do it in accordance with the article. 293.b continue the debate. We have a lot of replicas, 28 replicas, so like this, I suggest we do replicas by the end of 28 times 2 is 56 and then after that we go to free speech, so we go now with replicas. First up, fellow Sacic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29091	Your Honor, ma'am, the attorney general. I have listened to you carefully, listened and read, informed about your report, unfortunately there is no annex in it, no report on the work of the State Attorney's Council which should certainly be fixed in the future, and therefore I ask you what is the fate, what is the working legal status of your predecessor, Mr. Jelenić's chief state attorney, who proudly praised the Croatian public for taking an oath to the masseuses beyond state and constitutional practices and what attitude do you have in relation to that and whether there are still people in the DORH who declare themselves to the Masons, whether they stand out or not and serve the interests of the Republic?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29092	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29093	Thank you very much for this question. First of all, I must point out that the content of the DORH Labour Report is prescribed by the provisions of the DORH Act adopted in 2018, thus the structure of the report, the data provided by them are prescribed by law and the DORH has no room for change. However, if you have had the opportunity to carefully read the content of the report, then you will find recommendations for the work of the State's Attorney's Office. Homework isn't the subject of the report, so we can't get in. As for my colleague Jelenić, we waited as I said when I entered office first of all that since the Association of Free builders was registered in the Republic of Croatia and legitimately to declare the Ethics Commission whether it was in accordance with the ethical code. That's what I got from my opinion, you know, at 12 months, I was sick of the crown, and the decision will be made soon.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29094	Thank you. Second replica of my colleague Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29095	State's attorney, Šipek. Citizens have great mistrust or the greatest mistrust in the judiciary and the first five things whenever they mention that they mention the judiciary, the judiciary, the judiciary, the judiciary, the judiciary, it stops and the development of the Republic of Croatia, and the DORH is an integral part of the judiciary. And, of course, it's sad and it's a crime that the workers of the Brodotrogier are today from the tycoon of Danka Končar, whom the state co-financed in billions to build shipbuilding, that these workers do not receive wages, and the DORH does nothing, but these same workers had to build their hotels. to restore what he bought with that money that he purposelessly spent. Every year your country i.e. The audit office reports all the criminal acts and sends them to you. What you've done, for example. on the issue of Brodotrogir workers who do not receive salaries from Danka Končar And here's to war crimes? [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29096	Thank you, Comrade Bull. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29097	We put the issue of war crimes in detail in the written part of the report, so we wouldn't. And now at this point here I apologize, I received statistics on the issue of non-payment of salaries in Brodotrogir is within the jurisdiction of the municipal state attorney's office in Split. It's started, now I can't tell you how much time I don't have, how many procedures, a certain number of verdicts have been made, and the rest are pending. I must say that there have also been criminal charges against companies for non-payment of salaries, but those criminal charges have been rejected simply for reasons why these companies have been blocked. Therefore, when there are objective circumstances that make it impossible to pay wages, it cannot be and is not a crime.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29098	Thank you. My fellow coat of arms, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29099	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29100	Just a second, my colleague Bulj is looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29101	Thank you very much. He's been injured. 238. Thank you very much for taking some action to solve this crime of non-payment of wages by the tycoon Danka Končar, and you have thus said that the responsibility of Andrej Plenkovic and this Government is not doing anything about subsidies and restructuring contracts by Danka Končar. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29102	Comrade Bull, you know what follows you, it is a warning. This was no violation of the Rules of Procedure, this is a replica, and in one very inappropriate way you have violated the Rules of Procedure. Please don't do this. My fellow coat of arms, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29103	Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honorable Attorney General. Study report for 2019 I believe I wasn't the only one who noticed a huge increase in the number of cases in municipal state attorneys of 20% or even 30,000 cases more than in previous years. Some particularly enhanced activity in 2019. None of us noticed, so I asked for an explanation for it in the report, and I found it in the next sentence “In 2019. there has been an increase in received and resolved cases due to the introduction of old objects into the CTS information system," therefore due to the entry of old items. So does this mean that the reports we have received so far in which these items have not been entered were not credible? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29104	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29105	Thank you very much for asking. I don't think we can get that conclusion out of the way, but we have to say something else. The development of the state's attorney's information system began in 2009. And then they were experimental introductions at the level of Karlovec, Pula and I can't remember the forgiveness of the third. The implementation of the CTS started in 2013, however, only in 2015. all state attorneys entered and entered the CTS files, given that those cases that had started earlier have always been entered old cases, old statistics or earlier statistics were done on the basis of written registers, and written registers we left with 1 January of '20. when the Rules of Procedure on the work of the State's Attorney's Office have entered into force and now, so that we can have certain, certain discrepancy and inconsistencies can be shown in statistical data when we follow them through the years, but in no way can it be said that the data were incorrect.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29106	Thank you. Comrade Jaksic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29107	Thank you, Mr. President, for the honor of the state's attorney with your associates, your honor, Secretary of State. Rimac, Kovacevic, Curic, Varga and numerous other items and many other names have occupied the Croatian public not only with the weight of the works they are charged with and suspected but also with very often showing reasonable doubt that there has been a crackdown of measures and leaks of information from investigations against those who are under suspicion. We've had a lot of debates about this. My question is whether and what has taken place to see where these measures are firing and what can we do to make it no longer come to this? The second question is about Bania, where there is a legitimate frustration of those whose houses have been torn down, those whose houses have been renovated and the question is given the statements v.d. The president of the high criminal court who initially said that there was nothing there and that there would be either obsolete or hard evidence, do you feel perhaps unacceptable pressure by the judicial authority on the work of the state's attorney?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29108	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29109	Above all, the independence and independence of the state's attorney's office depends on us trying to resist the pressures of all, both executive authorities, legislative but also judicial authorities. Whether it came out of date or not, it's too soon to talk about it because just as the whole story was up to date, we had no idea whether or not the restoration was going on, according to what the time course is and what it refers to. Therefore, we had to approach certain studies to make a decision afterwards. If we're going to go this far, then we won't need any more state's attorney's office, nor will the courts be necessary. As far as leaks are concerned, we are certainly trying to cooperate with the police because these researches must also be conducted by the police, this one to determine how and how the shooting took place. But if we're talking about the Roman case, we can't say that there's been a shooting of measures simply Although we call it so colloquial, we've already made statements about it. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29110	My colleagues, Oreshkovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29111	Thank you, Chairman. Ma'am. Chief State Attorney, I have a very simple question for you, but I'm looking for a true, honest, complete answer without camouflage. And that's actually for this HS most important political and legal issue today. Tell me, are you in private relations with Mrs. O'Donnell? Barack Novosel? If she is, do you know where she is today? And I also want you to answer my question whether you heard yourself on the phone during December, not telling what the content of the phone conversation was, but have you heard from Mr. Ivica Mandic, the owner of MANDIĆ Transport d.o.o., you understand why I ask you this, I assume that you are familiar with the text published by one of our weekbooks, concerning you personally and greatly, greatly affect the perception of the independence of your work. So, do you know Mrs. Crescent? Barica Novosel, yes or no?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29112	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29113	Of course I do. Barica Novosel, given that she is the deputy of the County State Attorney in Zagreb, that before she worked in the state's attorney's office, she was the same as I worked at the State's Attorney's office, then in Jaski, later this one also in county, I know her, we're in good relations. Now, given this whole story, we're making very little contact because I just don't want to get involved. As for 12 months, I have to tell you that I was sick of covid, that I was in the hospital, and Mr. Mandić I don't know at all, I don't have any, my life relationships or professional relationships with Požega, I don't know these people, I know my colleague Koketti, of course because I know him from all these years, and now we've, however, this private or any other relationship I don't have, Mr. Mandić I don't know, I've never heard.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29114	Thank you. Comrade Vucilović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29115	Thank you very much, President. Respected chief state attorneys, the report, if we look at the number of cases, unfortunately confirms that economic crime is reducing in Croatia. The structure of the verdicts, however, suggests that these are mostly conditional judgments, work for general good and fines. It can also be seen that certain measures of blocking property are unfortunately lifted over certain legal deadlines. You point out in the report that you do not have financial investigators or sufficient quality personnel for, for these specialist knowledge required, but on the other hand, the DORH represents public authorities by power in judicial matters and in legal disputes and remains somehow unclear why the DORH is burdened with such cases although there are probably enough lawyers in these institutions, and on the other hand we do not have enough quality economic crime personnel. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29116	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29117	The situation is next, a matter of criminal policy and criminal sanctions is a matter of court's work. Of course, the State Attorney's Office can influence this and try to influence the complaints against the given dishes against the part of the verdict relating to the criminal sanctions imposed. Personally, in that area, I think we need to be even more active and agile because, let me put it this way, criminal policy is what it is. What you said about representing ministries, it's not a large number of cases, it's the reasons, and these are the matters of the jurisdiction of civil-government departments, so administrative cases, administrative disputes. The reason is that we have only 4 specialised courts and 4 administrative courts in the Republic of Croatia and a ministry based in Zagreb can be very difficult to cover both Rijeka and Split, etc., which is why they address the DORH to go to the hearings before these courts to represent the ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29118	Comrade Habib, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29119	Thank you very much, well-respected state attorney. Here, I would refer briefly to this part of your report relating to criminal charges filed, so in 2019 almost 19,000 criminal charges filed by the police, 18.5% were rejected, while of the 17 000 criminal charges filed by others, most of them by the citizens were rejected almost 50%. Therefore, it is clear that half of all criminal charges filed by citizens are rejected, in your report you point out that there are reports which are not supported by evidence, but in particular to apostrophe that is why such applications are actually submitted. Therefore, the question is raised, given that according to the positive rules, a state attorney must act on criminal charges, and even in some cases on anonymous criminal charges, and given this high percentage, therefore rejected in jumping cases by 99%, how much time and capacity are spent on it, or whether some legislative proposals could actually solve this problem and then focus time and capacity there really where it is necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29120	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29121	For years, the DORH has been considering and proposing that, and I think so, fellow judges agree that the Criminal Procedure Act should actually, in fact, write a new law on criminal proceedings, because this is very difficult to apply in practice because of a number of amendments. As far as these rejections of criminal charges are concerned, we are actually talking about reports, it would be more correct to talk about applications than criminal charges because it is often simply written by citizens who because they are not met with expectations, to say or to resolve property-law disputes in a way that does not suit them, then reach for prosecution. However, we must remember that the DORH is not a body of general supervision, is not a body, the main body is responsible for detecting criminal offences and that the DORH plays a completely different role in a democratic country than it was in the '50s.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29122	Comrade Jelkovac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29123	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Respected state's attorney general. The problem of capacitation is also a problem in the DORH, so I'm curious, it seems to me that even with regard to officials, it's a bigger problem than with the deputy state attorney at the moment, so I'm wondering what you're going to do as a top state attorney on this issue and how you're going to solve this problem because we know that without people, we can't even have results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29124	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29125	I must point out that the DORH number of deputies in the DORH is determined, determined on the basis of the 2001 framework criteria. After 20 years we have received indicative criteria for deputies, and the number of employees is determined on the basis of the number of deputy state attorneys. Since last year the new Rules of Procedure changed the way the cases were monitored, we are now in the process of making a proposal for the Ministry of Justice to assess the number of deputies needed. We hope that soon, that we will be able to do so soon, the minister will bring that assessment which would then be the basis for further employment and, of course, we hope that support from the Ministry of Justice will also grant us employment. Especially the problem with the USCOD as far as officials are concerned.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29126	Comrade Mlinarić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29127	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Attorney General. He'd ask a question about war crimes. In addition to dry numbers in the report and incomprehensible things, I would ask you a specific question. Why DORH never prosecuted Operation Vukovar through a court dispute, where it would open from the pyramid, means worse than the political summit, the JNA military summit and to the smallest details. It wouldn't happen to you every few months or once a year if you caught a couple of small ones, like in the Negoslavs people, and after 15 days of prison investigation, you were released. If you had done that, not you, and before you who were, the entire operation of Vukovar, everything from water to the smallest of these perpetrators would have been covered.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29128	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29129	Thank you. I won't be able to answer that question because at the time I wasn't the state's chief attorney and I wasn't dealing with that kind of thing. But I believe that the proceedings would have been initiated if there had been enough evidence, enough elements, or that these persons were also witnesses who would have been in the Republic of Croatia. What my intention is as a state attorney, and this may now be something that may not be the time to talk about, is the question of how I think about reorganizing the work of state attorneys related to the processing and work and the detection of any war crimes, the concentration of actually working on four specialized state attorneys and those departments that should definitely, within a very short time, personnel teams. As time goes by, we're all aware that it's getting harder and harder to collect evidence and work on these items.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29130	What basis, colleague Mlinaric? It was a flat, so we can't do that. Comrade Peovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29131	Good afternoon. For a question about Brodotrogir, you said the verdicts were made at the County Court in Split. It is true that workers have filed criminal charges for non-payment of salaries. They, however, were rejected, for having repeated this, justified that companies are in a blockade because they have no money. Hundreds of Brodotrogir workers have not received their salaries since July 2020, but the blockade cannot be an excuse. It's an offended practice. So it's 5. Three companies went bankrupt, and the same workers were transferred from one company to another. At the same time, the same Končar bought shares at the Medena Hotel in Trogir, and he did not respect the contract that obliges him to have 60% of the Brodotrogira in it, and only 40% of the luxury Marine that is in his only interest. Therefore, the DORH In this case, he must react. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29132	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29133	We're talking, you mentioned Brodosplit in your presentation. The question refers to Brodotrogir and the company owned by Danko Končar. First of all, the Commercial Society Act is not, separates the company's owners and shareholders from the company's own obligations. That's one thing. I didn't say he made the county court, I said how many decisions it was, here I am now trying to find again, but I'm sorry, I can't keep it short, I can tell you later how many decisions have been made. The state's attorney's office, whenever there's evidence, of course, that they try to collect themselves, and this triggers a criminal procedure if all the legal procedures are met, so to speak, or prove it, are determined to be, the crimes will be carried out. Here, I can't tell you anything else.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29134	Comrade Bencic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29135	Thank you. Respected, in this report, there is not one of the key information needed to actually monitor the DORH's work, and to understand the better situation, it was a question that should have been a key question of the work of the investigative committee, which is whether there are and how political pressures are detected by the work of the state attorney and their employees, so I am now asking you here, given that you were able to report on this because the Law on the State's Attorney's Office says that you can also report on the situation in the judicial system and on the problems you are facing, and I believe that this is one of the problems, so please directly answer us here whether there were political pressures against the state's attorney, in which they have been detected and how many criminal charges have been brought to the judicial officer in 2019 and 2020.? Thank you. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29136	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29137	In our report, we made some recommendations and talked about the problems we face. Maybe here I'll accept this as a constructive suggestion that at the end of the report in '20. which is going to be the first report I'm going to write and for which I'm responsible as the state's chief attorney because we're talking about '18. when the attorney general was actually a colleague of Jelenic's. In that case, you might actually concentrate this in one particular part of the law that changes because by reading this you'll see that we're looking for investigators to realize that we're too little... that we need the number of people, we propose amendments to the CAP or the Criminal Procedure Act, etc. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] These are all proposals that may be hidden in the text of the report, not concentrated in one place. I accept that as a suggestion for the next one, for the next report. And as for the pressure against justice, I think I'm going to tell you this, criminal charges are gone, and that the state's attorney's office is daily and I am currently as all my predecessors are exposed to the pressures that, read the media because everything expensive turns out that actually the moment something was published in the media is ruled out, no longer needs courts, no need of the state's attorney. So that's it, that's it. the forms of pressure on the state's attorney's office. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29138	Thank you very much. I let go of the time because it was very important for you to say this, but I'm asking you to stick to it for a minute. A colleague of Vidovic Kristo, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29139	Ma'am. State's attorney, this report of yours has nothing to do with the real situation. Here's an example I'll give you. On 22 July 2013, a civil activist against corruption, Tomislav Jelic, reported to the DORH that he personally witnessed the meetings of Ivan Turudic, then the president of the County Court in Zagreb and Srecko Ferenček, the chief secretary of HNS, who was tried for heavy corruption during their meetings at the county court. In any other EU member state due to this fact, such a judge would be suspended and would be removed from court duty. The private meetings of the President of the Court with the man on trial are totally unacceptable, in democratic denials they are inconceivable, on whose orders the DORH did nothing. Are you aware that you are also in the DORH for concealing criminal acts in the area of illegality? And please don't talk about you not being in office at the time because all those exes are still in your DORH. So it's extremely unprofessional to talk about that it couldn't have been put into this report. Because all these people are still working as your deputies today. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29140	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29141	A colleague, Jelenic, when he was relieved of his duties as chief state attorney, was no longer working in the office and could not write that report, but I wrote it and signed it as the first deputy attorney general. As for your question regarding your colleague Turudic and his behaviour, so it is a matter of the court and the DSV because it is primarily a question of the ethical code of conduct and conduct. Therefore, they should have done so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29142	Comrade Tomasevic, here you go. Well, colleagues Kristo, no injuries to the Rules of Procedure, you may not like the answer, but you can't, there's no procedural harm here, you'll get a second warning. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29143	So there's a violation of the Rules of Procedure. In 238, the demeaning of parliamentary deputies, the few of us here have commented that this is a matter of criminal responsibility. It has nothing to do with the DSV. You are in this way, in fact, manipulating both us and the Croatian public. It was a criminal act of high corruption.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29144	Please, I ask you to sit down, it's no disrespect to the MPs. I don't know what demeaning means to you. This is the answer of the person in charge of this problem. And please don't do that, you get a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29145	If I could just give you a second.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29146	Unfortunately no, you can through the other answer touch that. Here you go, pal Tomašević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29147	Thank you. Well, my question is about that Krsh-Paden case. Namely, when we had a debate in HS about the impeachment of Minister Ćorić about what was among the first things he did when then the new Minister of Environmental Protection was that he had annulled the former ministry's solution regarding the assessment of acceptability to the environmental network precisely for the Ve Krš-Padene project and when I asked him why he did it, he said he had done it in consultations with the DORH. When I asked him if there was a written clue about it, between the DORH and the ministry, he said he didn't know, when I asked him if it was first initiated to make the solution so that no harm would come to the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry or the DORH said the same thing he didn't know. I'm also interested in this particular case, but I'm also interested in your practice, is there a written clue in such a situation where the DORH recommends that someone in the executive authority cancel some kind of document so as not to cause material damage to the Republic of Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29148	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29149	The DORH, or part of the DORH involved in the protection of property interests, may give or give legal opinions and provide legal assistance to competent authorities in the work and in this case. The DORH took part in a meeting organised between the Croatian Forests and the Ministry of Agriculture, with two meetings there are clearly expressed views on investor obligations. The meetings are held on official notes as a rule, very rarely will happen unless something is very short, just as instructive is not to be guided, and the opinion is sought or given in the case of opinions and written requests. ... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I can't deal with that right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29150	Col. Tomašević, please... /The speakers speak at the same time./... you have a minute you still have the possibility of replicating or individual speech so you have the opportunity. Here you go, colleague Baričević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29151	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Respected state's attorney. We've heard from other colleagues that investigating and processing war crimes is actually a topic that still affects our country. Not all crimes have yet been investigated, many indictees have not been brought up, so I'm curious to know that 594 defendants have been convicted without conviction, I'm curious to know exactly how many charges are being made here in these cases of 594 that you said they were charged? You said you were going to reorganize the work, and it seems to me that it's quite late to reorganize the work and staffing because the victims and the perpetrators have their own lifetime, so I think it's pretty late. She'd still ask one more question if I could, do you think it's necessary to narrow down the jurisdiction of the USKOK to investigate the most complex crimes?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29152	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29153	I'll start from the end, think I need to narrow down the jurisdiction of the Uskok, and we've made a proposal to change the USKOK Act, that's one thing. As far as criminal or war crimes are concerned, I draw attention to the fact that on our website or on our DORH website, there are data on all the procedures that have been initiated, and the state's attorneys working on these cases on current events, therefore, regularly inform them. Unfortunately, these items are hard to say now, but the information if you're interested I'm asking you nicely as a parliamentary representative you can ask for I'll give you an answer as to how many cases are being done. The good part of the defendants isn't actually in the Republic of Croatia, they're inaccessible to our courts. Something has begun to change the practice of courts in conducting trials in absentia, but before that was excluded.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29154	Thank you. Comrade Lenart, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29155	Thank you, Your Honor. Often police officers can say that DORH is the narrow throat of law enforcement, i.e. Processing, often it is evident that these investigations can be contaminated. An example in Sisak-Moslavina County that the head of the Sisak-Moslavina County Police Administration is staying in Top-Termama Topusko for free, and then he owns the county after 6 months of paying the bill leads to doubt that he is raising officials of Sisak-Moslavina County against whom even there are some investigative actions that have been carried out for a long time and do not come anywhere. And this last thing that's going on, will you make sure everything is legal in the case of Ivo Žinić and the property and everything that's been written in the media these days and what's being discussed?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29156	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29157	Accountting whether it is, putting up an account should go from Top-Terma, given that Topusco was somewhere and my formerly in Karlovac County then I know some things, however whether it is the influence of the county or this is very difficult to speak. Of course everyone can say and transfer responsibility to another, so for the sake of bad police, for the sake of bad DORH, the defenders are perfect, the prosecutors are bad I think it's an eternal story, an eternal topic, an eternal way of defense. What was the last thing you asked me to do? ... Žinić, Žinić, as soon as we learned about this we received information from the County State's Attorney's Office in Sisak, we checked the items he has in the work of the Civil Administration Department which gave opinions on the draft contracts, and, of course, according to the fact they are being considered and will act accordingly, so more so at this point, and other bodies have begun to deal with research. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29158	Thank you. Comrade Katičić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29159	Mr. Chairman. She's a colleague of the state's attorney general. So here I'm going to use the first few sentences to praise this report, I think it's also comprehensively comprehensive and gives very clear and exact indicators, indicating additional efforts in the institutional work of your institution that I think is very important. My question is, do you believe that the adoption of a new Law on DORH and the Law on State Property Management has contributed to a faster and more efficient operation of the DORH in particular in the work relating to the resolution of property and property management owned by the Republic of Croatia, which I think is the same important part, a segment rather than just a criminal part of the DORH department that works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29160	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29161	Thank you for that question. In any case, I think that on the one hand, the Law on the State's Attorney's Office, which extended the possibility of competent authorities, and so the bodies managing state property, to ask questions and assistance, is the real help of the State's Attorney's Office, because we have actually witnessed that over the years the regulations have changed so much that it is very difficult to establish continuity now and actually to see which regulation has been applied, for example, here is what the esteemed representative mentioned, because it is actually now about the application of the 2005 regulation, it is not about the current regulations that are now in place. I think it's to protect property and resolve property-legal relations, that it's actually a very important issue right now, which will be particularly relevant to the reconstruction of Banovina, and I think we have a lot of space here and we're going to have to work very hard together.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29162	Comrade Simičević, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29163	Here's your thanks, Mr. President. I think it is extremely important that all war crimes be prosecuted for the rule of law and for the sake of the victim, so I will not ask you about the crimes or charges you have brought, but rather how do you cooperate with the aggressor Republic of Serbia in the detection of war crimes committed on the ground of Croatia? And my second question is, do you, as the chief state attorney, now have all the resources in your hands and can you do a quality and good job of doing this demanding job because we know that there are really huge criticisms to the work of the judiciary in the Republic of Croatia? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29164	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29165	Thank you very much. As for the resources that we have, I must say, I think in the Republic of Croatia, we have an organization in a way that actually the resources for the work of the State's Attorney's Office are approved by the Ministry of Justice or leaving the state budget, so we don't just have the money we own, we have and we use for those purposes and purposes that we at some point think we need. As for war crimes and co-operation with Serbia, it is to say, the former term to use peaceful co-existence because it is actually about things where they, we ask them for information about where people are and this, some times answers, some times not, but they are very often ready to ask us for information about people and much less are willing to return the data. But in any case, these data we're exchanging has no power of evidence but actually directs us in which direction we go with further research.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29166	Comrade Nadj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29167	Thank you very much. It is therefore noted that in the DORH there is a age structure of officials between 60 and 65, that none of the lawyers are younger than 30 years and only 16 trainees are employed. If this trend continues, we will soon have DORH without state lawyers and as we can see, corruption and crime in the Republic of Croatia continues. You said you hoped to support the Ministry of Justice, but isn't it time for some structural changes to be made in attracting personnel to the State's Attorney's office not only legal professions but also financial, tax and similar professions? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29168	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29169	The fact that the data you have presented is true, it is true, very soon in the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia will arrive at the shift of generations, yes, but on the other hand I hope there will be enough people who will be able to take over from the level of county state attorneys who already have a rich experience in dealings with the National Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia. As far as employment is concerned, it's very difficult for you to become a deputy state attorney, so you have to finish law school and be a trainee for two years and then pass a judicial exam and then go to a state school for two years, and then pass a state school exam, and we actually come to the fact that with some 30 years of age they become people, they can become deputies for the first time. Of course, it's much easier and easier to go straight to law school and be a good defender with good incomes.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29170	My colleague Jackov, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29171	The distinguished state's attorney, one of the citizens' main objections to the DORH, which is true to your predecessors, is the poor communication of the DORH to the public. Do you think that better communication towards this public would be a good way to restore the shared trust of the citizens to the DORH, and what is certainly crucial for the functioning of all state institutions and, of course, the DORH?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29172	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29173	Thank you very much. Yeah, I think we have a lot of space in the State's Attorney's Office, and we personally have a lot of space that we can open up to make our communication with the public and the transparency of work better. One of these things may be direct communication, but the other part is what is currently being done and the portal is developing because our website is on such an old and bad base that it's only a matter of time before it crashes, so we won't be able to give even minimal information to citizens in this way. I hope so, too, you said I hope, I hope and believe, not only do I remain on hope, but I also believe, given the support expressed by Minister Malenica, that we will also solve this issue and that, as the courts have received a new portal for information, we will also get closer to the public, here.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29174	Comrade Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29175	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Your Honor, ma'am. Hrvoj Šipek, so here we know that often the State's attorneys, municipal or county authorities did not have very good working conditions, so here they are after a few decades, there they have been able to work in better conditions. What is very important, this report of yours is very exhaustive and the report itself says that this is the first time that in this way you show actually indicators and through the movement of these performance and quality indicators actually show data. Well, even though some colleagues think it's just statistics, but it's very important that you could do it this way, the more the Council of Europe actually serves, the more that is the criterion that we are in the system itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29176	Thank you. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29177	So, USKOK waited 18 years to solve his space, he was a tenant in the DORH building on Gaje's street, we still have several State's attorneys, it's listed in the report, so I won't repeat those problems. Of course, one part of the problem is such a nature that it actually takes construction or new buildings or upgrades so that there are objective reasons why some State's attorneys can't be adequately solved. As far as the performance indicators and the assessment of the work of the State's Attorney's Office are concerned, I dare call on the European Commission's opinion on the state of justice in Europe and so on in the Republic of Croatia where they assess the work of the State's Attorney's Office and the USKOK with success and positive and say that the results of work and perceptions are in fact completely contrary to the actual data.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29178	Comrade Pavić Željko, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29179	Dear state attorneys, in your report which is towards and always extensively stated that the number of labour disputes has increased because workers or the state has problems with its employees. I can't agree with you here because I would rather say that actually employees have problems with the state as an employer since the state signs a collective agreement and after that does not respect the provisions of that collective contract. Namely, this interpretation which is stated in your report that the employer interprets in one way and the worker in another way does not quite stand, given that there are commissions that interpret the collective contract and in that commission are actually representatives and employers and trade unionists. So what is interpreted as such should actually be respected, however, goes to courts, these courts lose their disputes, and then, with that basis, they actually attribute both interest and court costs. Why is this part of the state’s property interest not included in preventing such disputes?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29180	Thank you. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29181	This is about, since it is about disputes that are part of collective agreements, which are actually not interpreted by the Commission, and what creates a problem why the State's Attorney's Office doesn't make deals is that we had a situation that different county courts took different views. If I were to be accepted by one who goes in favour of workers and vice versa, you would be in favour of the state, then it would be an inequality of citizens, given that citizens in the area of jurisdiction of the second county court have lost their rights. That's why I said in my report that I welcome the introduction of a review dispute that has come because it gives the possibility that when a dozen objects appear from the same factual and legal basis, the county court is skipped, the Supreme Court takes up a session of positions which is then a guideline for lower courts. That way it'll be faster and even court practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29182	Comrade Lukacic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29183	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear State Attorneys, your report shows that the State Attorney's Office has achieved a high level of efficiency, so more cases have been resolved, less unresolved and I'm sure you and your associates are doing everything to improve these good indicators and not just keep them, so don't stay at this level. But I want to know if you can tell me if you have this information at this point, how many people with disabilities do you have and how much are you actually able to do, how much as an institution you're able to do, given the kind of job you're actually hiring people with disabilities and what are you doing on that plan? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29184	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29185	Thank you. Here, I'm sorry, but I can't give you the data as much as we hire a disabled person. Employment opportunities depend on what jobs are, right. If it's a matter of officials, then there are far wider employment opportunities for people with disabilities. But the thing is that very few people even apply to ads with job openings in the State's Attorney's Office and among them disability, people with disabilities are practically gone. Which is why, I find it very difficult to say, but in any case, the state's attorney's position is people with disabilities can do jobs without problems according to their limitations physically they have, there's room anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29186	Comrade Petyr, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29187	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. Ma'am. State's attorney, here's a recent full year from the infamous statement by Cresa Beljak that UDBA didn't kill enough people. This same representative, who is also the mayor of Samobor, has been indicted by witnesses and these documents have been sent to the State Attorney's Office a few years ago, to draw money from the city's budget for obtaining personal benefit together in connection with one entrepreneur, the same representative who is also the president of the HSS has been charged by members of the presidency and the main committee that has falsified the minutes and this is also according to their claim to the DORH so I wonder if you have acted in the Beljak case, if not, are you planning because these are really serious accusations that deserve clarification in the Croatian public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29188	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29189	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29190	Excuse me, State's attorney, just a second, please. I beg you, colleague Pavic and colleague Mrak-Taritash. Here you go. Go on.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29191	Your question actually concerns specific items, and I wouldn't talk about them, I know that in any case this, all the reports that, whether they're criminal or this, DORH is analyzing and considering, although in one of the ones you mentioned a decision has been made, and for others I have no information, or I have no knowledge, I have to admit. .../incomprehensible/...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29192	Comrade Vlasic Iljkić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29193	Thank you. Thank you. Whether there were any political pressures on the operation of the DORH in the case of Puljasic as it has been more than 10 months since the release of the footage during April and May 2020. The question is, would anything have been done if the video hadn't come out in the media? We know that Puljasic is no longer a parliamentary representative, the City Organisation of the HDZ in Požega is disbanded, but he is still mayor as his deputy mayor. These days, they're performing public duties, the deputy's taking garners, and none of them have reported to the media about the footage case. Isn't it suspicious that certain actions began to take place only after the video was released? The head of the HDZ County Organisation, Željko Glavić, allowed such a man to be on the list of HS candidates, and Prime Minister Plenkovic also looked kindly at all the works of Puljasic despite all warnings from the field.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29194	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29195	Your question refers to the recent subject, but I must tell you that it is not true that it was posted after the videos were published, that then the DORH and the BUSKOK began to work. It was a long time ago, and the tape came out a lot later. It's simply not true, and as far as who's in charge is concerned, it's not the DORH thing and we're in that part, it's someone else's decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29196	Thank you. Comrade Demetlik, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29197	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State. With the constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the DORH is a body that takes legal action to protect the interests of the Republic of Croatia. I ask the question, does this also refer to cities and municipalities as an integral part of the public sector? For what reason am I asking a question? Namely, in your comprehensive report, we lack data on the number of court proceedings that the DORH on behalf of the Republic of Croatia leads against cities and municipalities, and regarding the property. By order of the DORH, the Republic of Croatia is enlisted through courts on property, whether buildings, parks, land, which cities and municipalities were registered in an orderly manner in '93. and after 10, 15 years of states, i.e. The Republic of Croatia is registered without the involvement and introduction of units of local self-government. So I ask that the section in the report be expanded, if possible and precisely by county and with which cities and municipalities you have court disputes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29198	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29199	We can process these disputes although I personally believe that the Republic of Croatia, as well as the units of local self-government and regional self-government as a person of public law, should not be in court, but that it would be very good if a single body were to be formed in agreement. What you're talking about, it's actually a question of Istria and the fact that the municipalities and cities of Istria did not, after the entry into force of the Law on Local Self-Government, enter into agreements on the division of assets, and the obligation of the DORH and the DORH was to do so by official duty, by no order of the executive authority, and I think that the problems that Croatia has today and with investments, and everything is precisely because it has not been executed, no property relations have been resolved and we are still dragging back socialist arrangements and registrations. The moment you can't make a deal, the DORH has no choice but to press charges.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29200	Comrade Grmo, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29201	Thank you, highly respected attorney general. Yesterday, at a meeting of the Justice Committee, you first kept your mouth shut, and then denied that you had received information with suspicions that diplomats with the help of forged documents allowed, meaning a certain, relatively significant asset to the ambassador's wife in Australia. Documents have arrived at the Assembly to confirm that you received that information half a year ago. The applicant has even offered you several times to question him, which the DORH has not done and here I can only conclude that you are cheating on the public, and if you continue with this deception, I will have to rent some either billboard or something similar near the DORH with your character and with all this information and documents you have obtained. Please comment on what you said yesterday and what you intend to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29202	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29203	I couldn't remember that information yesterday because it was a whole series of information that made me as the new state's chief attorney and I'm actually sorry I didn't think of it, but I just can't keep that much information in my head. And as for the applicant of the application, I think that the proceedings were conducted, he was well-informed, he was called to the DORH or USKOK to declare his submission, I now have complete information here, but definitely this minute for the replica is not enough for me, therefore, we can discuss it, and it seems to me that this question was also asked to former state attorney Drazen Jelinić about, who said that it was discussed on the Anti-Corruption Council and in fact there is no, according to what was delivered to the DORH, there are no elements for the prosecution.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29204	Comrade Dark-Taritash, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29205	Thank you very much, esteemed president of HS, the esteemed state's attorney. You really have one long-standing experience in the DORH, and I'm not going to say any news, that's what we all know is that our situation in the judiciary is the perception of the public that one of our major problems is the situation in the judiciary. And the perception of the public indicates that we have all the bright stage on certain cases when we arrest people in custody, and then those in two, three, or how many months in custody, come out and lasts a long time until the charges are even filed, are accepted and the process begins. I'm asking you because you have one part of the report that is the recommendation, so we can only do it together, the judiciary, we parliamentary deputies to run something, and that's why I've told you your long-standing experience. What to do, what to do, what tools to have in hand and use them to simply not be so because if they don't, then the perception of the public will certainly be a little different.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29206	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29207	The most complex items are from the jurisdiction of the USKOK, we have two things, one thing is to narrow down the jurisdiction of the USKOK and that a good part of the criminal cases that are so to say at least at the lower value to transfer to the work of regular state lawyers, of course county attorneys, that's one thing. The other thing is that USCOCK personnel are teamed up and primarily employees because given the rights that the Criminal Procedure Act gives to the defendants, the right to insight, the right to review, the right to everything together we don't have enough employees to do it. The indictments are written by the vice principals themselves, therefore it is not easy at all. We need investigators, and what we also said at the beginning in the protection of human rights is built in a lot of things in the Criminal Procedure Act, he's had a lot of changes and I think that we need a new Law on Criminal Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29208	Thank you. And the last replica of my colleague Troscott. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29209	Respected state's attorney general. I would very specifically, I found one finding in the State Audit report for the City of Zagreb and then I am interested in how you process it. So it's about the budget of the City of Zagreb where 2018 is. one member of the commission, who is an independent electrical installation expert, says 4.5 million kuna here. However, what they have found is that some documents have been found for these electrical installations that indicate that the expert worked over 4,000 hours a month, seriously. So if we take that month to be 31 days, 24 hours it's 744 hours if a man doesn't sleep and he's paid off on that basis over 6 million kuna gross and says that to repay the funds for the City of Zagreb's budget this case was sent to the competent DORH, can you please plead on that matter?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29210	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29211	I have no knowledge. I have no information regarding a specific case. Otherwise, as far as the State Audit findings are concerned, the State Audit, after the parliamentary procedure has passed, submits its report to the DORH, and we bring it down to competent state attorneys who would then, on the basis of the State Audit findings, just need to know one thing, the State Audit, as a rule, writes that it has detected irregularities, this, that. There's no evidence we have to, then it's our indicator, so then we have to go into research and collect documentation based on which we can initiate the proper procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29212	I thank everyone, and I thank the state's attorney. It's over with the replicas so you can go back to your seat. Now we're going to move on to club talks and independent representatives, and with this point, we're going to continue at 2:30. So now it's a free speech so a short break at 2:30 we continue and this will be the presentation of the government's representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29213	[[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 14.30 A.M.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29214	Thank you, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected MPs and MPs. So, in the report that the state's attorney today explained in detail for your needs, the data is based on which a complete picture of the work of the state's attorneys at all levels can be created. Despite the conditions of the work of state-level attorneys and officials, a high degree of urgency, quality and success in handling state lawyers has been maintained at all levels. The new Law on State Attorney's Office and the Law on the State's Attorney's Council entered into force on 1 September 2018 and the Law on Areas and Headquarterss of State Lawyers on 1 January 2019. In a different way, these laws have regulated the work and organisation of the State's Attorney's Office, but have also changed the structure and territorial competence of municipal state attorneys. Therefore, in 2019, the State Attorney's Office was engaged in the implementation of those laws, which required the adoption of a series of acts of permanent, temporary transfer of state attorneys, officials, reference to work in another state attorney's office and the transfer of the case to newly established state attorneys both physically and through the CTS information system. It is a new system that has been applied for the last four years and that is the standard of the Council of Europe, which is monitored through all relevant parameters by the work of national lawyers. And on those parameters, this report is also envisaged. It's almost fully informed. The State Attorney's Office actively participated in the adoption of sub-legislative regulations, primarily the Rules of Procedure of the State Attorney's Office and the framework criteria for the work of deputy state attorneys, which will require the development of a new system of statistical monitoring of the work of officials in order to contribute to the uniform application of the law throughout the Republic of Croatia. Although the data presented on the work of the State Attorney's Office indicate a high level of urgency in the work of the State's Attorney's Office and success in the conduct, the Government of the Republic of Croatia considers it necessary to take additional measures and activities in the coming period to further increase the efficiency in the work and significantly shorten the time of decision-making. It is necessary to ensure the highest level of effectiveness in all cases with particular emphasis on war crimes and hate crimes. Given the existence of great public interest in the work of the State Attorney's Office, and in order to strengthen trust in judicial institutions, we support more active communication on the work of the State's Attorney's Office, respecting the relevant legal provisions and not jeopardising its independence and independence. The government of the Republic of Croatia gives a positive opinion on this report and proposes that the Croatian Parliament accept this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29215	Thank you very much. We've got a few replicas on your exhibit. He's the first respected representative of Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29216	State Secretary, as I said to the state's attorney in Croatia, the people have the greatest mistrust in the judiciary. And the first five things when they list Croatian citizens who would then count others, but all five are the judiciary. The state's attorney's office as part of the justice system, so it's got a bad perception. What you as a government, as a representative of the government, have taken to make such things change, not to be too much of the influence of politicians and politics that together our prime minister does not hold press with state lawyers, that hands are not bought in the Croatian Parliament, as Mayor Bandic said. It means what you have done in the EU that you are calling for means what you have done in the EU that you are calling for and the biggest mistrust from all countries in the EU and also in Europe is in the justice system in Croatia. What do you suggest we don't?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29217	Thank you very much. The answer of the respected representative Martinovic, State Secretary pardon.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29218	Honorable representative, therefore perception is present, perception is important. However, when analyses are being carried out after this general perception that corruption is also present in the Croatian judicial authority because here we are talking about the judicial authority or the State's Attorney's office, then after this initial perception of the impression when it comes to doing a deeper analysis of who participated in these corrupt processes, then we stand better than many EU members. Of course, that doesn't make me happy. I have to say here for this speaker and you know that Croatian society, Croatian government and this one have built a jumping vertical from the police, through the State's Attorney's Office to courts dealing only with corruption and organised crime. This has produced results, and these results can be seen in this report as well. Of course, as I said earlier, the government's position is that there's still room for progress.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29219	Thank you. Dear representative Bencic has the next line.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29220	Thank you. Respected when I asked the prime minister here just two months ago if he considered it adequate that in the budget for implementation of the Anti-Corruption Strategy, he reserved only 14 and a half thousand kuna for the whole year for the entire Republic of Croatia then said he considered it adequate because the fight against corruption was funded in the positions of the DORH. And now that we look at what the main State Attorney's Office or the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia has at its disposal from the funds, then we see that out of 103 million kuna, 82 million kuna is spent, so 80% is spent on representing the Republic of Croatia in arbitration procedures, international arbitration. And that less than 20% have the means to prosecute perpetrators of criminal offences, protect the property of the Republic of Croatia and bring legal remedies to protect legality. So tell me, do you think 20% of the funds are enough to achieve all those objectives of fighting corruption that we've given ourselves?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29221	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29222	Dear MPs, so the figures are misleading. The numbers are tricky. To talk about 20% if you read a more detailed report there you saw that one huge part of that amount going to pay expensive international arbitration. So this part you're talking about about the small amount left for corruption in the budget, of course the prime minister is right not to fight corruption only on that segment where NGOs have given such an amount. So now I've told you about vertical anti-corruption, which is a vertical that goes from the police to climbing through the state's attorney's office and courts specialized in four Croatian centres. They give results, but not enough for you and my satisfaction to the citizens. We'll fix it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29223	The next replica of the esteemed representative, Mariana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29224	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. Article 18 The general declaration of human rights is intended to protect freedom of religion, conscience of expression. We see that in some European countries this right is so disrupted that it even goes towards terrorism and radicalism. We had a situation here when the Civil Protection Staff made some decisions on restrictions on public gathering where, during the holidays, it was, of course, allowed to maintain sacred Masses and visit them, so some public persons, several of them called for the liquidation of believers, the destruction and burning of churches, the killing of priests, and there were other similar phenomena. I wonder if you believe that today's Penal Code provides a sufficient framework for the State's Attorney's Office to act in such situations, because I have noticed that in fact the State's Attorney's Office has not taken any of these posts and calls for the liquidation of the believers and the destruction of the sacral objects undertaken any activity.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29225	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29226	Dear MPs, I'm not sure this question that goes towards me would go into this area of the State's Attorney's Office's work for 2019 but I will say as a lawyer and as a lawyer, of course in all segments we have room to advance. So, these new forms of crime, new incriminations that enter our legal order at this time as we are a member of the EU but before in accession negotiations bind us, oblige us to educate state lawyers, police officers and courts, judges in such cases. But in the government's eye on this report, I said that the emphasis of our activities will work on better processing of war crimes and hate crimes.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29227	The next replica of the respected MP, Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29228	Good afternoon. I'd like you to answer what's going on with the officers and the tenants of the jump departments in the county courts. Namely, these are workers who carry out a very serious activity, they are under constant first-degree security checks. Often, they are in contact with the perpetrators of the most serious crimes, but they are not provided with a raise, so a 15% salary increase due to the character of the work that judges have received. They're in 2019. After a protest in February, a promise was made to get that salary increase, a regulation that would allow it to still be made, and during that time the judges were raised by 6% means they had money. So the question is when and why hasn't this regulation been passed yet? When will it be brought?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29229	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29230	Your Honor, I'd like to say I agree with you. The problem is also present at the Ministry of Justice, which in a consistent way creates the problem. It is well known to all of you and to me that there is not too much money in this society, but it is known to everyone that these people are but even in the Croatian administration of people, officials, tenants, therefore lower-ranked people with lower professional qualifications, and even with VSS they are poorly paid. You're right. So, the Ministry of Justice will certainly, so I personally guarantee you during this year to improve the standard for officials and tenants who work in this jump-off vertical since the fact that they are more stable and exposed, but also subject to much more stringent checks when establishing a working relationship. We are always afraid when we talk about the budget that Pandora's boxes are not being opened, because the Ministry of Finance always jumps on such ideas and says the circumstances. Here, but you're right you're not the first, you're not the only one. There's a problem here, so we'll deal with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29231	Thank you very much. Thank you, Secretary of State. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then we move on to the debate that I am opening, and the first on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns Club will speak to the respected representative Željko Sacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29232	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Madam Chief State Lawyers with Associates, the Croatian public, colleagues and colleagues. We therefore have a very extensive report on the work of the State's Attorney's Office for Unfortunately 2019. Now that is, they are already thick last year's snows and the data we have there can only be taken in principle into analysis, the basis of their discussions to monitor trends, i.e. to detect the essential problems facing in their work the State's Attorney General. It is, of course, important to note that this is precisely the report of the State’s Attorney General’s Office that is extremely exhaustive, and it will certainly be the basis for many scientific recruits or professional public who will write their works and will be available to them for scientific and professional analysis and certainly to the legal public. But what is not within is certainly sufficiently highlighted are exactly suggestions for improving work and an extremely important institution. We must say that there are certain indications of the problems you mentioned in your report by detailing, for example, the problem of research and confiscation of the benefits obtained by criminal acts. That's where you made it clear what you needed. You need more resources for court experts so you can explore these funds for peaceful settlements where billions of kunas are concerned, so you certainly have a problem with the lack of expert staff, especially on jumping cases. And what's shocking is that since 2014, the established Department of Financial Investigations and Research has benefited from the criminal act, however, that it is not completed. Be careful he has not been filled since 2014 with experts who have expertise in banking, audits, customs, taxes, shareholders, who can trace money. So to discover it, freeze it and be of use to certainly freeze property, that is, confiscation. Now, when we look at all this together in the globally, and your personnel structure, it means judicial officials, advisors, all of it, officers, tenants. As far as I can see, I don't know what changed in the meantime if 1800 people are concerned and the budgets that were provided to you, unfortunately, and a month ago here in this House some 400 and 30, 460 million kuna in total, for all, for municipal state attorneys, county, DORH, chief DORH in all segments then we can come to a frantic conclusion from which we actually have as a society, like this state one responsibility and all of us and parliamentary representatives. But the greatest responsibility for the inefficient work of the State's Attorney's Office, for not ensuring independence at least to the level that our judges are just being held by the Executive Authority, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, because you gentlemen don't have enough money. You do not have enough money to answer the demands which Croatian society is the first condition, the material and technical basis of your work is not provided and this is now the question of whether or not it is what it is? Is it just a product of insufficient activity of your management in these 10, 15 years that you've been silent, you haven't asked, you haven't worked unlike the MUP that always takes and has 6 and a half billion now available. He's in trouble, but they have almost everything they need. Here, the DORH informs us that Fiat Tempru has 20 years of age and that he suffers from the service, because the deputy state attorneys cannot do their job if they are centrally stationed here in Zagreb and must go to Karlovac. Is he using public transport? Oh, my God, they're using public transport because they don't have vehicles please nice! Then they sneez their roofs in Zagreb. They don't, now they're frozen in Pula, Rijeka, the Lady has nothing to lie to. So whose responsibility is it, please, nice? Who made the appointment? Why won't they let you work? On the other hand, on the other hand, my dear gentlemen, these very few people are ensuring the dam that crime does not completely flood us on the one hand, and on the other hand, in this story right now, they are caring for the least, at this moment, at least 15 billion kuna for the benefit of the Republic of Croatia, which, through international arbitration, provides for the defence of interest and defence, defends the interests of the Republic of Croatia by prosecutors for 9 billion kuna. In Croatia, they defend the interests of the Republic of Croatia through trade courts, civil administrative disputes, various adhesion procedures for a billion and 600 million kuna. Through the executions of more than nearly a billion kunas. So they earn huge, under quotes huge money, they pay and secure the state budget, and we as a legislative body, especially as the Government of the Republic of Croatia headed by Mr Plenkovic cannot necessarily ensure that we do not talk about salaries. So this report, however I criticized it, I must always have in front of my eyes that these people have tied their hands, legs, educated, professional. We've had the opportunity to hear how much effort, knowledge, pain if you will, the tenacity you need to acquire legal qualifications to come to the opportunity to defend the interests of the Republic of Croatia in the fight against crime or anything else, civil, administrative. And not to say how morally responsible you have to be clean because you have to be under the wing of all kinds of services every day and safely clean, you can't be a member of the Mason God thank you. Now, dear friends, what remains to be concluded is that you are the chief attorneys of the state far more precisely, better, more systematically present your resor's work than, unfortunately, Mr. Sessa when he filed an application, or a report for the work of the judicial authority. What we're missing and what we're going to do with the amendment can't happen to your report without one important segment of the State's Attorney's Council. Our legislative body, our legislative body, our Parliament, our representatives must be familiar with all the elements of the staff problems that need to be presented to us by the State Attorney's Council. If you'll take it upon yourself we'll help you. Do you need an amendment to amend the law, but part of your report like Mr. Sess's is an annex work by the State Judiciary Council. Where we have insight into how many personnel there are, how many unconscious, irresponsible, criminal there are, how many disciplines there are, how many people who don't do their job. This is what all our bodies must know and the Croatian public. What I welcome deeply is your reference to a criminal policy that, in your opinion, is insufficient, which is too mild, which is not sharp enough. At the level of municipal state attorneys, county courts, DORH, USKOK, not to speak. But USKOK deserves a special analysis and I will give it in my individual speech, because as far as USKOK is concerned, there are all the criteria and all the criteria have fallen significantly, and contrary to your basic intensity that we want a sharp criminal policy, and right now the jumping objects prove the opposite. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29233	Thank you. The next club is the MOST on behalf of which the respected representative, Nikola Grmoy, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29234	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the respected state's attorney general. So, I would only at the beginning since I had already asked one question and unfortunately I have to conclude in front of the entire public who sees us as having misinformed the Croatian public. So, Mr. Sabelak, who is the applicant of a criminal application, has never been invited to the DORH to testify, to give any testimony. But it just shows that, unfortunately, or you don't know what's going on in the DORH and USKOK, or you deliberately conceal certain information whichever of these two is in effect, or whatever the case is, is not good for the Croatian judiciary, for the work of the State's Attorney's Office. I often spoke critically of the work of the DORH and our judiciary as a whole in Parliament and beyond. Most often my criticisms were about how the institutions of our judiciary and the state's attorneys are dealing with the problem of corruption, how successful they are in the pursuit of corruption and how much the price of their failure is. And it will certainly be the top topic and today's debates and deserve it. I would say that, in that sense, we will have to carry out anti-corruption reconstruction at some point and strengthen the resilience of our institutions to corruption just as we are discussing today that we must build our houses so that they are resistant to earthquakes. But to speak only of corruption, fighting it would be a great injustice for the subject ahead. This is a report of complex matter whose complexity is conditioned by the breadth and number of businesses located in the department of state attorneys. In view of this, even when it's so extensive, it's not possible to end up plastically showing what the state's attorneys are doing. And the system of state attorneys when we view it as a whole is literally the largest set of practical, legal knowledge in the Republic of Croatia. I'd say the report also contains a certain dose and subjective element of a professional pride of people working on the report. If you read carefully, you will encounter small remarks that individuals have written in the report, stressing the complexity of some legal issues or the importance and extent of what the state's attorneys did in 2019. This subjective element is also the strongest message of this report, as it lets us know that there are professionals in the state's attorneys who love their jobs and work in silence far from the light of the stage, often outside of working hours. It's an encouraging message, but here's what we could hear in the very answers to the questions of the attorney general is what we all have to worry about. I would say, however, that despite this kind of response from the attorney general, the best investment that we as a state can make right now is investment in the state's attorney's office. All our lives have taught us that if we want to do something good, then that quality should also be paid for by that old people’s “how much money so much music. ” Therefore, if we as a state want to have an effective system of state attorneys, if we want to send a message to state lawyers, their deputies, trainers and others, that their work is valuable, then they should be adequately rewarded with wages, provide them with the best working conditions, best technology and sufficient material resources. Everything else is floscule. We can ask ourselves here, so I could hit on corruption, and that would certainly go well on social networks and elsewhere. I posted a video of this question, and people respond positively to it. It would be better if they were indifferent. That would mean that the State's Attorney's Office and the judiciary are working well. But let's just ask ourselves, who would be normal for a salary that might be a little higher than the average would go to war with organized crime and corruption that has tentacles and at the top of political power. For these wages as they are today in the state's attorneys, only fanatical professionals can do that. Unfortunately, these are too few, and that is what needs to be changed. If we look at only that segment of this report relating to international arbitration, what do you think it feels like when our state attorneys and their deputies are preparing all the legal and other bases for some expensive arbitration, and then looking at some foreign lawyers who are receiving millions of fees. More specifically, more than 80 million kuna in 2019 alone. For every single and smallest legal operation to be taken in an arbitration procedure. We in the House can't play humps and take more things for granted, and we often do that. Look at how many of us in the Parliament in a number of laws, in the state's attorneys, are easily adding new jobs of giving opinions. So our state attorneys give opinions in concession procedures, available to agricultural land in the lease of ponds, in the lease of hunting grounds, and on various contracts at which public-law bodies of all levels have public property, on proposals of laws and other regulations. And all this because in a series of state and local bodies the institution sits people who are either incompetent or prone to thieving. Because the report clearly shows whenever the state removed the state's attorneys from any of the above procedures, there were systemic phenomena of illegality and thieving. In that sense, we have to sign off here, so I'm also going to do that as a state attorney as a body of prevention of corruption or incompetence, not just as a law enforcement body. Also in this and previous reports, we can see some trends in the emergence of certain new forms of crime that have a cross-border and international element. I mean crimes related to human trafficking or drugs, and there will be more and more success in the prosecution of money laundering. We have to admit here that our police and the state's attorneys are recording successes, which is partly conditioned by the fact that there is an appropriate international incentive. And this is in some ways a small sign of optimism, as it is shown that the Croatian authorities are investigating criminal offences and prosecution can do much with appropriate political support. But the question is what happens when political support is gone, that is, political support goes towards those who are perpetrators of criminal acts, members of the ruling party, members of the government, mayors, etc. A particularly interesting part of the report concerns the so-called The crimes committed by hate. We can see from the 2019 statistics that the number of these crimes is not large, and probably that the number of cases reported refers to a few incidents, although none of these cases should be reduced, it should be said, contrary to the assurances of some actors on the political scene according to this statistics, problems such as hate speech exist at the level of individual incidents rather than systematic occurrences. It is particularly interesting to note in the report that most hate speech applications have been rejected as unfounded, as applicants in most cases have reported other people because of their attitudes that applicants disagree with, which attitudes have nothing to do with hate speech. In that sense, this report does not contribute to a government that wants to ban comments on portals under the pretext of fighting hate speech. So, the State's Attorney's office actually denied the government of the Republic of Croatia. In conclusion, I'd like to say a few more important things. The report shows that the Republic of Croatia, its bodies, as well as local units, are a large dispute generator. The common illegal treatment of state and other public-legal bodies also burdens state attorneys as well as courts and suppresses the judicial system as a whole. Given the number of cases generated by the state's activity, we must now conclude that there are no coincidences or mere incompetence. It will be more likely that in many cases it is corruption, because as everyone knows, the state is a good prosecutor who will always be there to pay the damages. In addition, I am saddened by what we read in the chapter relating to the persecution of war crimes and crimes of conversion and privatisation. We see that because of the conditions prescribed by this law and because of the legal understanding of the Constitutional Court, there is no activity on this matter. It seems that we can only put salt on our tails to war-winners and that the whole story with a joint long-term action of HDZ and SDP has been decommissioned, and that war profiters and criminals from the conversion of privatisation are now moral verticals of society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29235	The next debate is on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, the distinguished representative Grbin and Jaksic
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29236	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Vice-President, the respected chief state attorneys, the problems facing the Croatian State Attorney's Office today, unfortunately, we see in almost all other state institutions, and this is a problem of losing confidence. The loss of trust in the State Attorney's Office is, however, somewhat specific to many other bodies. In the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia we have a number of individuals who are diligently, responsibly often overtime, and in inadequate conditions and for inadequate wages do work to protect the interests of the Republic of Croatia both those property and those in criminal proceedings. But the problem here is that the person who runs that institution for these or those reasons in the last year has violated that trust. This confidence has been violated already in the process of its election, and then it has been potentiated in several situations during the term of office. I'll just remind you of some. The prime minister says the chief state attorney needs to explain some phenomenon, a concrete leak of information as the remote manager, the chief state's attorney is calling a press conference. The prime minister says we need to investigate an object, some area, here it is the next day after that the investigation begins. Dear colleagues and colleagues of this kind and such conduct question the credibility of the entire institution and, to some extent, brings to the stage of shame all those who work responsibly and diligently under heavy pay conditions for the job. And then today, when I ask a question about 30,000 items with an explanation that it says in the report that there are more cases due to the entry of the elderly, I cannot get a clear answer. Whether these items have been shown before in the reports or are shown only today, because if they are shown today then it is doubtful that all previous reports are credible and then, with all due respect, someone has to answer, because we are all here in the assembly and in the media and in the public dealing with false information. 30,000 cases in front of municipal state attorneys or 20% compared to the current annual number of cases are not limited and they could not disappear. And according to what the account says, they were not shown. It is clearly necessary to seek responsibility. However, I need to make it clear what the position of the MPs' club on this report will be. We won't be able to accept it, we can't support it but not because of the work of municipal, county attorneys, advisors, associates and other officials in those bodies, but because of what the chief state attorney didn't do today. And that didn't come here and pointed out the problems that exist in the functioning of the state's attorney's offices, the problems primarily materially-financial, human and similar nature, the conditions where, in the individual state's attorneys of our fellow and colleagues who do this work, they can't practically go to their desks from the file that prevents them from doing so. This is a problem expressed everywhere in Croatia, and many governments and I am not asking for the exception of responsibility for any of them. We ask people to represent the material and financial interests of the heavy billion kuna, and we cannot provide them with adequate working conditions. And today, the main state attorney before us who brings the state budget has a chance to talk about it and advocate his profession, and it has come down to reading statistics. We cannot support this in the SDP, and counterpart Jaksic will further explain certain parts we disagree with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29237	The Honorable Chairman, respected state attorneys with associates, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, above all a good day and a nice greeting to all. Every man has his own style, every man has his own name and name, and then we come to the field of corruption and crime, crime, every corruption, crime, crime has his own name, too. Why did I mention the name and the last name? Because no one argues that we have more and more transparent reports, that we can see more and more numbers, that we can track a lot of the processes that are being conducted in this country. But trust is not achieved with these figures, with these statistics, we will gain trust only if those criminal acts that have their own name and last name get their satisfactory epilogue after which the citizens of this country will not feel maimed because once again, there is a very easy famo that there are equal ones in this country and there are equal ones. People in this country's institutions do not fall due to the work of the municipal state attorney's office whether in Koprivnica, whether in Varazdin, the county state's attorneys and not all of our apparatus and all of those people who work in that system as a whole. It falls when they see investigations go against Pulisic, investigations that have not yet been launched, perhaps in Banija, as some politicians and presidents of certain courts already know that nothing will come out of it, that some who have to welcome their verdict finally flee across our country's borders and the mass of other cases where the question of what we have all done together to prevent such events. What have we done to prevent the crackdown on whether in the case of the Roman, do we, in the case of Varga, do we, in the case of Curic, do we, in the case of Kovacevic? Did we draw the line and see what these people could manipulate by measures and allow someone to get rid of certain evidence or simply flee across the border? A small number of people know about the measures, and of course, the question is, how do these measures end so easily when it comes to someone with a more important name and last name, and we never determine within a circle of 5, 6, 7 people, so who could have been that bond that leaked the data out? The second question that is often asked is that we like to highlight in the reports how much judgment has been passed and how much judgments have been taken of the property benefit acquired by illegal actions, what I would like to see once in these papers, what is ultimately charged, and what is managed to pass on whether to some relatives, whether to some mates or simply bury in the yard in the country. It would be nice to find out once whether Robert Jezic, who was a crown witness in certain processes, ever paid EUR 5 million that he was supposed to pay according to the verdict made in Zagreb's court. We would also like to see data on disputes against the state by our citizens as much as money, how many disputes have been lost, whether there might have been a solution somewhere before and reduced to the burden of the state that sometimes we are not inflexible to those small, ordinary citizens. These are topics with which we can restore trust in the system, with which we can restore faith to ordinary citizens that this country can be equal for everyone and that they can all be equally responsible for what they make. It's the only way we can tell corruption a lot and get her away from us. We're not going to solve it with statistical indicators, tables without those clear objects that often keep this public busy. Here we have today the case of Žinić, last week, last week we had the case of Puljašić and so we could go from case to case, from name and last name to last name. And so since we are also choosing the leadership of the state's attorneyship by political will, I can only say that without a clear political will for the final and final calculation of corruption that makes people lose faith in the institutions of this country we can't expect to have any more success, gave more normal discussions on this subject than we should be on year-on-year dealing with certain individuals, looking for these dolls in the cereals, and each time we'll wonder how someone escapes us at the last minute, and why he got that information and who saved him from the system. We would therefore like, once, to obtain an initiative from both the State Attorney's Office and the Ministry of Justice, and also from the judicial authority that needs legislative changes, how to facilitate their action, how to protect them, and ultimately how much new materials, new cars, new offices, new equipment are needed, so that together we can make a decision on how to deal with corruption to the end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29238	The next debate on behalf of SDSS Representatives' Club, distinguished representative Dragana Jeckov.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29239	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected state lawyers with associates, respected State Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, as we have had the opportunity many times today, so we point out that we are talking about the State's Attorney's Office's report for 2019 and, therefore, detailing the performance and quality of the work of the State's Attorney's Office for Criminal Affairs and the Civil-Government Department at the level of the entire system. So we've seen that there are really numbers for my taste and too much, but if they are, if that's an expression of efficiency and a quality indicator then fine. So in 2019 we have 25 municipal, 15 county attorneys, USKOK and DORH therefore a total of 42 state attorneys in which they were employed in 2019 1.812, and what is actually 636 people are state lawyers and their deputies, which is therefore a slight reduction compared to 2018. And it is not out of the question that just in 2019 17 deputy state attorneys were relieved. The report points out and indisputable something to be commended, which is what the finding actually refers to the sex structure of persons in the state's attorney's office because such a situation is rarely visible in other state institutions. So out of the total number of state attorneys, almost 70% of women are women, and in the overall structure of women's employees, 80.57% were commendable. However, what is not commendable certainly is the reduction of the number of employees of national minorities and it has become one trend of reductions so that in 2016, we can see that officials are declared as members of national minorities that there were 4.51%, in 2018. 4.39% for 2019 to be 4.88%. This trend is therefore visible that it is falling and here I am interested in commenting on the respected state's attorneys on this matter. We also see that in 2019 the solved cases were 17% more than compared to 2017 and that at the end of 2019 almost 30% of the cases remained unsolved than in 2018. During the period from 2016 to 2019, the rate of urgency of the increase as the time of settlement of the case is shortened, which is indicated by the performance indicators applied by the Council of Europe's Justice Effectiveness Commission. Until now, the above information is gained by weight if the conditions of work in the state's attorney's office are known and with what sub-optimation they fight daily, and we have talked about it several times today. And one part of the report talks about the age structure of employees and one of the esteemed colleagues said that we would get into a situation that we would no longer have state attorneys if this trend continues, if there is no rejuvenation of staff because the highest number of officials aged 35 to 55 is. In 2019, only 16 legal practitioners were employed, which is certainly too little. This condition is important to regain consciousness. Of course we're asking why it's like that. And one reason is certainly the burden of solving cases, not rarely it's inadequate work actually work in inadequate conditions with outdated equipment, and it's not necessary to ignore even inadequate incomes that are lower than in other state institutions, which is why it happens to us that exactly officials, state attorneys go to other jobs most often in local self-government units. All of these are reluctant factors that result in a constant outflow of experienced and trained state-of-law and furniture personnel to other state institutions. It is clear that we should do something to promote the work of lawyers and make it a desirable place to work with the best lawyers who start their professional careers and certainly make a decision on new employment and investment in equipment and means of work. All this, of course, if we want this pillar of the judicial system to be effective. A special part of the report is dedicated to the criminal acts of war crimes and criminal acts of hate speech and acts committed by hate, and here we see that in 2019, county state attorneys received 60 criminal charges for the crimes of war crimes committed during the war and 6 applications were transferred from the previous period. I should also point out this on behalf of the club, but also on my behalf, to believe that every war crimes offender must be held accountable for his misdemeanors and that everyone for whom there is irrefutable evidence that he committed a crime should and should face it and be convicted of whatever military formation he or she belonged to or any national group. When it comes to hate crimes as we know it is necessary to fulfill two elements of a crime, and then to motivate it to commit such an act to be prejudice or hatred toward a particular social group or a member of that group. Only in that case do they commit themselves to more severe punishment and prescribing it as a difficult circumstance. And in 2019, we recorded 60 people reported for a hate crime which is a significant leap compared to, say, 2019 when we were only 27. Of course, the most common discriminatory basis that appears in the cases in 2019 remains nationality, then religion and ethnic origin as well as sexual commitment. In relation to the crime of hate speech, or public encouragement to violence, 59 criminal charges were received, and 39 were rejected from that number. I point out as a data from the Office for Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities for the first half of 2020, where there is also a trend in increasing the crime of hate, including the criminal act of public inciting violence and hatred that continues. There is even less joy in the fact that only 3 convictions have been passed during this period, although the DORH has acted in any way in more than 60 cases. All in all, the Club of Representatives of the SDSS will support the State Attorney's Office's report on the work for 2019, but we also hope that without any intention to influence the work and bias of the DORH and the state's attorneys' offices, they will work more intensively to process and prevent hate crimes in a broader sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29240	The next debate is on behalf of the Association of MPs of the Homeland Movement, the Honorable Representative and Vice President Mr Miroslav Škoro.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29241	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear State Attorneys, the main state attorneys with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues, when, a month ago, on behalf of the House of Homeland Movement Club, I gave an opening speech on the report by the Supreme Court President on the state of the court's state of affairs, I focused on an analysis of the statistical indicators of the work of the courts to show that the report actually means nothing and doesn't say anything because it does not point to any major problem in the work of the courts or the structural problem of the Croatian judiciary. Today we have a similar statistical report, but the respected chief state attorneys will not be so concerned with the analysis of your report, so I would like to point out in advance that my remarks and speech, although the issue of independence of the attorney general and the state's attorney, will not be addressed to you personally in any way. I allow you to be an excellent state attorney, an excellent lawyer and a person of envious moral integrity, so I have no intention of taking the criticism personally, but I stress that I want to discuss a structural problem that has not begun or will end with the lady. The golden Croatia-Scipek. So what makes the foundations of an institutional framework of a healthy democratic state? First free elections, second professional public administration as a service of citizens, third independent courts and fourth independent state attorneys and law enforcement authorities. And you would say a man has no further than that, that's it, and we all know that he has and that we call it different names, and the most common expression we've often heard in public space is a deep state. In what connection the concept of a democratic state is based on respect for human rights and the rule of law with the concept of so-called "the law". Deep countries? This is supposed to be a trivial expression towards relativisation from left intellectual circles allegedly invented on the margins of the populist right, and in fact, a scientifically justified concept of numerous research into corruption. For example, it has been used in World Bank reports since the beginning of this millennium and only there is it properly called, a captive state or as the English state capture or capture state is said. It is synonym for structural or systemic political corruption in the countries of Eastern Europe and is conditional on, among other things, its post-communist heritage and transition, and elsewhere in the world marks the manipulation and domination of public services by strong and powerful stakeholders. This term is not only known in the scientific, economic or legal community in the second half of the 20th century but is also used in ethics as well as in the religion in the official canon of the Catholic Church under the syntagm of “load structures” in 1997. if you remember. Croatia has just been captured by a state, a society which, according to all the reports of relevant international organisations, the Council of Europe and the European Commission, is at the very bottom of the EU through systematic corruption in high policy and public administration from centralised authorities to JLS, and with the lowest confidence of citizens and entrepreneurs in the integrity and independence of public administration, courts and state lawyers. The question is, how does the state capture it? Well, here's what's important is to master four basic processes in its institutions. First, it is necessary to master public procurement in order to forward money flows in the economy to selected political and economic structures. It is therefore necessary to manage employment in the public administration in order to ensure the proper functioning of the corrupt system for persons who are employed, who do not question anything, know nothing and want to know nothing. The third would be the appointment of judges in order to manage the proceedings in the judiciary and the fourth appointment of a state lawyer in order to control the processes in the state's attorneys' offices and other law enforcement bodies and ensure the impunity of selected structures. When these 4 processes are brought to an end around the elected political and economic structure that governs them, there is an addictive clienttelist structure that asks nothing, shuts up and gets rewarded for it. In addition, this addictive clienttelic structure would or would not want in the elections to ensure by voting the state of the captured deep state, because without it, they lose their perks. In the 2014 report on the prevention of corruption in Croatia GRECO's main anti-corruption body, the Council of Europe, issued a recommendation based on the opinion of the Venice Commission for Democracy through the right that the Republic of Croatia should change the way the main state attorney is elected, noting that the existing system in which the government de facto the Prime Minister chooses the chief state attorney, which does not guarantee the independence of the state's attorney. GRECO has called for the constitutional provisions laid down in Article 2. 121.a. the constitution guaranteeing independence to the State's attorneys, warning that the selection model of the main state attorney if the constitutional principle of independence of the judiciary is interpreted in the spirit of Council of Europe recommendations and convention standards does not meet those standards. In its later reports, the Council of Europe again objected that Croatia had never complied with GRECO's recommendation. Therefore, Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic chose the Prime Minister personally after, if you remember a formal play from an interview where some questions were allegedly asked about the qualifications and motivation of candidates for chief state attorneys, and on these issues, the public never learned anything about the candidates' answers. Mr. Plenkovic, the Master of Legal Science, without any day of effective working experience in legal practice or in court, or in the Attorney General, assessed the qualifications and results of the candidates for the main state attorney, who, unlike him, has a 10-year experience in the attorney's office. It should be noted that this Mr. Plenkovic is a man who has approved and appointed the State Secretary, for example in the Ministry of Administration, a person who is suspected of... And taking bribes, I'm sorry, taking bribes in the Krsh-Pared affair. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] In addition to her in the affair, a number of other executive staffs of different ministries were arrested mainly members of the party, which Mr Plenkovic is president and which he chose for the most part by his radar. The interview reportedly included, even asking, the candidates, Minister Coric, whose mandate led to a number of major corruption affairs, including Krš-Padjene and Janaf, where the state's attorney's office is now conducting an investigation. Thanks to the Janaf affair, we found out where he is and is meeting a part of that political and economic structure of the captured state, it meets in Slovenia 9. For example, Slovenia 9 has been revealed that the tentacles of these economic political structures really go back to the four fundamental institutions that should be pillars of a healthy democratic society founded on the rule of law. If we talk about free elections there, at the time of the bribe handover, there was a husband of the candidate for president of the state. It is interesting that the arrest of the suspect found in committing the crime is not committed but has been delayed. If we are talking about an independent judiciary, we have learned that in this club the work is brought together by the President of the Court of Justice, where the most important and greatest criminal department for the control of corruption and organised crime in the country is located. I have already spoken about the way in the public administration and it is clear to everyone, and when it comes to independent state attorneys and independent law enforcement bodies around Slovenia 9 the most common mystic phenomena took place. Namely, as usual, prior to the start of the action, information was leaked from PNUSKOK, so the suspect gradually solved the compromising evidence leading to the spectacular action of excavating his cell phones from the Sava mud, and the money flow led first to a trunk in a garage and through a cat bag directly to the deputy state attorney's apartment. In the whole story of the Krš-Padjene-Janaf affairs, only two moments are crucial, the moment the suspects found out that they were under covert measures or special evidence actions conducted by PNUSKOK and the moment when the arrest in Slovenia 9 was delayed on the handover of bribes. Finally, in addition to all those arrested by the political structure of the captured state, it is easy to give up in order to create a vision of a functioning democracy and move on uninterruptedly, only those who are not yet arrested or will be arrested while such a composition of power is being arrested. Everything else like this report that's in front of us today is actually irrelevant. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29242	The next debate is on behalf of Green-left bloc advocate Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29243	Thank you. So, as I was already in my opening question, I would like to point out once again that one of the key problems of this report is that it does not contain the information that is relevant for the work of this body so that this body can improve and create conditions for the effective operation of the DORH, and one of such key information is the issue of reporting on detected political and other pressures on DORH employees, obstructions of investigations and all other types of pressures that occur to employees, and hindering them or obstructing the investigation. We don't really have anything on that. But my question today is a major state attorney as an example of the pressures that are experienced daily by media pressures, so what the media is reporting. But it's not a problem with the one who delivers the message, the problem is with the one who puts pressure on it. And we don't know anything about political pressures on the DORH. What would be particularly interesting to find out to me is whether within the DORH there are mechanisms, internal mechanisms through which employees can report pressure cases, that's the first thing, and secondly, how and how then the chief state attorney deals with it, then what happens because I have seen that we have no reports and you have today confirmed to me that no criminal charges for the crime are filed against the judicial officer. So, according to me in this report, but statistics would also make it a fact that there are no pressures on judicial officials in Croatia, they don't exist, corruption that little that has here is sort of being solved, and actually we're dealing well with it, that's what we could actually conclude from this report. And on the other hand we know what the problem and the spread of political corruption in Croatia is and we know that we are a country with the lowest confidence in the judiciary and it is not a joke and it is not just a matter of perception because this perception is based on the personal experience of millions of our citizens who have personal contact with the judiciary. That perception didn't fall off. What we do not have as information that would be important is data on the breakthrough of measures during the duration of the reconnaissance, although it is clear that there is a perception in the public that this is also one of the major problems of efficiency of investigations particularly in the field of political corruption. I'm going to give you an example of that, and we're not reading anything about it in the report. The case of Pozega, so Mr. Knight, you all know who he is, the man who reported the corruption of the mayor and the mayor and who recorded everything, recorded that video of him looking for a match, he handed it over to USKOK in the spring of the 4th month. However, when the affair broke out in public, it was only now that the video was released and what was actually heard clearly in that video he gave USKOK and where it was heard that Puljasic and Pilon Knights were trying to get the job to the selected companies. Meanwhile, the same gentleman who reported it was fired, and he also received threats and messages in the sense that his head would be removed if he did not listen, etc., during that period from 4 months to 15.7., no indictment was confirmed in that case. It may not be a long period for three months, but when you have eclative evidence, so the recording of it being heard is clear, perhaps we could have expected this confirmation of the indictment before to actually prevent this same gentleman from coming here to the Croatian Parliament and becoming a parliamentary representative in the meantime. We have also asked the question, of course, and we are interested in the opinion of the main state attorney on what he thinks about situations where the persons against whom the checks are being conducted or against whom the criminal application has been filed are being filed, and it was known at that time that a criminal application has been filed against man and that it has not been filed without meaning. But that's not the only problem, there's another important item, and that item is that Mr. Vitez and Pilon clearly said that he had this video of that conversation and that he handed it over to Uskko to the police. So the police told him, that's how they found out. Now, my question is, how many of these cases of breach of measures or such kind of transmission of information by the police to those who may be accused there are and why can't we see how many of them have been filed for obstruction of a judicial investigation? We don't see that here. So we don't know how the DORH is dealing with this kind of obstruction investigation where I'm not saying that these things might be done by the DORH, I say in this case it was the police, it could be someone from the court later, but I'm wondering if those acts are being recognized and whether criminal proceedings are being brought against them. When we look at statistics related to corrupt crimes presented in the report, we come to what we all know and say somewhere, but very often they tell us where your evidence is, so here's your evidence, and that's proof that corruption is not considered a serious and serious crime. Where do you see that? This is seen in the policy of settlement and in the policy of punishment. For example, I really want the public to hear that both municipal and county courts and municipal state attorneys and deputy municipal state attorneys, judicial advisers, lawyers, bankruptcy managers, public notebooks, etc., are therefore being reported, this type of corruption is being detected. Of the 49 people reported after the investigation was completed, charges were filed against 12, okay. However, in the same period, the courts brought judgments against 16 persons for the crime of taking bribes. All judgments are convictions, but 11 of those 16 were made under the agreement of the parties, meaning collokual settlements and recognitions. Now, those 11 have all been sentenced to prison, but for 7 of them, the sentence of prison has been replaced by work for the common good. So, the people who took bribes from them 11.7 as punishment has work for the common good. Let's take a look at the crime scene of abuse of position and authority. That's where we had 48 convictions, 48 convictions. Of the 48 convictions in prison, only seven people ended up. Why? Because all the other punishments where we've had a conviction of 22, 14, 14 have been replaced by a prison sentence for the greater good. So, I repeat for the crime of abuse of position and authority, this used to be a bribe. So, no matter how many of them are detected, how many indictments are managed to raise what is the result of these proceedings, which is what the citizens are interested in, the result of the process was eaten by a donkey wolf or a gulio is a potato for half a year. This is the result of all these anti-corruption processes that end up working for the common good and it's not right. And why does it come to that? What's my question is, is that what this is about? Because, of course, it's more effective and faster to go to the parties' agreement than to carry out the whole evidence procedure, but if that's the problem, you have to make it clear that because of the lack of funds you're forced to do it or as you stated in the report that because of the lack of funds and subdiscipline you've increased the number of cases in which you're going to jail, that means there's no debate, that there's no debate, but there's no criminal charge, but in such cases, the first sentence can be used for easier crimes where a prison sentence of up to a maximum of 5 years and the second one can's not be asked for a prison sentence in a criminal order. 50% increase in such cases where it's wanted. [[Intruder: Time.]] So are we going to save, are we going to save on such things, that's what I'm asking you?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29244	The next debate is on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the distinguished representative Marija Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29245	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I would like first of all to say that this report, which has been submitted on the work of the DORH, is very comprehensive, structured and analytically depicting the data on the work and, as such, I consider it very good. Before I begin to point out some more of the information in this report itself precisely because I think it is important to hear everything that is stated in the report or at least the most basic because it tells us exactly about the work of the DORH or the deputy state attorney and everything they are doing in their work. Before that, I would like to point out once again what we all know and what we are all calling for, and that the State's Attorney's Office is an independent and independent body, and given this in mind, we ourselves should know that we cannot discuss specific cases here today. Mr. Škoro stated in his debate that everything mentioned in the report does not really matter, and that I absolutely disagree because all of the information mentioned in the report shows a picture of the work of the DORH. A few data that are important for the structure of the DORH itself, that is, above all, that it is 31.12.2019. a total of 42 state attorneys, of which 25 municipal, 15 county, USKOK and DORH. The Law on Areas and Seats of State Laws of 2018 which entered into force on 1.1.2019, three new municipal state attorneys were established in Metkovic, Pazin and Vinkovci. All State attorneys shall be responsible for the conduct in criminal, civil and administrative cases other than the USKOK, which shall act as a special state attorney's office responsible for a specific type of criminal offences and for the entire Republic of Croatia. About the number of employees we've already heard everything so I won't look back on it, but what I'm going to point out is that the total number of items is 266,478 items, it's quite a large number, of which was solved at the end of the reporting period 219,498, unsettled 46,979. The number of cases for the reporting period increased by 19% compared to the previous year, and the number of resolved cases increased by 14%. The number of cases conducted before courts and administrative authorities in the participation of the State Attorney's Office increased by 8% compared to 2018. Of the 826 filled jobs, there were 647 resolvers or 78.3% on average, and the reason is probably the age structure of employees. Based on the performance indicator established by the number of cases solved in relation to the number of resolvers present at work, it is apparent that from 2016 to 2019. The rate of updates also increases and the number of resolved items increases according to the resolver, and the time of resolution is reduced. Member States shall ensure that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, 23% of cases were received by the resolutionist more than 2018, and 21% of cases were resolved more. At all levels of the State Attorney's Office, criminal, civil and administrative departments are established and their jurisdiction is separated in view of the type of case for which they are responsible. The municipal state attorneys have more criminal cases than civil and administrative cases, and more cases have been resolved in the last two years than have been accepted in municipal and county state attorneys. If we dismember the cases of municipal state attorneys by type of case, we can conclude that the most criminal cases are against the adult and legal persons and the unknown perpetrators, and of the civil and administrative cases are the executive and extraparity cases. For the longest time, criminal cases against unknown perpetrators are resolved, and then criminal cases are landed. In the work of county state attorneys of criminal cases is the most criminal cases of the second degree, while of civil and administrative cases it is the most bankruptcy and prevention cases. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. USKOK received more items than 2018 and also solved more cases. Member States shall ensure that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, A total of 35,912 criminal charges against known perpetrators were received, which is 2.1% more than 2018. The highest number of criminal offences against property and against personal freedom, crimes against marriage, family and children and crimes against the economy. The minor perpetrators of criminal offences account for 4.2% which is slightly higher than 2018. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 13.4 more indictments than 2018. The number of charges brought has been participated in all decisions following a complete investigation with 84.1%. Such a high percentage of the charges brought after the investigation has been completed suggests a conclusion on the founding of a state lawyer's decision to conduct an investigation. Member States shall ensure that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, A total of 14,920 convictions have been reached, with an increase of 835 judgments compared to 2018. According to law, the DORH represents the Republic of Croatia in judicial arbitration and administrative proceedings, procedures for settlement and in proceedings before the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, and the Government of the Republic of Croatia is represented in administrative disputes. The delegation of power shall also be provided for institutions and legal persons whose founder is the Government or the Republic of Croatia. As we have already had the opportunity to hear in USKOK 1365 criminal charges were received from 1323 against natural persons and 42 against legal persons. What's important is to say that it's 2019. 395 solutions to conduct an investigation, mostly from the field of organised crime mainly for crimes against the economy, and compared to 2018, this is 7.1% higher. I've already been told about the work on the basis of the crimes of war crimes, so I won't repeat myself. When we look at data on crimes against the economy, we see that there has been an increase in the number of persons reported due to the criminal offences of economic activity and the criminal offences of tax evasion and customs evasion. The DORH also filed 249 appeals against court decisions in these cases, which means that it has almost filed a complaint against all the liberating and refuting verdicts and 45% of the complaints are respected. In total, 362 persons have been reported for crimes against organised crime, and with the previous unsolved work reports, a total of 369 applications for which all the state's legal decisions were made, including 113 rejection solutions, 250 solutions for the conduct of the investigation, and 3 applications have been resolved in another way. Finally, I would just say more, I will not have time for everything I thought, that the DORH in its jurisdiction also has representation in the proceedings of international arbitration, which is also a significant part of their work and ensures quality representation of the interests of the Republic of Croatia in these proceedings, but also affects the reduction of the costs of representing foreign law offices in these proceedings. The report by the state lawyers, in particular the USKOK and the JDO in Zagreb, points to the very effective use of Eurojust and the European Judicial Network in order to make it easier and more efficient to execute applications for international legal aid and to coordinate procedures during the use of judicial cooperation instruments. As for the conditions of operation of the DORH, i.e. deputy state attorneys and officials in that institution, I think we've heard a lot today. It is certain that we can do even more to improve these conditions. Of course, it is most important to enable the issue of staff structure to be resolved within the DORH because without people, excellent results cannot be expected either. What I would say is, surely, that perception is created and based on everything we can hear in public space, a perception that is negative and that we are all aware of is not just about the work of the DORH but about the whole judiciary. I think it's a task and all the employees of the DORH, but also all of us to work on that perception being realistic, according to the real state, and to make that perception better. Everything that is not good should be indicated, but it is not good to say that the whole system is wrong. Thank you very much. The HDZ Club will support this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29246	The next debate is on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club, the distinguished representative Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29247	Honored chairman, fellow MPs and MPs. If there were real political will in Croatia to be seriously accounted for by systemic corruption and if the DORH were to implement it, then your Report would be heard in a calm manner if no fly in this assembly was heard. Then your exposure would be heard with awe. The relationship between the largest political parties and, in fact, the political cartels, according to the public good, has turned Croatia into a hopeless country, where the responsibility and guilt of the HDZ is unquestionably the greatest and thus someone who performs the role of the state's chief attorney would have to be aware of it and take whatever it takes from the first steps to preserve his own professional dignity and integrity, and hence independence and perception of the independence of the DORH because he has not and cannot be a satisfactory result. The state consists of 3 pillars, institutions, space and people. Our institutions are weak and abandoned, we've devastated our space, often involving corruption in the management of spatial plans, and people have moved out mostly because of corruption, and that's where my motive for entering politics has arisen. The only way out of this situation is in building strong and independent institutions and in doing so I viewed the BOOK and the DORH, and then I viewed all anti-corruption bodies as beacons of hope. At that time when I was on the other side of politics, where politics are controlled, I almost admired Dinko Cvitan, Tamara Laptoš, for which day today I think is one of the best that the Republic of Croatia has. I repeat, at that time with great professional respect, I also looked at Drazen Jelenić, primarily because of his role and his appreciation within the GRECO itself. At the time, I found it humiliating that politics through parliamentary deputies treated representatives of independent institutions during the submission and defence of their annual reports, and studies on parliamentary committees by people who often lacked any, let alone legal education, were below my level of professional dignity. Often these were situations where it was seen that politics was a pure reflection of primitives and forces and political pressures that protected thieving in their own ranks and blackmailing policy by accepting or not accepting the report, it was often that I felt, at that moment, that I was disgusted by politics. When I entered HS, I saw myself as someone who would be the voice of support for anti-corruption bodies. Someone who will be on their side in very insidious debates, someone who will support their good proposals from a political level in order to fit these proposals into laws, and that would make the system better. I said, building strong, independent and effective institutions is my political goal because it's the only way to build a fair and successful state, and our country isn't. And that's why it hurts me that I can't be that voice today that's going to be the distinguished lady. The Croat Ship be on your side. Because when I asked you about your relationship with Barica Novosel, I gave you a chance for a lady, but also an honorable answer, but I didn't get that answer. You didn't answer me if you heard from a person who made a serious threat to your deputy Boris Koketti last December. I didn't ask you if you knew Ivica Mandic but if you heard from him, because if you did, and you didn't deny it, the question that is in itself being imposed, how did he get your phone number when that number of phones with severe trouble comes to the authorities. There is really not much to discuss about the report itself. It is made up of pure dry statistics because such content is regulated by law because politics wanted it so, so are those political cartels that you should fight against. And if you think that press releases are one of the forms of political pressure, then you should simply say who the pressure is, are these HDZ members, given that the largest number of officials are from their ranks that you should be investigating right now. However, whatever the report I was, it does not prevent us from discussing what is really important, it is a policy relationship especially through the executive authority to the independence of the DORH, whether it is compromised and whether it exists at all in the period since the beginning of your term of office. Mrs. Šipek, you just didn't get off on the right foot, and I don't want to offend you in any way because I know you from some working bodies personally think that the role that the attorney general should have is simply not up to you. You have not denied the allegations that you and Barica Novosel have been hanging out at parties in Jaska or that in any way you are with her and privately in good relations, and public data says so. And by doing so, in a state of justice that is conscious of the importance of preserving your own independence, your days in the State's Attorney's Office would actually be numbered. Why? Because Barica Novosel's relationship with HDZ is very close, until 2016 she was deputy justice minister, and at the time of the term of office of Minister Drazen Bosnjakovic was his adviser. And maybe if there weren't all the other circumstances, the closeness and role of Barce Novosel with the minister of justice whose government put you in charge of the main state's attorney's office would have passed as one hard dumpling through your throat. But HDZ is a political party that is self-convicted for corruption, HDZ members are models of the largest and most serious corruption affairs, and the number of ministers who have been compromised by the corruption affairs discovered by the media, not DORH or some other state-run research bodies imposes a duty on someone who has the intention, job and duty of the chief state attorney to perform as he should, not to be placed through protection, conspiracy and connection through someone who is sitting in the wings of the HDZ himself. I do not claim that Barica Novosel was your relationship, but an article published in the media if it is correct compromises you deeply, and all this happens in circumstances in which no one in the DORH no longer has confidence and because of a whole series of events of which some refer to the unworthy actions of your predecessors. The DORH that the public doesn't trust, and right now there's enough reason not to believe it, is a DORH that simply doesn't work in the fight against corruption. And here I'm going to say a few other problems. When you presented your résumé in the section that spoke of your personal family opportunities, it actually seemed like a courtship to the mental part of the parliamentary majority. That's what you're pretending to be for the head of state's attorney not to allow. A part of the programme concerning the fight against corruption shows that the fight against corruption will be marginalised as it is. Instead of your announcement of the program, this particular parliamentary majority was terrified. That you've strayed into the office of the state's attorney general shows some of your staff moves as well. One of the decisions of the Ethics Commission which unfortunately and to my great unpleasant surprise anonymously, referring to Drazen Jelenić, says the following. He says, I'm going to have to read it because I'm so upset with the text that I'm reading here, which is that the former chief state attorney has said and sworn with his honor, with his conscience that he'll be silent about normal and internal things and not talk to anyone about it and he'll be obeyed by the laws of the Mason, he'll support his Masonic brothers with advice and work, and that he'll keep the secrets of every Mason as his own, and the oath will be considered as his sacred vow. That's what the man who was the attorney general said, and in the system of the state's attorney, he's still working today. And instead of you sending a leading message, the leader's message that such behavior within the DORH itself cannot be tolerated because not only is it in conflict with that oath that someone has sworn as the chief state attorney who was to protect the Constitution and the law of the Republic of Croatia, and not the Masons, you have waited, for a year to see what the ethical commission will say to hide behind his role. If this same ethical commission was not able to obtain data and documentation from this very Masonic association because it is obviously not afraid of it, then how do you expect that the State Attorney's Office you run can be fear and shivering criminals in this country, and they are enthroned at the very top of the state government. Finally, I will point out something on page 48 of your report, and some of my previous colleagues have talked about it. So, if we mention that Mr. Barica Novosel is an adviser to the minister of justice so that she couldn't at least draw attention to what the page says. And it says that no difficulties have been observed in the application of the asset-absorbing institute but problems arise at the collection, if the confiscation is not previously secured by temporary insurance measures. We have the continuity of HDZ authorities in this and in the previous mandate and previous top state lawyers have indicated what needs to be changed in law and therefore nothing has been done until today. It also states here that as early as 2014, in the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime, they organised property benefit research offices acquired by criminal acts, but due to the low coefficients to the day of today, these bodies are not filled in There was a fight against corruption, and shame would have ruined the chair on which [[Intruder: Time.]] Sit down because you didn't do anything about it yourself. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29248	The following are individual debates. Dear Representative Sacic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29249	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Madam Chief Prosecutor, Associates, colleagues and colleagues, the Croatian public, therefore we have had the opportunity to hear in these presentations of our colleagues on behalf of the clubs almost everything has been scanned throughout the work process and the real potential problems facing and potentiated what is more in this report and certainly what is not. What is worth repeating is the desire of a large part, the largest part of Croatian politics and the Croatian public, to prevent all forces from the emergence and growth of crime, especially that of the most difficult organised corruption. Both over the past years and decades of Croatia, HS has been listening to these echoes of the professional public, international professional public, international recommendations of the UN and the EU have introduced certain changes in criminal law, and we have indeed come to the nomotechnical level at one of the highest possible levels in the EU in this legal opposition to the mafia and organised crime, corruption respecting all the positive experiences of our fellow criminals, state prosecutors in America, Europe, and Italy, certainly this one in those countries that have both great success and great experience. And we have become truly one of the extremely good laws of the CAP, of the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering, of the benefits of acquired criminal acts, of setting up USKOK and indeed as the Secretary of State of State says Mr. Attending, we have made a vertical, we have done in the Police of UskoKOK, the State's Attorney's Department of Justice, it is ideally not for us, and there is no one to object or envy, but when we look at the content of how it is done, we do, to what extent we use a terrible blow and interference in human rights and freedoms, even if it is also criminals, by law we allow it, we listen to them, we secretly follow them, we enter their rooms, rooms, yachts, garages, everywhere we shoot, we paint, simulated them, simulated bribes, we pretend, we are undercover investigators with them, we buy drugs, we're guilty by the law enforcement of law enforcement, who commits the law, who commits fraud, who commits fraud, who commits fraud, who commits fraud, who commits fraud, who commits fraud, who commits the crime. And all that is excellent, but dear friends then comes the fiasco of which is Mrs. Bencic had a chance to say a word. For what reason, which are now conditions on the one hand, we have invested everything in order for our repressive institutions to come, discover, prove, arrest, secure, freeze property and when it is necessary to finalise, so in the interests of the public and justice, in the interest of achieving special and general prevention, what is happening is chaos, legal chaos, dear friends. So for the most severe crimes, for example 294 condemning verdicts made on USKOK indictments, even 73% were reached by agreement. Well, that is indeed the defeat of the rule of law, behind it is the two-year and three-year work of the terrible police, lawyers' offices, investigative services, tax returns, services for, for this SOA, etc. and all those, the police, all to come to what, that 65% of law enforcement teams versus the most difficult perpetrators to defend the most serious perpetrators of organised crime and corruption offer to the state's attorney's settlement. Well, that fact itself is a fiasco, and the state's attorney for reasons, we've heard maybe saving, maybe, so says the declared report, that the proceedings don't last long, that we don't cost foreign translators if they're strangers, so I think some, some lapidarian stuff. They agree to this and we get the following, we get that from 294 convictions sentence prison in 184 of which, at the same time, 50% of those prison sentences that are as mild as they are, but out of those mild 95 people, 50% of them are immediately getting a job for the common good. Look, work for the common good, and we've put a lot of work into it, money, threats are there, the mob is threatening them, calling them on the phone, and then the court is actually requalifying him with the state's attorney's participation in the work for the greater good, and this 95% means parole. 10 convictions we have fines and some confiscation of the benefits of a criminal offence, so where is the goal of criminal policy, please? What are the principles that can suspend these general and special preventive, preventive expectations? They're gone. We need to fix this. This is what the Croatian public expects of you. If it's a lack of financial support, we'll give it to you, But do whatever it takes to do your job independently. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29250	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Karolina Vidovic Kristo.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29251	Ladies and gentlemen, Martin Heger-Humboldt of the University of Berlin said in a conversation the higher the level of corruption they are higher taxes and it is greater poverty in society. Clearly, the lower the level of corruption, the lower the taxes and the greater the well-being and satisfaction in society. This report is evidence I really must say this in this way is not my intention to demean anyone, but this report must be called arrogant and ignoring not only to us representatives but also to Croatian citizens and to common sense. This report is filled with tables claiming that the DORH's up-to-dateness is 100%, and the fact and truth that the whole of Croatia knows is that the DORH is a key institution for which Croatia is in the wrong of corruption, which is the cause of social injustice, high taxes and civil inequality. In accordance with the law, the DORH is obliged to detect and prosecute illegal activities, and to this end Croatia has different auxiliary bodies that assist the DORH, police, Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering, Tax Administration, etc. But we're going in a row. For 20 years, the DORH has been managed by the structure of a state attorney whose main winemaker was Mladen Bajic, who is an exemplar of a politically-adjusted understanding of the law by the principle that Marshal Broz said that some judges stick to the rights as a drunken vessel. The spiritual successor of the marshal Broza, Ivo Josipovic, claimed during the award of Mladen Bajic, that Mladen Bajic had a good approach because he started fighting corruption when political conditions were met. In translation, he praises the state's attorney for not applying the laws but is awaiting a political order when and to whom they are applied. To the lawyers Josipovic and Bajic, the laws are gum tires, and this is the fundamental problem of state and society. In Croatia, the rule of law has been suspended, and the DORH is involved. Here's proof of that. Tomislav Jelic, an activist in the fight against corruption, and a volunteer and wartime military disabled Homeland War, has been penalised by several officials for privatising Croatia's 2014 insurance. Jelic gathered a group of experts and collected evidence that proves the following, through inside information. Croatian citizens are damaged by a minimum of 4 billion kuna in privatisation, it is that Adris bought Croatia an insurance for 920 million kuna, and on the day he took over you just paid off a loan of 640 million kuna to buy the Hotel Imperial in Dubrovnik. On the day of the takeover, Croatia's insurance had significantly higher funds on the account than Adris paid for buying it, and when taking its 150-year tradition, the market share in Croatia and BiH, and in particular real estate, then the damage of around 4 billion kuna and excessively accounted for. Namely, Croatia's insurance has properties in all Croatian cities as a rule in the centres. Only the building on Ban Jelačić Square in Zagreb has a huge value because having such an object on the main square of the capital is a unique value. Ladies and gentlemen, the DORH has done nothing on this issue even though the State Audit of Croatia has officially determined that Croatia's privatisation of insurance is illegal. Adris, who is an important shareholder of a deep-seated state in Croatia, deploys his people to all key places in Croatia through its executive, Andrej Plenkovic. So here you have this Damir Vangelic, who is the executive of the Adris group, and the state has appointed him president of the INA Supervisory Board, and personally participated in the takeover of Croatia's insurance by the Adris group in a criminal manner described. Yes, Vangelic was a Croatian defender and deserves praise for it, but Vangelic also participates in the Adriatic corruption that impoverishes the Croatian nation and the Croatian state. Such a man will now have billions in the reconstruction of Zagreb. That's unacceptable. From this place in HS, I find that the body financed by Croatian citizens, which is responsible for the prosecution of crime, protects this crime because there is no excuse that even after six years, this crime has not been prosecuted. I am convinced that the vast majority of DORH employees are fair and moral, but as in all other institutions, the problem is management, i.e. in the lead. In the DORH, I make it clear to you that the influence on the judiciary and the concealment of crime are a criminal offence, because of your illegal activities, Croatians are 26th in all of the 27 EU countries. Be aware that the time of the bill will certainly come. And now I'm handing you a criminal application in the case of Croatia's insurance so you don't have to dig through the closets because they're certainly full of the corruption cases you're hiding.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29252	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Angelko Strick.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29253	Vice-President of the HS, chief state attorneys, state secretaries, colleagues and colleagues. So every report on the work of state institutions aims to improve this system, to see what is not good in that system and to see how the methods can fix it, and all in order to have a better and better society. This report, consisting of 193 pages of text, shows that 2/3 of this report speaks of effort, diligence, the work of state attorneys, state, county i.e. County and municipal levels. Of course it's commendable. However, I did not find one review anywhere in that report that all the threats of DORH employees face. So we have under the protection of judges, journalists, civil activists even there were cops, but I haven't found any data on how many employees mean state attorneys, any state, county, municipal level is protected. Then, on the page. 34 you have reviewed the structure of criminal charges per applicant, divided into two categories, the police and others. I wish you'd put this in a little bit more detail, like Customs, State Inspectorate, Local Self-Government and Citizens, and then we'd see how many anonymously important applications there are. If we had 2016 of these other 14,000 discards, 2017 14,000, 2018. 12000, 2019. 8,000 now you imagine how much effort and work the state's attorney's staff had to invest to report you, and for most of them they didn't know they'd be rejected. Weeks and weeks of work, and if it were a little bit more specific, maybe this topic would come differently. Or falsely reporting a crime is a felony. There is also no record of whether and how many applications, the proceedings have been initiated due to false reporting of criminal offences. Also, on page 136, you are talking about combating drug abuse. You are saying that a number of municipal and county state attorneys are calling for the work of police officers to be strengthened. One part I can agree with you there, because on the one hand we have the number of growth addicts, and on the other hand the less and less seized. Among other things, this is where you state one case in Osijek where it's because of one, where 21 people have been reported. It means consummations, addicts, not drug dealers. Well, I guess our goal is to fight the dealers effectively. Among other waste water analyses, it is evident that since 2011 cocaine has been growing in Zagreb and that the percentage is growing, and among other things it is another indicator of drug abuse. Then, in 2016, here in the Croatian Parliament, I held a press conference for stealing weapons from a Varazdin police warehouse. 153 pieces of weapons have disappeared, a weapon that defended Croatia, Kalashnikovs, snipers, scorpions etc. That's when I called DORH and SOA to do whatever it takes to cover it up. And today I'm taking that attitude, but that case is literally getting more and more malignant. Two, three months ago, in Lestakovec a few miles from Varazdin, a corpse was unearthed that led to the theft. The press says the killers came from Serbia and no one knows about it for five years. Well, that's another example of the work or the negativity of the State's Attorney's Office, or I repeat it again because abuse, anonymous reporting, the system is burdened and not able to do all that should be done, which is organised crime which is the key to the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29254	We have replicas. Dear Representative Maria Jelkovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29255	Thank you very much. My dear colleague, you touched the anonymouss. I agree with you that a really significant part of the resources is being spent on solving these anonymous reports, and we have seen from the report that most of them have been rejected, which means they were unfounded. And I wonder if this is the best way to really pay attention, that is, to solve all anonymouss, and in this way spend resources, or maybe we can resort to some other model to adequately protect people who report criminal acts without being solved by any anonymous application. Say what you think about it?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29256	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29257	Dear colleagues, I have no doubt that these anonymous women are writing to the maids of Dolco, the employee of Vartex or... It's what people in the system write about criminals to load the system. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Among other things, you have one anonymous application since 15.2.2019, where one director is registered, the press office of the State's Attorney's office is worse, it's anonymous. And now I'm asking myself if the writer of that anonymous came to the State's Attorney's Office, handed it over, and the State's Attorney knows that he's the applicant, and that he filed a false application, or the State's Attorney's office left it out just to hurt a man. It was known to be false because in 2015 it was not the Director, since 2018 it was the Director.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29258	The next one is the esteemed representative Damir Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29259	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Strick, apparently this topic is related to anonymous applications, mostly anonymously very current. And here's a colleague who actually opened it, and that's what you've opened it up. I think he's saying enough, in fact, that 99.6 applications that were filed to USKOK were rejected by the citizens. That says enough how much it actually burdens the system itself just to file such anonymous criminal charges. We heard from the state's attorney, i.e. the chief state attorneys, it's not just criminal charges that satisfy the form, so that they could be called criminal charges, but the State's Attorney's office has a duty to act on the grounds that they're being delivered and therefore the large ones are burdening the system themselves. So I think it's high time that we might consider changing exactly, so the rules that regulate this issue to actually direct that energy and that force where it really is needed in the fight against corruption.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29260	A fellow Habib, of course, I think it's primarily the state's attorney's office. So they decide who they will question, whether and how wide they will go into these investigations and scouts. And it all rests and ends with them. When they want to be quick and efficient, here's where I have the same thing as applying. It's possible to solve everything in five days. Here is a 19.5.2011 Mr. Nice, likable Ring has made threats to a police officer. The 24th is a powerful verdict. It was five days to get rid of everything. He committed a crime, made an eyewitness, the police filed a report, heard witnesses, the state's attorney's office filed charges, held a hearing, and he gets a sentence of six months in prison that changes for 60 days of community service. It means anything. If you want, it's possible to do everything quickly and efficiently.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29261	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Vesna Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29262	Dear vice president of HS, the respected state's attorney general. We have a report on the operation of the DORH for 2019. on 194 pages showing the movement of the number of resolved and pending cases and the number and structure of the perpetrators both the official and the official. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 1812 persons were employed in all state attorneys, which is 40 employees or 2,26% more than in 2018. A total of 42 state lawyers were established in the Republic of Croatia on 31 December 2019. In all state attorneys on 31 December 2019, 636 state lawyers and their deputies acted as a reduction compared to the previous year when that judicial duty was exercised by them in 638. It is important to stress that it is during 2019. 17 deputy state attorneys cleared. In the state's attorneys' offices, 1176 employees were employed by 179 state's attorneys compared to the previous year, and their numbers were increased by 10. I point out that it is in 2019. Only 16 legal practitioners employed, which is important for the state's legal profession, but it's still too little. It was not until after five to six years when no competition was called for the trainees at all. The county state attorney's office predominates the age structure of officials aged between 60 and 65, while in USKOK the largest number of deputy directors aged between 40 and 45. In DORH, the highest number of officials aged 60 to 65 is. It should be noted that no judicial officer has acted in office since 2019. Not under 30 years of age, which speaks of everything about the subsequent acquisition of the conditions for the appointment of a deputy municipal state attorney to which you have spoken. On the other hand, there is an increase in the number of age group officials over 55 working in the first degree. It is particularly worrying that at the level of county state attorneys, more than 57% of officials over 55 are in the first degree. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. There were 55 or 8% of resolutions really less The report states that the reason for this was likely to be sought in the age structure of the solver, perhaps referring to sickness. The performance indicators established on the basis of the number of cases resolved in the national courts and the number of resolutions actually present at work show that in the period from 2016 to 2019. The rate of urgency increases as well as the number of resolved items per resolver and the time of resolution is reduced. So those who work are even more burdened. Data on the movement of objects indicate that it is in 2019. 23% of cases received by the resolver more than in 2018. At the same time, the number of resolved cases is influenced by the fact that on average 10% of resolvers are not present at work. In particular, it should be pointed out that out of 103 million 176 thousand 631 kuna, 80.21% and 82 million, respectively, 759 thousand were intended exclusively for the costs of representation in international arbitration, in accordance with the provisions of Art. C.E. 76.C. 2. The DORH Act. This amount represents almost a double increase compared to the previous year when it was 42 million more. Wouldn't it be logical to use most of these funds for representation in international arbitration for further education of judicial officials and advisors in the state's attorneys? Wouldn't it be in our best interest to strengthen the capacity of our state's attorneys so that they can adequately fight crime and corruption in our society? The report also states that the confiscation of the property benefit would be more successful and more effective should be proposed to determine the provisional measures, however, a financial investigation should be carried out prior to the proposal of provisional measures, and these investigations cannot be carried out without financial experts because in 2014. In the USKOK four councils of county state attorneys established in the Department for the Research of Property Benefits acquired by criminal activity so far, no experts in the field of tax and audit finance are employed in any department. Therefore, it is obvious that if we in the social community are important to have an effective state attorneyate capable of combating corruption and organised crime, we should invest in the education of experts at all levels in the state's attorney's office, otherwise none of the effective fight against corruption and crime. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29263	We have one replica of the distinguished representative of Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29264	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. Dear colleague Nadj. In your presentation, you've elaborated on how many employees we have, how many officials we have, and I think that lab says everything. So, on the one hand, we have to get the highest-quality people to work in the state's attorney's office, in order to even get to a certain position they have to pass education. That's a relatively small payoff when you see the ratio of education, knowledge and everything else, but then you get perception. There's no one who has no perception of the state of justice that it's bad. So you ask someone where you work, he'll say I'm a doctor or I don't know a carpenter or anything, and when you ask someone where you work, then he quietly suits you in the state's attorney's office, instead of being proud of it all together. So we've turned some things upside down and we need to give the answer so we can take a step further.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29265	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29266	I thank my colleagues for the replica. Therefore, it is evident that we should work on education and empowerment of the capacity of state attorneys. I think the state's chief attorney, she said she thought the Justice Department would meet and support her in this intention to strengthen the state's attorneys. I don't think it's necessary to move from the Ministry of Justice and the Administration that if anything else is to be lifted, the tent until the conditions are obtained, until the financial resources are obtained, don't strengthen yourself and for the education and the equipment because we're watching, I guess there's not enough information equipment, there's not even a car, so that these people will work if there's nothing to do with the state's attorneys. Of course, then it's a perception that they're also incompetent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29267	Next individual debate representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29268	The state's attorneys here would just ask a few questions, but first of all, I'm going to have to repeat what I've been saying all along that DORH is part of the judiciary, and the most important thing for the development of a state is legal security. In Croatia, citizens in all polls among the first 5 things are the first 5 things the judiciary is, not to repeat, the judiciary, the judiciary, the judiciary, the judiciary, the judiciary. For what? Because people see that the influence of justice policy is enormous. You remember the press conference of Andrej Plenovic and the former state attorney, now Deputy State Attorney Cwitan, where they hold a press conference together. That compound is incompatible. Fate power, the state's attorney's office is the second pillar of power, and that's that legal certainty. So the impact of justice policy is a key problem for the development of the Republic of Croatia. And that's why Slavonska 9. Public procurement, in public procurement, we could talk for days about how much more competitive and better companies are, we can list examples now, I'm not going to name anyone and examples now, but they've been destroyed for setting up public procurement, either in JANAF, in Kovacevic's club, or in any other black dark mist of di and force, affecting the holding of entrepreneurs who would like to invest. Then we bring in businessmen like Danko Končar, where the state of shipbuilding gives him billions to survive shipbuilding in contractual restructuring. The SDP government then praises this model to this day that Danko Končar builds his own empire, buys Medena hotels, buys certain complexes where Brodotrogira workers work in those places, doesn't receive pay, and shipbuilding is extinct. What's this all about? Because, for example, we have here every year a report from the State Auditor, each year, auditing that their opinions referred to the DORH and I seek an answer to what is being taken on these issues. Non-intentional spending of funds, e.g. In shipbuilding, if someone has given a billion 2, 3, 5 from the shipbuilding budget then it must be for shipbuilding, and it is not questionable, it buys hotels and does not pay workers. So how would all of us around here feel if we weren't getting paid for Christmas? What's the legal certainty here? So it was with my Dalmatinian workers who had been bleeding for years to bring some Italian here who used them, he didn't pay to destroy everything in my Chetino area. So in us tunnels, in us roads are made to other fields to see how, next to the owner, it's not how tunnels are dug to the owner of the field, all that's done is up front. So perception is important. I'm not saying that inside the system there are no people who would do their job boldly, but perception is what it is and that's why we don't have an investor. Because in every city, local self-government has a mystery of 10% if you're not that 10% won't talk to you, so it's either our investor or our diaspora man, so how many people have just gone with huge capital that would triple investment here. Well, it's not because of us first, we first by corruption. Here's telecommunications, only in Croatia can the state's attorneys teleoperators set their facilities without a building permit, and that's done, ripped out, burned out. Base stations match them with whatever will, illegal, no one roars, and the worst internet we have is that corruption has succeeded in its intention that the company that has the biggest profit, the foreign company in the Republic of Croatia is pulling that money out. So we have a million examples of working class, from workers who work, they don't take their wages, what's a crime, by man, by God, by what ideology. Well, workers don't receive 7, 8 months' pay and we act here under these lights, stolen, what are we going to act like? Is this our country, just, just? And this Danko Končar with his lawyer team connected from the former state government of the Republic of Croatia to some of his dark, deep clubs. And that's the problem. It wasn't just this one from JANAF he's just one leg of everything that's going on in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29269	We have a few replicas. First respected representative Ante Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29270	Thank you, Chairman, Mr. Sanader. Dear state attorneys, dear colleagues Bulj, the affair you listed is only one in a series of those we have been reading about for the last 30 years on a daily basis. Every once in a while, a new one pops up. Croatia has become a country within which neither the little child nor the parent who raises that child, and then neither the grandmother who should enjoy her pension by raising their grandchildren have any form or letter "b" from the very future. The verdicts and the length of the court proceedings are not the same in the context of ordinary citizens, let us remember the gentleman who called Lovri Kupčević something during the pre-election campaign in the town of Split, and is spotlessly condemned with the natural compensation of certain material assets. What is crucial is the question of condemnation that, however, what about the compensation of the funds that someone said we'd grumble inside a certain dirty work.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29271	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29272	Thank you very much. The bear dog barks, condemns him, the grandmother sells onions, the chapel, condemns her. In the market, she produced herself. Someone takes, the more they take a million, in a few days the Minister of Ex-Smurpers Minister and that's it. It's a mistrust in the judiciary. I'm doing it again. Inside the system, there is probably energy and the grill of certain people who want to solve it, but the prime minister cannot hold a press conference with the state's attorney on any matter. Because it's incompatible, it's a dictatorship of the Prime Minister. It is a dictatorship and we must do so in the legislative body because we are parliamentary democracy to say that Andrej Plenkovic introduced a dictatorship with that press conference because he took away the legitimacy that stems from the law and the Constitution, the independence of the judicial bodies primarily of the State's attorney. And that's the key problem. The more you steal in Croatia, the less hot potatoes you clean if you sell your product you go to jail.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29273	The next replica is the esteemed representative Vesna Vucilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29274	I thank the chairman. Dear colleague Bulj, you've opened a very good topic and it's an investment rating of the Republic of Croatia. Croatia is not a desirable investor, they bypass us in a wide port. One reason is legal uncertainty. The reform of the judiciary is required, and since you opened the payout topic, I must remind you that health care professionals at Nashko Hospital who also covid hospital welcomed Christmas last year without pay for November. So if the state, the ministry, or HZZO behaves as we can then expect private entrepreneurs to behave differently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29275	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29276	Yes, the mouth is full of that legal certainty. Look, you just mentioned the crisis, the covid crisis where medical personnel are working bloody hard to protect our people, i.e. to ensure the functioning of the health system. The same problem as you have mentioned now is also in Knin General Hospital called Veteranska and General Hospital, Croatia's pride di medical staff traveling from Sinja hundreds of miles from Drnište, from other parts of the Knin hospital do not receive travel expenses. The Knin Hospital symbol of victory is Knin, a symbol of victory. Storm '95, everybody paints, and medical staff doesn't get paid now. Here's not receiving, excuse the travel expenses. And there's no legal certainty, no security elements. But apparently with the Mayor of Spider when he owns the county, nor the Minister of Beros forces to correct it because they are obviously networked within the system, and the system does not give a solution. The state's attorney has to offer us a solution to vote with the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29277	There is another replica, distinguished representative Nino Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29278	Dear Representative Bulj, I follow and appreciate before we become colleagues your work among people and work in the field. You've been recognized as some kind of regiment's grandstand who'll be the first to enter the field to see injustices like what's going on in Brodotrogir where people are half a year without pay. And you speak constantly of the vacated Zagora of Dalmatia, and of Slavonia, and of the Face, and of other parts. But our sad reality is that any programme of economic recovery or any story of investments, unfortunately, must begin with the story of a corrupt octopus, i.e. A justice which clearly is not or has no political will to come... Because the elemental question after 7 years in the EU why the automotive industry has invested so much in Slovakia opened jobs, why so many factories were opened in Poland and not in Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is enough to see the affair Krš – Fallen to see how long the capillaryly goes through municipalities, counties, public enterprises, agencies, to the ministries. And all the talk about economic recovery is basically the story of justice.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29279	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29280	I agree. Legal certainty in the Republic of Croatia for investors and people who would like to work on the basis of competitiveness, based on offers, quality base, we have essentially left everything behind. We left energy to corruption. And that's, you know what potential that is. And this energy such as Krš – Falled wind power plants 2 billion kunas per year pay citizens of our Republic through accounts to foreign investors not in the interest of citizens. Banks, our banks take 4 billion kunas a year's commission and fees, not interest. Yearly, yearly. Tele operators are the only ones acting like this in the Republic of Croatia. I'm not against development, though, but I'm just about to get the telephony operators to act like they're in their own countries, and that's the only sea legislator and government. But he doesn't want it because it's corruption. Why is Croatia first in corruption? Why are people leaving? Well, we're for God's sake. We gave all our resources through corruption, and we did not invest a kilo of wanted in the highway produced in Croatia, and the ironworks fell apart.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29281	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Anka Mrak Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29282	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished state attorneys and state secretaries, colleagues and colleagues. Of course, when it comes to the debate on the work of the State's Attorney's Office, we should not be surprised that we are all actually talking about the state of justice together. Not so long ago we talked about reforms. I feel like we've given up everything now. No one mentions reform in the judiciary or any other branch anymore, and it seems to me that in fact the battle of all battles should be applied to the situation in the judiciary no longer being as it is. Let's go a little bit as they judge us, how the situation in the judiciary is assessed by citizens, that is, how we are assessed by different EU institutions dealing with this. An institution that speaks of what perception citizens have of the state of justice in their country, Croatian citizens in their country's judiciary, not that we are among the worst, but of all 27 EU members, we are the last, very worst. We are second in line, right behind our Slovenian neighbours by the number of judges per 100,000 inhabitants. We're third in line to how much GDP we spend on the judiciary, and then another interesting piece of information. So when judges are self-evaluating, then 55% of our judges believe that judges are not making progress on other grounds but on other grounds they are making progress, not in their ability and experience, while here, the European average is 25%. And now we come to the DORH a little bit, and what we all know is that God does not enjoy the reputation or trust of the public. It's bad that it is. I'd be happier and I'm sure everyone would be happier if it were different, but we have to be aware of reality. People have the impression that it is subject to pressure, both political and economic powers. There's always talk of a selective approach in which some aren't allowed anything, and some go through just about everything. About drawers and cabinets that valuable employees filled with evidence of the crime of all kinds, but eventually everything was stopped. Why? Because of someone's political or economic power. Not to mention that totally bizarre case of a former state attorney because we're actually discussing his work right now. This is a debate on the work of the DORH for 2019 when, in fact, the affair with this mass theater really filled the headlines and it did not help to strengthen the reputation or strengthen trust in the DORH, even more. Then let's take it one step further. Every half a year or a year we can see who was the subject of that year, where there was a spectacular arrest in the early morning, in the sweatshops, they were combed, they were torn apart, then they were found, then all the journalists were where they were arrested, then all the journalists and all the media were where, when they went out and at the end of it, at the end of it all, what turned out to be? Processes that last for years and decades, the public who in the beginning declares these people guilty, and we never know whether or not our judiciary's final decision is truly guilty. Even they don't get the chance to clear their name if they're not guilty, but neither the Croatian public nor the state get the satisfaction or return of at least a piece of stolen money if they're guilty. I'd like to ask you and me and all of us four questions. Is the problem just the judges and their work and the organisation of the courts? Is there a problem with laws? Is the problem a skilled lawyer that courts and state attorneys can't handle? Is the problem with political pressure and corruption? When I think about it, I think the answer to all these four questions is partly yes. And imagine, if we were to live in a country where there is no magic wand every year, we would be able to do what we know best, but with a sincere desire, to really solve one of these problems, then I'm sure that when the report comes and we should vote on it, it would be completely different and evaluated and voted on, rather than what will be on this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29283	We have a few replicas. The first is a respected representative of Rada Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29284	Ma'am. Tarritash, as you seem to know about the emergency protocol, here we are, convinced ourselves, and now we have spared the state's attorney because we are still discussing the report for last year, which is related to, we have not been able to agree here or here in the Parliament on an investigative commission for possible irregularities related to post-war renewal, and we have received, as it is, whether the DORH reacted extremely urgently in a way that then may not be possible for us because we know, when the DORH starts the reconnaissance or investigation that we can't, of course, use that documentation. So, I'm wondering if we know anything about some emergency protocols and when this urgency is happening, and who decides on such urgency, what needs to be investigated urgently?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29285	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29286	Thank you very much, colleague Boric. So, there's a lot of questionnaires that are above our heads, and we're reading something, some papers coming to us, we're getting some real insight. Imagine what kind of questionnaires are above the heads of our fellow citizens who listen to and watch us and do not give God, indeed water on certain matters of account. So, the last case we have, which is that in the area of Banovina, the houses that were built in the postwar reconstruction, have collapsed. It's been established, it's been warned, the DORH is on its way to work, we've asked to find out who they were, who they were, who they were, and who they were working for, not to hang someone, not to hang them, not to stone them all now, but never to happen again. If it were, if one house had been torn down, that would be it. So, what did our office say? That he couldn't because.../incomprehensible/... file was sent, until the prime minister said and knocked on the table, you have to. It's wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29287	Next replica, distinguished representative Ante Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29288	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues of the Dark-Taritash. To your presentation, I would add that justice as such is certain that there are decent individuals, people who work hard to earn bread every day and make judgments. On the other hand, there is an objective problem with legal legislation, which has been passed on a weekly basis whose quality and coverage has long become a question. For example, in Helsinki, for example, at the level of a year 66 cases are solved by a judge while, for example, in the Republic of Croatia, about 300 cases are solved at the level of a year. A fact that is even more paradoxical than any judge has, for example, a second-degree court in Helsinki on 60 judges and 60 counselors annually solves about 4,000 cases. In Croatia, in particular at the County Court in Zagreb 40 judges are resolved at year level Incredibly 16,000 objects. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29289	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29290	Thank you very much for your question. I'm thinking technically, so that's how I grew up, that's how I'm educated, and that's how I think and think in pictures, and I always experience things like that. So if we want to do something then we all have to invest something in it. If we want to get quality judges then it is for them to be, to be well educated, to be well educated, to be educated all their life and to have, in principle, practice in the territory of Croatia, not when I get the answer that one court judges in one way, the other in another way. But what are we all doing together? They have low wages, they work in inadequate conditions, and indeed anyone who passes points at them and says, "Look, these are the judges who judge in that way." So we all have to, so we have to change the laws and agree that the laws are operational, so no one does. The scale of the law in stone, if it's not right, change it. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29291	Next replica, distinguished representative Nino Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29292	Dear colleague Mrak Taritaš I wish to give you credit for seeing the simple thing that was right in front of us all but I have not heard anyone else say it today it is actually giving this report of work from 2019, in the meantime the crown and the earthquake happened and it seems to us it was a long time ago, but this is the time of the Attorney General Jelinić and I am sorry that he is not here today to ask him a few questions about that period and that work. From the fact that he was sitting next to Milan Bandic, next to him in HNK, who is his defendant in the process until this pseudo-Donassonian affair because what is most regrettable in the whole thing is not only that he was a secret association, in Italy because of an affair.../incomprehensible/... the government fell in its own time because there can be no secret state past the state without control, but the additional shame is that it was also a false association where a certain Cedomir Vukić called Ceda was stuck with a large town in Serbia on the basis of some papers he had obtained in Italy, and then it was transferred to us by this pseudology where our chief state attorney sits in Chad's company, stuck. [[Intruder: Time.]] Here's a confession once again on what you saw who we were supposed to be today, and it's gone.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29293	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29294	Thank you very much, colleague Rasdic. So, we have a few things here, one thing for you is that we are technically discussing this report, the other thing is that you are discussing professionally, the third thing to discuss with, say, emotion, the fourth thing politically, and the fifth thing to see every state attorney behind his duty shouldn't go in a way that partially embarrasss that institution which is rather than advance the work. I was deliberately, really deliberately in my debate referred to that 2019 and to me this bizarre, bizarre situation with then chief state attorney who, in time, did not recognize and did not say some things in time did harm. Because you can't, when you're leaving, you're supposed to improve it with your work, not when you're leaving, that you're always hurting the reputation of the institution you're on. And then, of course, the citizens, they read you as they read it. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29295	The next replica, the esteemed representative of Angelko Strick.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29296	Dear fellow Members, you highlighted four questions in your discussion and immediately answered those questions. However, perhaps we should talk a little bit about the priorities of solving crimes. The source of every crime and corruption is money, if you're paying for something, it's visible, so you need to get cash. If we consider that Zagreb has 800,000 inhabitants and that every 100 people in Zagreb take a 350 kuna narcotic during the week, it means that about 3 million kunas a week, that money should be washed away, invested, and there is a source of crime, corruption and everything else. It means cash, and you only come to cash by the foundation or through organized crime, narcotics, weapons, human trafficking or goods. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29297	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29298	Thank you very much for your replica. So, when it comes to the City of Zagreb there is indeed a series of research but this is not a topic of drugs in the City of Zagreb at all, and you can find out everything if you will, if you will not find out anything. So you can do an analysis of wastewater in the City of Zagreb and from the analysis of wastewater in the City of Zagreb you can see exactly whether the use of opiates is increased or not, and these analyses otherwise show that the largest use of opiates in the City of Zagreb is for the weekend. That's what you call it. It's those who have money and who can afford it. But listen to us all together a little bit in this debate, each of us can really get out of this debate a little bit more, out of a little bit less, you can pull out the questions that we've been asking ourselves. And that's why I'm always saying that I'm technically thinking, I'd ask which, so let's see what the problems are, let's see what our priorities are, and I don't think that someone can come and change it now, but let's at least change something a year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29299	Next individual debate, the distinguished representative Vesna Vucilovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29300	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Respected chief state attorneys with an associate, respected secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues, this report has one significant amount of statistical data, a large amount of information that hides more than it reveals, but we're already used to it. In this debate, I will look at two, two things, two elements of which are one of the litigation cases, and the other are the famous inventions of the government of Zoran Milanovic by a beak named pre-departure settlement or pre-departure proceedings. Namely, litigation from labour disputes seems to have become a rule, not an exception, and what we can expect in the private sector if the state as an employer acts as if collective agreements do not exist and violates them. And that's what the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Health are ahead of. This is seen by the number of cases, the Ministry of Health is an infamous champion and in 2019 there were 880 litigation cases from work-law disputes, and few fewer in the MUP 790. It is mainly about overtime, field accessories and similar rights, and often even such disputes are engaged by external lawyers, although judgments are in the largest number of cases in favour of employees because these rights belong to them under collective agreements. I will only give an example of KBC Osijek, which has three lawyers with a legal exam, but for these disputes they hire external lawyers. One of them is Mrs. Sanja Pasult, who in two years has charged half a million kuna for court representation services. Most of the disputes were lost, of course. She is also the town councilwoman of HDZ, and is currently employed as chief adviser at the EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds with Minister Natasa Tramišak. Perhaps it is also one of the reasons for the poor level of trust of our citizens in the judicial system. Also, we all know we're missing medical personnel. Over the past 10 years, only nurses have left just 7,500, and as one of the reasons they listed exactly and large, a large number of these overtime hours, conditions etc. And a man has to ask himself why he has outside counsel's services, and there's no money for nurses. Pretense settlements, tea strange beaks are a story to yourself. I must note from this report it is apparent that the monetary demand of the Republic of Croatia has also grown dizzy. From 30 million kuna 2016 they came to 288 million kuna in 2019. And now we come to an interesting part where the report says that certain changes to the legal framework are skillfully used to reduce the demand of the credentials. Namely, companies that have concluded a pre-demand settlement under the Financial Business and Pre-bank settlement Act and have already reduced the claims of all creditors and thus the Republic of Croatia are attached to newly established companies. The newly established companies then, shortly after the establishment, submit a proposal for the opening of a pre-determined procedure but now under the bankruptcy law, are trying to further reduce the previously reduced demand of creditors. In doing so, these same claims from the pre-departure settlement before accession and do not try to settle, and very often is not respected for a period of 2 years that regulates Article 32(2). It's a bankruptcy code. These legal acrobatics seek to reduce claims by as much as 50% and more which the Ministry of Finance does not accept but which can be done by small and medium-sized entrepreneurs who are often forced against the wall and I would dare say even somewhat appreciated. This is a problem that is somehow constantly pushed under the carpet, because obviously those who have financial and time-consuming means go to excruciating opponents, the reduction of demand, and remains the fact that these pre-warrant agreements are the noose around the doors of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs that we often highlight in this high home as the healthiest and most prospective part of our economy. And in the end, I have to ask a question about the pension funds that invested money for our pensions in the next group, Metronet, Magma, Dalekvod and Optimus and there was a loss of 4.8 billion kuna for which no one ever answered. through pre-fashion settlements right now. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29301	We have one replica of the distinguished representative Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29302	Well, here's a question she'd ask you because you encouraged me to discuss it means with these small and medium-sized entrepreneurs who first close down companies that have failed and open up new ones, but they're doing it big. So you have the same situation with Brodotrogir that I'm going to talk about later, so where you have in the last five years three firms that went bankrupt and are constantly opening up new ones. So I'm wondering if you can comment on whether you know this case and what you're saying about the big ones doing the same thing and how to solve it? And does the DORH in these situations have the right to react or, as we heard this morning, there is no room for reaction under the Act on Commercial Companies, the responsibility of the owner and shareholders of the company's obligations, or is there no liability established?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29303	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29304	Thank you very much, colleague, I don't think you've got me right, namely this part of pre-profit deals has been applied to large economic operators, because through pre-fashion settlements were the most endangered small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and they were injured and failed to collect much of their claims. Namely, they have already shown these claims in their income and profits accounts, paid and if they did business positive and tax on profits and paid both VAT and eventually stayed actually because I call these pre-profit deals to a strange beak because they have thrown into very large problems a very large part of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and it is evident that these legal acrobatics are being made. It is precisely the large economic operators who are working to avoid paying their obligations.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29305	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Matko Kuzmanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29306	I thank the chairman. Dear state lawyers, respected members of the Ministry of Justice and the Government, on the report itself and on its scale were mostly told by my colleagues Grbin and counterpart Jaksic, what I would like to look back on here, which is the issue of the institution itself. What is an institution? There is an excellent definition that says the institution guarantees democracy, and how advanced society is the most trusted in its institutions, and because of the mistrust of citizens in state institutions and the perception that crime and corruption go unpunished, it is the same perception on never lower branches. The lack of a sense of justice is what chokes the most and destroys the trust of our fellow citizens and destroys the tissue of our young country. And now that you've given our fellow citizens insight into this report to read the following, they might be able to read this. Judges of municipal and county courts, municipal state attorneys and deputy municipal attorneys, judicial advisers, lawyers, bankruptcy managers, public notebooks, doctors, police officers, customs officers, municipality chief, administrative referencing, head of administrative department, surveyor, owner of a company, director of a company and employees of a company, agricultural inspector, health inspector, tax inspector and journalist have been reported for the crime of taking bribes. So we could read that to our fellow citizens. So the same fellow citizens who are not institutionally organized, and at times when Croatia was the most difficult thing to see on this earthquake, which unfortunately happened to us from cheerleading groups to various associations to motorcyclists, all of whom were willing and disorganized to help their fellow citizens, while the institutions unfortunately failed. And while these small and institutionally unorganised Croatian citizens are building and saving their country, others are making fun of that same judiciary and those same institutions from neighbouring BiH. We also have recent cases of Žinić and Puljašić, which were launched only after the information was released to the media. So the question is, would these same cases ever have been prosecuted if they hadn't gotten a media epilogue? And so while our honorable little and moral fellow citizens still have more than these other corrupt and wetters in various affairs expect justice, I can't say anything but to welcome you with that favorite sentence of every great Croat, and that's some law state institutions doing their job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29307	We have one replica, the distinguished representative Martina Vlasic Iljkić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29308	Dear Representative, as of this morning, we can read in the media that police vehicles have been spotted outside the city of Požega, that the documentation has been excluded, that the reconnaissance and collection of documents are under way, the search, and right now, after the launch of the Puljašić Pilon affair in the media, which you were talking about. Here we heard the answer today that the attorney's office has been working on a case all these ten months but we can't see a shift. Because if there had been a shift, it would have been of the city's interest from the citizens of the city of Požega and the public to stop the criminal activities of Puljasic and Pilon, not to take place for 10 months, but to do something like that. How do you see the independence of the attorney's office, or is this all a coincidence?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29309	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29310	Thank you, colleague, I still want to believe in the independence of the attorney's work, although I'm not 100% sure. I don't know what to tell you specifically, but I do know what my colleague Puljasic might say to you. I'd say exactly this sentence that I just said, which is some law state institutions are doing their job. However, if he is already proven guilty, he may in time be equipped with the most valuable Croatian prop, which is, of course, the passport next to us in BiH, and he, like most major Croats, can also mock the Croatian judiciary and Croatian institutions. There, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29311	One more, we have another replica, the esteemed representative of Martina Grman Kizivat.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29312	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Matko, you have stated in your presentation that it is in fact the media that are mass and regularly revealing affairs. A colleague Iljkić Vlasic also said that the meaning of an affair in Požega is the result and media activity, so I wonder if maybe you and I could track down to get a salary supplement, given that they are doing a pretty good job to do DORH.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29313	Thank you, colleague Grman, namely I'm sure that in the state's attorney's office most people who work at lower levels honorably and responsibly do their job, but the moment to start a certain procedure is not a problem when someone needs a vineyard, a farmer or a poor person, then they start off without a problem. But when these big ones are called protected sniffers, then the tribune obviously has some political support unless there's a situation like this that's going to get you out of the media. And unfortunately, I have to find that maybe the biggest driver of these corruption affairs that happened not only now but also before, I've only taken these two recent recent recent recent recent recent recent recent recent recent recent recent events, each time they've been exclusively initiated because these affairs have leaked into the media.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29314	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Stephen Nikola Bartulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29315	Here's a thank you. Dear Chief State Lawyer with Associates, I will not specifically refer to the report by my colleague Skoro is a well-explained attitude of the Homeland Movement, I think unfortunately this observation that we have a state of captivity with everything that implies it is true, I often point out that state institutions as if they work and operate in a parallel world, completely separate from the lives of ordinary people and therefore trust has been violated, here is the example of former Chief State Attorney Jelenic, a rather bizarre case all together and I think we can only conclude that such cases continue to raise many questions. So, as one of these same people is actually a closed circle, people rotate in the leading positions in Croatia. And people, of course, are cynical, dissatisfied, they don't get answers in time. I was talking this morning about the proposal to set up an investigative committee on one case from yet a war, it was about an exile from Drniš who had shown me and the documentation that his broken house had actually been restored and that the handover was done, the man still lives in Zagreb without any rights, his house was in the same state as '95, filed a criminal report, tried to get to the competent people, but nothing, at the end of it, nothing, and therefore we have this picture and perception that actually citizens are powerless, our people have the feeling of impotence and that every attempt to change something is in vain and we have to fight it, it's actually one big problem for other areas. I can only talk about the economy about major damage and lost investment because of this situation, so this is not a secret, I am not the first speaker to talk about it today, but the situation is really bad, many have confirmed it today. I would refer to cases of reports of hate crimes. We see this one danger of applying a double standard, a question of who defines what hate speech actually is, it seems to me to some that it serves as an ideological weapon to deal with others who don't share their worldview or attitudes. So there is a tendency to apply it selectively and warned on a current case, just before Christmas is a gentleman who is not in Croatia on his Facebook profile openly called for violence and even murder of believers who go to church at Christmas, so the question is whether or not you are going to do something, whether it is a criminal act, I think it is clear that it is, I think it is also a public appeal to violence and even killing innocent people. Here, so and please do whatever is necessary in that particular case. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29316	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Eric Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29317	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues. I will begin my presentation by quoting or reading an article. 72. Law on State's Attorney's Office. "The main state attorney of the Republic of Croatia is obliged until 30 April of the current year for the previous year to submit a report to the Croatian Parliament." And the fact is that according to the deadlines, the report was passed but given to the Parliament, the second thing is when the Parliament will discuss it, it depends primarily on the chairman of the Parliament itself. However, I'm not sure that the report we received is in accordance with the law. I don't think it's in accordance with the law because we didn't get the state's attorney's report. The title of the report we received is the State's Attorney's Office's report, not the Attorney General. This is the difference between, inter alia, the correct 2018 report and the one which does not comply with the law of 2019. In the last report, data were reported, so the data provided in the report, this is what the data says. So we return to the root language, Croatia is right for both of us, that we will use something that is more idiom and less archaic, anyway. I only come to the conclusion that the State's Attorney's office has changed the lecturer if there is one. And that's one big revolutionary change. The second positive thing is that in this report what I'm reading is that three new municipal state attorneys have been opened. In proportion to that, there has been an increase in the number of employees by 42 employees, of which only 8 in the de facto in the administration is commendable, so in this expansion, there has been a view of efficiency and above all that there is a problem in the human structure, most likely there has been also shown through just and through a report without further ado, but what I am a little saddened by my 59 years, and a lot of us who sit here are also around here, and the constitutional judges are even a little more time-consuming, and so we talk a lot about discrimination not, so we don't talk about discrimination when we talk about gender or sexual equality or about young people, therefore, about men and women. However, the article, or page 13 of this data, shows that 826 jobs have been filled, but is really present at work 646.8 solvers are on average 88.3. In 2019, there were 55 or 8% of resolvers really less to work on why it should be sought in the age structure of the resolvers. If it is a worrying time structure for the State's Attorney's Office, then it can also be true for the Croatian Parliament but also for the Constitutional Court. Namely, without further ado, younger people are much more inventive but there are also us who are slightly older, those who certainly have more experience, so some things are much faster to solve because they have experience of what young people do not have, young people have other things. And far from that, you don't need knowledge and youth and experience in acting. So it's perfectly normal for us to have in the municipal state's attorneys that we have a younger structure, and that we have an older structure in county state's attorneys. Just so explicitly written because I'm now interested in what it means to be a worrying age structure, because it can be an element of people's really discrimination. So either someone is working or not able to work, because then these people end up getting an add-on of 0.5% per addition to an internship not climbing every year, no. Far from these people being paid well. In my opinion, the state of the state of the state of law needs to be improved, no. This but what, I'm going to get a little attached to what my colleague Grbin said I'd like to know the structure of what increased by 19% of the cases and which are related to what was It wasn't put into the system before 2013, whether it was war crimes or something else that wasn't getting old because it might be obsolete. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29318	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29319	Here's to starting with just one note, I'm sorry that I didn't report to my colleague Bartulic on the replica of a member of the Homeland Movement. On his Facebook account, he published a status under which there were comments among other things to be burned, as much as there is no hate speech in our society, and as much as it is a pre-named problem, but I didn't want to talk about it. I wanted to say something here about what I asked about Dank Končar, the owner of Brodotrogir, who hasn't paid the workers a salary since July last year. That's what the State's Attorney General replied to me about that that was if I understood the elements of the crime the procedure would have been initiated, a little bit we came up with some ambiguities you started with Brodosplit, I didn't really mention Brodosplit but Brodotrogir but I think we understood each other and we talked about the same problem. So the workers sent their applications to the DORH but neither did the DORH accept their applications, and from the answer of the attorney general, it seemed that actually the pay default wasn't some problem, so it reminded me of the Law on Commercial Companies that separates the owners from the company's own obligations, right? So now I'm asking who's responsible if they don't pay their wages? Does that mean that payouts aren't the reason for the prosecution, right? I'm going to be a little cynical, so I'm going to say, at a time of dark socialism, it's usually now that it's been said that there's no telling who's been drinking who's paying, but here it doesn't seem to be anything different. So we have a situation where obviously, and in this orderly capitalism, we don't know who drinks and who pays. The only thing we've been able to determine here is that the state's chief attorney and I have been able to tell them that they were the firms in the blockade, so that they don't have any money, and so it seems that it's all regular no one's responsible. But, of course, the blockade is a valid practice of eating, which should be questioned in 5 years 3 so the companies went into bankruptcy in Brodotrogir, and the workers were just transferred from one company to another. No one's responsible. However, if he pays, non-payment of wages is not sufficient to initiate the procedure then it is certainly a breach of the contract signed by Končar and which he literally violates because according to the restructuring plan Končarov Kermas energy has committed to remain employed by 620 workers, and today there are barely 100 workers in the company. In addition, according to the restructuring plan he had to keep at least 60% of the shipbuilding, he opened up a luxury marina in 2014, which was announced as an object that would enable new jobs and modernize production and some kind of progress for Brodotrogir, we can say that at that time we had some optimistic, optimistic views and perhaps even though there was some skeptic, but it is quite clear that from 2014 to today Brodotrogir is only failing and now it is achieved there, set up a defence headquarters of Brodotrogira but of course when it was almost so we can say it all over. There's barely 100 workers still working, and we can say that the question is whether they're working because they don't get paid. So I'll say here and I often think, and even in some, some lines of opposition, we're looking for some hidden corruption, something that happened under the table, but things are presentable here. So it's a breach of contract. So we don't have to look for any hidden motives, deals, conversations at all, it's all clear. So the man destroys Brodotrogir, and the workers leave it. I'd just like to add that I've also asked State Secretary of Justice Juri Martinovic about USKOK officials and subsidists, and I'm glad that he answered that their status will be resolved, but I'll just point out that these people with low wages and were really looking for their raise in 2009, so 11 years these people have been waiting for a raise from their fellow judges. So not only do they have low wages, but they are in an unequal position relative to their colleagues, which the judges who got that raise, which their colleagues who don't work in the jumping departments that don't pass that first-degree check, which is actually a violation of constitutional rights, that we understand, so the contacts are controlled, they They've been under surveillance all along, so to speak. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29320	We have replicas. First respected representative Daniel Spajic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29321	Dear colleagues. You mentioned Mr. Bartulico, who's here now, that someone in his announcements and comments said wrongly against you. I don't know what Stjepo Bartula is guilty of, has he personally offended anyone in public space? I don't think so, and he mentioned Mr. Babic, Mr. Babic personally insults with his Facebook writing, that's one big difference. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29322	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29323	Well, I didn't even say that your colleague Bartulica insulted me, but he set up one thesis that in our society too much and pre-named talk about hate speech so I gave you an example, that a member of your party, the Homeland Movement, means... writes posts on Facebook that are an intense speech of hate and calling for violence, which we finally get served as a form of violence in society. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These things come from your party, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29324	The next replica is the esteemed representative Mako Kuzmanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29325	Dear colleague Peovic. Unfortunately, Brodotrogir is not the first case, and believe me, there will be no final case of such behaviour in Croatia either. What's worse in the end, it'll all be legal. It's out of privatization, someone buys a company, has one company, and then they start 7, 8 companies, so they split it into several companies, so one book is spent, on one income, in one employee, they can't charge themselves, the state takes it down, and we say it all, it was by law. It's a shame to be corrected. And in advance, we need to look at the kind of stuff that happens in our shipyards, in our companies, in all the companies and industrial facilities we've had, in all the social property that we've sold out, this little thing that's left, that these things don't repeat themselves anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29326	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29327	Well, of course not, but what I have to replicate to you again, I mean, no shipyard went well after privatisation, unfortunately privatisation started during the SDP, and just in 2014 Milanovic was at the opening of a luxury marina and was very optimistic about it, but what? We see a pattern, so the thing is that we always have the same pattern, so closing, first there was a fragmentation, so you have a few openings of several small companies, then you have blockades, bankruptcys, pre-banking deals, and then you transfer workers from one company to another. Brodotrogira workers say they no longer know which companies they work in because they move them from one company to another from month to month. Let's not say that union commissioners have completely lost their sense of purpose because when you transfer one employee to another company, he is no longer a union commissioner and workers have lost the ability of union representation in that way at all. So I hope that this headquarters will do something because the workers have now really joined up and have become loud and the media is finally following them even though they have been speaking since 2018 and are in a bad position, the Workers' Front has been with them all along. But I'm afraid the thing is really in the form, as you said. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29328	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Damir Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29329	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, respected state's attorney-general with associates, respected state secretary, co-workers and colleagues. Here's the debate that's been going on for about 6 or 7 hours now, and given Mr. Grbin's opening statement to the president when he asked for a break, and why we're only discussing this report today, I expected this side to be a lot, i.e. that everyone in the SDP will be here and listen bitterly and discuss this report, however, this has not happened. It's not the first time, though. Also, there were a lot of words about the content of this Report, so I would remind you that in 2018, the Law on the State's Attorney's Office was passed, hence the amendments and the additions which he made clear which content must therefore have such a report and which, of course, is now different from those which were before, or earlier reports by the attorney general. I would actually say that this report certainly represents a positive step towards the previous report on transparency and simplicity in monitoring the work of the State's attorneys. However, I repeat, what is today a clear dissatisfaction with the content and style of this Report, i.e. it was actually wanted to show that the same is not transparent, i.e. that the content is not satisfactory. Also, here it was said, on this left hand side of the pay phone, that I am not sure whether a colleague, Tomašević or someone by the SDP, is mentioned that there are no proposals or legal solutions for the more effective operation of the DORH. I have to deny it here, or it's just not true. So either it's malicious or it's not a report read. Therefore, in several places, the State's attorney sets out concrete examples of practices and proposals in order to address them, for example, on page 39 of the report, which refers to the question of the pre-inclusive deadline for the prosecution, she offered a proposal for a solution, and the report also cited an example of the problem of returning the indictment to completion when deciding on its confirmation before the panel, p. 42. Pages 48 and 49 to discuss the problem of temporary measures, etc., etc. Therefore, if we are speaking, then we would do well to get acquainted with matter, but here it is important, as we just saw, that the title was read and found that something in the title was not good but that clearly did not work out. Also during today's debate here was about the length of criminal proceedings, but what is important is to highlight and say that today is the main state attorney's report, not the whole judiciary or the work of the courts. Namely, the State Attorney's Office shall be responsible for the duration of the copies carried out and for the timely decision-making in the criminal application including the conduct and the evidence and investigation. We cannot for the length of the criminal proceedings, for example after the prosecution, of course “guilty” by the State Attorney's Office, this stage of the proceedings is in the jurisdiction of courts or hearing councils. I've already said something in my replica today, but I'm going to mention one more time, I think it's an important topic, and therefore criminal charges, or their numbers, directed by citizens, especially those concerning anonymous criminal charges. So in 2019, out of 19 000 criminal charges filed by police, 18.5% were rejected, however, out of 17 000 criminal charges filed by others, most of them by citizens, nearly 50% were rejected. It is clear that half of all criminal charges filed by citizens are rejected, and in your report you also point out that there are reports stating that they are not supported by evidence but are particularly apostrophe that there are reasons why such criminal charges are filed which are certainly outside the criminal justice zone. On the other hand, the attorney general is required to act on criminal charges but also on any basis on the basis of which there is a reasonable suspicion that a criminal offence has been committed. Moreover, the state's attorney is obliged to act on anonymous criminal charges stemming from a fundamental suspicion that a criminal offence has been committed. When we talk about criminal charges received at USKOK, then there were in total 2019. 1365 and 1102 were filed by citizens, or almost 75%, and 99.6% of citizens were rejected. Therefore, a very simple question is raised, given that according to the positive regulations, a state attorney must act on criminal charges and also on anonymous criminal charges, and given this very high percentage of rejections, so 50% and even 99% respectively, how much time and capacity are actually spent on baseless applications that serve either as means of pressure or as abuses or some personal accounts. In conclusion, I believe that the report delivered is in harmony with the law that was passed right here in this house and as such I believe that it should be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29330	We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Angelko Strick.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29331	My colleague Habiban, here's a day-long discussion about the work of the DORH, our colleagues on the left when they get the inspiration to call everyone and everyone but here at the end of the alphabet but never start from the beginning of the alphabet and call it Bilic. And who's Bilic? SDP's mayor of Ludbreg City. Here's a text from October 6, 2019, so the Madbrew mayor agreed to 5 months. The penalty that he could run again in the election, if he were sentenced to 6 or more, he couldn't run. It's a deal. And now if we were to argue as colleagues on the left, I'd say first, so it's about Mayor Ludbreg, the SDP, the second president of the State Attorney's Council of Clear from Ludbreg. Head of the County State's Attorney's Office, Schmer-Bite from Ludbreg, they're all from Ludbreg. So maybe there's a deal there to be 5 months, that the SDP's can run again and commits a crime of abuse of position? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29332	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29333	Thank you very much. Well, you know my position, fellow Striker, so for me, and I think it's the attitude of our club, corruption or crimes from the domain of corruption, they don't know either party belongings or a party omen. Corruption has its name and last name, and I am saddened to say it, although it will now be angry on the left but it is not generalized that it is always called one and the same party and the beautiful labels of corruption with one party and I repeat, corruption and criminal acts have nothing to do with party membership, it has its name and names and examples, as Angelko or colleague Strick said, we can also list it for so long but I don't think it's fair and it's not correct. I don't think about you, but I don't think it makes sense in this assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29334	Next replica, the esteemed representative Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29335	Well, here I would like to correct you, firstly we have made very concrete proposals on how to improve the quality of this report, and we have just said that the issue of the quality of the entire system, the issues of the amendments that this parliament needs to make, as well as the issue of financial sustainability and further development of the DORH, should therefore be further absorbed, explained in the conclusions and made concrete recommendations, there is no such thing in this report. As a second point, so when we talk about corruption having or does not have a particular sign, then I must remind you again that corruption cases are not only those cases where they were committed by natural persons but also by legal persons, so that the legal person HDZ has been declared responsible for corruption and then we can talk about a party's omen when the party's name is actually the defendant or one who is really responsible for corruption in a particular case, so don't talk about purely individual cases.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29336	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29337	Thank you very much. So here's a little short, so I said that your colleague said there were no suggestions in the report, I listed four pages, I can add one more, on page 53 of the problem of dealing with misdemeanors, but I won't go on, read the report. As for this... Allow me, as far as I'm concerned. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] This last, responsibility of the legal person, you know well what this means and you know the Law on the Liability of Legal Persons for Criminal Crimes, that it follows the responsibility of natural persons or responsible persons. [[Please don't throw it away.]] I'm gonna pull the analogy for this to keep an eye on what you've actually said and how dangerous what you've said. You have a company company, management found guilty, management found guilty, the responsibility of the right person okay, but then that means that all those employees in that company are criminals, that they're thieves. It's an analogy that you've pulled here and you've been pulling and blaming membership all the time, the entire HDZ membership for something that's made by one individual, one individual.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29338	The next replica is the distinguished representative Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29339	Just like every shrink needs his shrink, every lawyer seems to have his own lawyer, and you're here as a lawyer for the state's attorney. I'd like to ask you the following questions on that trail. How do you comment on the fact that we have an independent body first and most important sentence in this report, and that this independent body has one opinion of the entire left hand side of this assembly and one single opinion of its work on the whole right hand side of the assembly, and this is about an independent body that does not have party membership. I'm going to pull your parallel, for example, with the attorney general's report on gender equality where both the left and right sides were unisonly satisfied with this report with my abstention and the restraint of a few. So how do you explain this phenomenon that it is an independent body and that the entire right side praises it while the left side finds reasons for criticism?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29340	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29341	It's your absolutely legitimate right, so I don't know first of all if this is a compliment to understand what you've told me I think you've definitely gone a little too far. I would not agree that the unison is therefore supporting this report on the side of the right. I cited exactly what you said after this seven-hour debate that is contradictory of what you said in your presentations. I cited it as examples they didn't say. That there is something that is not good about the state's attorney's work, the USKOK has, of course, but I think that sometimes it may be necessary in this situation in the country to point out some good examples. I think we'll all agree on that.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29342	The next replica is the esteemed representative Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29343	You've missed your colleague's testimony to the opposition that she didn't read the state's attorney's report. I also read that report at the age when I was not a parliamentary representative. So I can responsibly argue that some parts are repeated especially in the sense that the legislator should fix. From 2015 onwards, your parliamentary majority had the opportunity to do so, and it did not. And speaking of some parts of the report, here I will look back at the reasons for the charges returned, and it has been said since 2014, and especially from 2015 to 2017, the indictments have returned because the courts have taken over the role of entering into whether the evidence was actually sufficiently established. I will also tell you what the report does not say, and it can be read between the lines, it is quite clear that this refers to the cases of Milan Bandic with whom HDZ is in the coalition at the city level and protects him from criminal persecution from 2014 to today. Yes, corruption is not related to the party has its name and last name but the fact is that it is more corrupt within the HDZ ranks.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29344	Thank you very much. It is difficult to answer this question of yours, therefore, and in this very simple, primitive way of not understanding in a negative context I am trying to find words that would illustrate this connection between Milan Bandić and this context. So if we're talking about the accused council and passing the indictments, so 97% of the charges are confirmed on the defendant's council, and I don't think that these 3% who go back to work or get dropped I think it's quite understandable and some minimum figure, I don't think they're really saying in favor of what you're pointing out. And I, too, can confirm from practice that as a state attorney's office may be unsatisfactory with the prosecution council's treatment of them, I can confirm that I, sometimes before the accused council, am also dissatisfied with the conduct of the same accused council where I am told later in the dispute after the indictment has been confirmed that I should have said so on the accused council, and we well know what the role of the indictment is, therefore, to establish the validity of the indictment. So, very strictly defined, therefore, there are always dissatisfied.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29345	The last replica of the distinguished representative, Maria Jelkovac, and I'm sorry I haven't seen you. Here's a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29346	So, 236, this is obviously insulting the MPs, and you didn't even realize what I was talking about. I was talking about what the state's attorney herself stated in her report, which is the fact that the defendant councils are crossing the limits of their jurisdiction, I don't know if you can understand that for an explanation, you can ask the attorney general himself.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29347	This wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you're getting a warning. Next replica, last, Maria Jekovac's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29348	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You have well concluded that during today's debate, in fact, where the topic of the report on the work of the DORH for 2019 is constantly talking about the negative perception of the judiciary, so this is about judicial rulings, the DORH has nothing to do with court rulings. When we talk about long-term procedures and I'd like to ask you to explain once more to the public that DORH's deputies have deadlines that they can't exceed. Therefore, their work is conditional upon certain deadlines and procedures that they conduct, or actions that they conduct, certainly do not exceed those deadlines, nor are the overall judicial procedures lasting because of their work. So I'm asking you to point that out one more time. And it is also visible from the report itself, for example, when we talk about criminal acts against organised crime that out of the 360 applications submitted in that year, state law decisions have been made for all those applications. And that there was a large percentage of the charges, and also in the end there was little A little bit of this repulsing verdict. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29349	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29350	Thank you very much for this colleague Jelkovac, absolutely that, today we're discussing actually I'd say something that's not really on the agenda, but well I'm saying it's not, it's not the first time. So that's exactly what we're saying about the work of the state's attorney's office and, if I may say so under quotes, what's good, which is not their responsibility. So what I wanted to say about sustainability, the longevity of court proceedings, we actually need to put a limit to it. So to what extent there is responsibility if it can say so by the state's attorney's office, and where the problem is later actually in the judicial authority what we actually had an opportunity to talk about when the President of the Supreme Court reports. And another thing that you've noticed well, as far as the deadlines are concerned, and that's what the state's chief attorney in her report has pointed to, in fact, about the re-integration of deadlines from the day of enrolment of the very criminal application in the register where I have this pre-inclusive deadline that causes it if the state's attorney is late with or over that deadline, in fact, to suspend the whole process which represents a major problem for the state's attorney's office which I mentioned as one of the examples where it was actually suggested that this part should change, regardless of which I obviously someone has not heard and understood well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29351	Next individual debate, distinguished Rada Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29352	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Habian, although I don't want to be anyone's lawyer, I don't know if they're in fear of big eyes, but today Mr. Tomašević didn't speak at all, so I think either you weren't in the hall, and here he's accusing himself of how interested others are in the debate. We already said in this assembly that the reports on the work of state institutions in fact do not make much sense, especially when we are dealing with the 2018 reports that we had last year, even colleagues from HDZ were saying that the failure to work our committees according to some reports that should be discussed here because there is a possibility that there might be some questions about the content itself, so here remains a form of what the report looks like, whether there is good statistics, tables, as it is drawn up, whether the report or report is written. So, if the committees were to discuss the missing content, then maybe we'd have a better report here and maybe we wouldn't be sitting here for 6, 7 or 8 hours. And that people need to talk about content that is not about something that in theory and literature is called a minus procedure, so what does not have is probably something that is important. So I'll just repeat what you'd like to see if we had nice-divided chapters then surely in one of these chapters we'd just get, we could see something that's also a colleague on behalf of the Left-Green Block Club and ask, and that's, like, if there are. in the DORH mechanisms that would tell us what they are, how there are actually pressures on judicial officers, so we might also see some data on the breach of measures. Well, I guess we could at least have statistics if we weren't told the details and then we wouldn't ask about the topics here that you said about the judiciary, and of course the cancer of the early Croatian society is the judiciary and everything that colleagues have spoken to the middle or the central or the left here I don't think there should be division on the right and left rather than whether it's something sustainable or whether it's something unsustainable in the Republic. And surely, and that's what we see from this little data that we've seen that's related to the crime that's involved in political crime is really unsustainable, and you know that research shows that when we talk about demographic measures we can try as much as we want these measures and there won't be and our young are leaving, one of the reasons is corruption in the Republic and the possibility that these places don't come true. One of the data is very interesting, I think that's all my colleague Jeckov mentioned is one of the good things in this table is the relationship between how many women and men work in the state's attorneys. So, 70% of women work that they're on duty and that they're in law enforcement, and 80% of all with employees. What does that tell you about women's bribery, so the women they're working on, and here we are, someone's talking about whether it's possible for ejjsms to work or not, and when you look at chapter 4 where they're talking about a material position, they're just talking about a permanent drain of experienced and trained state-of-law and furniture personnel. So how is it possible that this is the first time after 80% of women that we have a state attorney and which is it, it's a very interesting statistic of who can read that we have 25% more trainees than trainees, and later there are no women anymore. Later, therefore, these men are no longer present because they likely conclude after the training period that some other jobs may be better paid. So, where you need the trench work, and that's certainly the work you should be doing in the DORH, there are women, and I really advocate a better position of the DORH if we want to at least solve some of those problems that we've seen here and certainly treat women differently, but then I'd be interested, for example. And if there really are, like, when women work so much, I'm going to ask one day, maybe what kind of an example. There's an emergency protocol when it comes to killing women, which is also an institution, not just a bully. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29353	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Milan Vrkljan.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29354	Dear Mr. Chairman, I will speak here today about whether there is what is in the perception of the Croatian public, which is that there is a huge influence of politics on the state's attorney. And before me today, attorney Caroline Kristo said that societies where there is corruption, societies where there is crime, that societies where taxes are high, and a small standard of their population. There are many examples that we can talk about, but I will say one example and try to explain it to you in a way that is inconclusive that you already have to recognize it or at least those who advise you. Namely, HZZO and Croatian healthcare a few months ago was owed 10 billion kunas today is the debt of 15 billion kuna. At the same time, HZZO has a contract with insurance companies that ensure that all passengers in cars are paid £240 billion in HZZO on the basis of a flat-rate contract, 48 million in kuna is paid to insurance companies, with 170 million kuna each year. When you calculate this to 10,000 damage a year, one treatment of such patients costs 5,000 kuna per person while at the same time staying in the hospital of a banal pneumonia costs that patient about 12,000 kuna. This is a relationship between a state-owned company and a private company, and it is a question of whether these 15 billion kunas that our health care has the consequence that there is imminent nepotism, corruption, crime in this system, and then we can talk about the deep state. In this case, there are no innocents. Why? Because it's the state's attorney's office that subscribing or missing such contracts from county to state level. These contracts are deeply unfair, these contracts are harmful to the state of Croatia and to the population of the Republic of Croatia because these contracts directly harm HZZO, and as a result over 4 million inhabitants of the Republic of Croatia do not have adequate health care as they should and lead to the fact that the health system has bankrupted even the bankruptcy of the entire country. I talked about it six months ago, I was talking about what insurance houses are doing towards HZZO from this pay phone, I think that you from that position you're in should react even to something you heard in the coffee bar, let alone if you heard it from the Croatian Parliament's pay phone. In six months, I haven't heard from HZZO that anyone came to them and asked to show me that contract, nor did one of the insurance companies say that someone called them and said why you pay so little. So the question is, what did you do? I was talking about a similar case yesterday, where the state's attorney's office, for 26 years, can't find a solution to one of the banal things that a lawyer would solve in a week if there was no political pressure. And that's why I personally don't think we're talking about your mandate here, we're talking about what was before you, but if you're honorable and you hold your job and you love your job impossible to hand over to the MPs this report to us and don't look back at your previous associates who definitely contributed to Croatian healthcare, that the Croatian judiciary, the DORH and all the judiciary have a very bad perception in Croatian society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29355	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29356	Dear President, fellow MPs and MPs, I will look back on what my colleague, Habib, said, and also encouraged by the fact that you are the head of state's attorney, a little bit of eye and head. I'm going to read a part of your report from page 42 of his colleagues, Habian, obviously, didn't even read it, and I don't know if you're aware of what it says. So, the defendant council in accordance with Article 356. The law on criminal proceedings may return the indictment to the prosecutor and where it considers it necessary to better resolve matters where it is not uncommon for the Court to assess the need to carry out additional evidence actions even if, without their implementation, there is no doubt that the defendant has committed a criminal offence against him and that the legal conditions for confirming the indictment have been met. We therefore point out here again and again that during 2017, an analysis of the decision on the return of the indictments was carried out in the period from 1 January 2015 to 1 June 2017, with which the indictment was returned in order to better resolve matters with a view to determining whether the indictment could actually be confirmed. On the basis of the results obtained, it can be concluded that the accused council in part of the case took over the role of the hearing court and entered into the assessment of the verifiability of the testimony of the witnesses questioned by the State lawyer or the question of whether the defendant had committed a criminal offence during the proceedings before the court, even though the role of the indictment was established and whether there was a reasonable suspicion that the defendant had committed a criminal offence. Despite the above, and as we have pointed out, the DORH also pointed out in earlier reports, the state's attorney's office still has no legal opportunity to request a review of such a decision by the Prosecutor's Council because it is not allowed to appeal in which part of the legal solution considers the State's attorney to be irresponsible and suggests that the same change be made in a way that allows the attorney's office to file an appeal against these decisions. At present, the legal solution does not allow a review of the panel's decision on the return of the indictment or even in cases where this decision is not justified, although the justification is the reasons why the indictment is not confirmed and the provision of the action to be taken by the court under the previously cited provision of the Criminal Procedure Act. For years, the Croatian Parliament has read the same report by the main state attorney's office, the pardon may not be read by those members of the HDZ, and for this reason do not refer to absolutely any proposals for legal solutions that this problem in the work of the state's attorney's office, and thus the problem in the work of the Croatian judiciary does not solve. And I here argue that among the cases that have been analysed, and if they were not then they should have been realised there is also the case of Milan Bandic because I believe that there are parts of the indictment in his cases which are thus unconfirmed. So much for fighting corruption, this is exactly the reason why the fight against corruption has stopped. And now I'm going to do something else, given that I have little time left to tell about the independence of the state's attorney's office. I will remind you of the situation when the Prime Minister called or noted that it would be good for the state's attorney general to hold an educational conference after the Janaf affair, which in some ways was a state's attorney's office and listened. It was very agile that the state's attorney's office reacted to the legal acrobatics of former President of the Constitutional Court, Jasnica Omrej, who lost the case before the Commission, at the first instance of the Administrative Court, in the second instance of the Administrative Court, at the High Court of the Republic of Croatia, which was called legal acrobatics, but nevertheless, the state's attorney reached out to one of the institutions for which he very rarely sat down, which is a request for the protection of legality. So we can't fight corruption as long as we have people in our structures who guard the corrupt system instead of fighting it. Unfortunately, in an attempt to protect Jasnica Omjec in one of the most embarrassing actions we have seen in the Croatian judiciary, I consider one of these examples.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29357	We have one replica, distinguished representative Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29358	Dear Representative Oreskovic, you have also criticised the work of this home in an earlier session in the creation of an institutional framework that would support the quality work of the state's attorney's office. Do you have any concrete suggestions that we should do, what legislative framework to create that more problems like this in the work of the state's attorney's office and this type of report would not be met?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29359	I have, thank you, colleague Rasudiæ, your colleague Nikola Grumoji as president of the National Council for monitoring the implementation of the anti-corruption strategy, I said I already have a draft anti-corruption strategy that should be read and used as some kind of starting material, since the Ministry of Justice will not prepare it, and God forbid it prepares it because it cannot be fought by a corrupt political party. Unfortunately, my colleague, Grmoja, felt that this was not an opportunan, and here I have, at the time of the presidential campaign, given the document to the Croatian Parliament, made it available to all political parties, let them read it, there are many proposals that match the Most political programme, but also some other political parties. I think we have some topics in common. This was addressed on the basis of my expertise, and yet anything that can be improved and improved and upgraded will not be more fortunate than me to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29360	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29361	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I would like to explain that the subject of corruption is a dog and explain in which way it will replace it and make it a perfect substitute for new legal proposals or different protocols on the subject of crime speech, hate speech. Today we had the opportunity to listen twice to the DORH report, once by the state's attorney, the second time by the distinguished representative Jekovac on behalf of the HDZ Club. During a speech on behalf of the HDZ Club, the distinguished representative Jelovac committed a lapus and said this was already said in the DORH report, so I would not repeat myself. And this is not an accident because it is one of the same reports that points to a fundamental Croatian problem, which is that the government's trodiotry on legislative, executive and judicial matters that the Constitution guarantees us does not exist. The courtesy of the legislative executive authority is witnessed daily in the assembly. The latest example last night was when HDZ, by whom, submitted an amendment to its own government, to include Sisak in the 100% renewal programme so as not to accidentally accept any opposition proposal. Such a permanent and unique, banal and obvious supplication of power has been devised the role of a assembly in which the legitimate citizens may have even less confidence than in the judiciary. The only problem the HDZ Club has identified in the DORH report is the perception problem. It's repeated and later in the debate. And so I'm going to just talk about this perception because perception as we could learn today from the HDZ Club, which is just a paraphrase of the recent Plenkovic squadrons accusing the media of an impression that creates a key problem. And to avoid confusion soon, what has been announced by DORH's latest promotional activities will be his only job, his perception, his perception in anti-constitutional symbiosis with the executive authority. But of course you will say in HDZ that it is only our perception as well as the problem of inefficient justice. What's this about? It's about what I initially announced with a hate speech. In this report, we learn that the DORH participates in a series of activities related to the fight against hate speech at conferences and round tables. The State Attorney's Office shall have a representative in the Working Party to monitor the protocol on the conduct of hate crimes cases as well as in the Working Party for the amendment of the said Protocol. So I'm going to say a few words about this very protocol. To avoid confusion, this is not a question of whether to sanction hate speech, which is unquestionable, this is a question of who and why he pretends to want to sanction hate speech, because I will remind you that HDZ really wants to sanction hate speech then, as we could find out from the USKOK trials for ourselves during the pre-election campaigns, obtaining different Internet brigades that they are trolling on social networks for their recognition, leave negative comments below the users from opposing political camps. What is the problem with that protocol that will not be discussed in this assembly, and it should therefore be mentioned in order to explain to the public what it is. It declares, or is unclear, what will be the obligations of the competent authorities and this is the problem of the consistency of the judicial and executive authorities. What are they gonna do and who's gonna do the hate crime record, whether it's gonna be the M.O.P. or it's gonna be the DORH? Furthermore, it has been announced that cases related to hate crimes will be treated hastily and with special attention. And as it is otherwise handled in other cases, objects dealing with corruption that we've been talking about all day. Many confusing things are also announced, such as those that the MUP will collect data on groups, group members and individuals who in their actions show a tendency to commit hate crimes. No one knows what it is, and it looks like it's going to be arbitrary. And different dimmed terms such as the unsub's belonging to an extremist group, the frequency of hate speech and the most unusual absence of another obvious motive. Who will decide what the DORH will do, what the DORH will do or do together, and whether political opponents will be eliminated in such a way in the name of hate speech. Why did I choose the theme of hate speech? While we are on the outside dealing with hate speech, the hate speech gene of what produces the dissatisfaction that generates hate speech that culminates and hate crimes, which is the dysfunction of institutions, crime and corruption, the hatred of legislative, executive and judicial authorities will remain unquestioned because the executive's message on the work of independent institutions is the following. We don't have to deal with improving their actions. We just need to improve the impression that they are ineffective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29362	We have one replica of the distinguished representative Nino Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29363	Dear Representative Selak Rasdic, following the debate today for hours, I had the impression that I was witnessing the continuation of the current hour from 2 days ago, and that instead of the head of an independent institution such as the State's Attorney's Office we were talking to a ruling party minister. What you yourself have pointed out is simply impossible that on the one hand, the ruling parties come only to praise and that in the way of those questions where you have the impression that the first written answer was written and only then the intended question was missing the final answer which in this case they do not have where they say thank you for an excellent answer. I think it's bad and that it makes an impression in public, the truth is the state's chief attorney is elected by a simple majority in the assembly and the ruling elected the current state's attorney, but I think it leaves a very bad impression in public where then the judiciary as a whole is perceived only as an extended hand of the ruling structure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29364	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29365	I agree with that perception, that's the question I asked, and I initially suggested that it seemed to me that we had listened to the DORH report twice. This is certainly not good for the perception of the DORH itself, and the reason why I was talking about this perception is because I am afraid that the only thing that we will be dealing with in the future will be this perception, and perception will be created by the fact that political opponents will mark as supporters or producers of hate speech and thus help or retaliate the perception of the ruling party. I think that's the thing we all need to ask ourselves. I'm afraid if we look at these protocols that it's going to be the only thing that's really going to be handled in haste and it's very signifying and in which the DORH will only be effective. And we don't have to fall for that story that he really wants to commit a crime of hate speech here. Here he wants to deal with sanctioning freedom of speech, because HDZ I said again, he wouldn't have Internet brigades if he were interested in how to prevent hate speech in society.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29366	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Nino Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29367	The Honorable Chairman, respected chief state attorneys, colleagues and fellow MPs, lasted a long time today's debate and we heard more or less all about the data and details so I will not go into detail and repeat what has already been said but may say something about the general impression of today's general impression all day. I would like to repeat something, and I would like to express my regret why in this report, which has met all the formal conditions to put it together, but there was one missing, I would say creative touch where we, as legislators, would hear from the chief state's attorney, what we can do to facilitate the work of the state's attorney's office in terms of the legislative framework and the material status and state of the state's attorney. To our chief state attorney who submits here a report not on his work but on the work of the previous state attorney's office because we have this one-year delay in submitting the report at the same time is difficult and easy. You have been respected by the attorney general because you work in material terms as you are not only in the state's attorney's office but in all institutions and you work in a state of very low public trust and in the state's attorney's office and in the judiciary as a whole. But on the other hand, it's professionally personal to you because whatever you do, and we'll see it only in the reports next year, hopefully we won't wait for a full year for the next report to speed up, no matter how you do, you can't make a worse impression in public than your predecessors, because what I'm sure we won't expect from you is that you won't turn out to be an informant of foreign embassies and that you're a member of the Masonic lodges or pseudo-Domasonians. In doing so, I don't just think about the fact that this sexism inside the masseary because free builders don't take women into their membership but simply judge that you're not that type of person. What is deeply affecting the poor perception of the State's Attorney's Office in public are these affairs of your predecessors, and I am sorry that the State's Attorney's Council has not yet been shown about it. I would like to remind you that in 2011 on wikipedia, among other thousands and thousands of documents, that they have leaked and publicly published US Embassy dispatches in Zagreb are addressed to Washington, where among other things we see that Chief State Attorney Bajic and USKOK Director Cvitan submit reports to the Foreign Embassy on their work and show confidential documents. Something that would end up in any serious state with years of imprisonment. Ask your colleagues from the United States that someone in an adequate, appropriate position in America did it either at a friendly embassy, like Germany or France, was in Russia or China to spend, with no one, and everything is available. Those Google documents are already there. I don't know why the State Attorney's Council did nothing about it, but they only conspired, Bajic became deputy, Cvitan's chief state attorney, is now a deputy, and the impression remains public that instead of reporting exclusively to the Croatian Parliament they are to be submitted to foreign embassies. It is not enough, therefore, to break these practices, but to investigate and drive them out into the open. And what I partially touched Mr. Jelenić who was missing today, he had to be here today because this report on his work, not yours, is not responsible for these problems from 2019, he is primarily responsible. And I say it would lead him to ask him how it could be sitting in the HNK next to the defendant Milan Bandic or what it was with this embarrassing affair with the pseudo-Hungarian lodge, which the mockery threw out by the entire State Attorney's Office, I would say Croatia, Croatia, the state. So, it was that, here, I mentioned him to Cedomir Vukic called Ceda Point, that he had brought some false documents from Italy that he had opened to a god-awful Serbian landmark, a Masonic box within which there was a tariff. For 200 EUR, you could become a first-degree mass, a second-degree brother for 500 EUR, for 750 EUR you immediately get a third degree of free masonry, and for 10,000 EUR directly 33 degrees. What Mr. Hanžekovic may have invested in the Masonery for decades with Chad's score by 10,000. And now from Ceda comma another character moving from Novi Sad to Zagreb, in Dubrav, the documentation is established by the lodge of Zagreb and who joins there, our chief state attorney. This is ridiculous, I find this ridiculous, but I find this sad. Yeah, our state's attorney is part of those suckers that Chad's point and similar manipulation that it will become someone and something. [[Intruder: Time.]] Until this is investigated and resolved, until we get Jelenić here, the reputation will be in the public of the State's Attorney's Office as it is, and you are not primarily responsible for it, at least this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29368	We have one replica, one replica, the distinguished representative Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29369	Personally, I believe that it is never too late for a new beginning and that we will see the work of distinguished state lawyers of Hrvoje Šipek just now. And so these speeches can also be seen as a warning, as an opportunity to deal with these problems, let's just say what I said about hate speech. Not to allow this topic to overcome all other key problems of the State's Attorney's Office, key problems with the judiciary in Croatia that torture all our citizens from corruption and beyond. Not to be seduced by these topics that serve only to dissuade the people. But what I'm interested in is how do we go, how do we proceed from some point of clarity when we can't get new people inside the State's Attorney's office but rather witness some kind of rotation within the same functions. How do you explain that?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29370	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29371	Personally, if you ask me myself, I think that the main state attorney should be elected in the 2/3 majority assembly, so that's what it takes to reach a consensus, so let's agree on that because look tomorrow, there might be some other majority, so that other majority will choose their state's attorney, and we'll have this situation as today's HDZ lawyers are acting as attorneys of the state's attorney general that it's going to be someone else tomorrow. I think it would be too much of a solution that would restore trust in the institution if it were not chosen by a simple majority but by a 2/3 majority in the assembly, which would guarantee a broader consensus, and I also believe that this automation is either replaced by the main state attorney or has expired his term of office is not re-elected by the automatism of becoming a deputy, I do not think that this is a good solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29372	Final debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS, the distinguished representative Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29373	Dear President, fellow MPs and MPs, we can praise the results when they are there and when they are good, when they are not there we simply need to look for the problem. On some other occasions, I have been referring to the reports of the attorney general of the previous state, and here are the same things now being repeated in Mrs. Šipek's report. So, it is not true that nothing is said to the legislator which the legislator should change, but I am not surprised that the parliamentary majority ruling the state from 2015 to today on the improvement of the legislative framework did absolutely nothing. But then I expect the state's chief attorney to call directly that part of the political scene, which is clearly resisting any legislative and institutional improvement in the work of one of the most absolutely important bodies in the anti-corruption system. And it's up to us to put that part of the report in the back. However, the overall impression and confidence of citizens in the work of state institutions, especially the DORH, depends on the effectiveness and speed of solving large corruption affairs, and in that part we have the fact that HDZ ministers are being replaced as on tape, as through a flow boiler, and that in fact through a criminal procedure that only the State's Attorney's Office does, and especially when it comes to court, there are those black holes where absolutely no results and there's everything falling into the water. And then all the negative energy of the public, all the blades are pointing at the people who, by name and last name, embody the institution they represent. And what do we have here? We have Drazen Jelenić I disagree with the presentation of his colleague Rasdic who said he should come to the Croatian Parliament and explain something there. Well, he shouldn't be ashamed to show up anywhere in public anymore. So it's a person who obviously didn't understand the basic task, the basic task of it as the leader in the DORH system. He made a public statement after the media found that a member of one was not even making it, but rather some half-massone deposit that he was invited to be a member of a secret society to impote. So it imploded him that someone had used his position, his power within the system, obviously for some of his own purposes, instead of making it clear that such a thing in his presence should not even be declared. And what else did the attorney general of the former, which had already raised doubts about how he would carry out his duty? Well, at that point, Tamara Laptoš, who proved herself at international level, received international recognition as the best state's attorney that year, was that year famous when the criminal case against Ivo Sanader was launched, so he kept her in some sort of status v.d. for six months. Director, he explained in public that he wanted to see how she would click on him. So what kind of cheek does a man have that he's been working with for 10 years says first I need to see how the two of us are gonna click, and then I'm gonna see if I can put you on the head of the USKOK. That should have caused doubt at the time. And what makes me doubt right now, which is deeply frustrating is the fact that after all, Drazen Jelenić remained working in the DORH system. So we sent a message, not us, but Mrs. Šipek, that actually only the State's Attorney's Office doesn't understand how he has to clean the weeds out of his ranks and what kind of message he has to send to all the state's attorneys and deputy state's attorneys. So, a person who doesn't understand the basic task, the basic principle, the basic essence and the basic morale or the code of his public duty in their ranks has nothing to ask but never, and we don't know how to resolve his status until today. And the main thing when we have very sensitive and delicate situations concerning politically powerful persons, about which politically powerful persons to do so and whether it is Jasnica Restrict, then the State's Attorney's Office must be very, very, very precise, exact, and must clearly explain the reasons for its actions, such as reaching out for a very rare legal protection institute in a situation where all other judicial cases have said that what Jasnica Omrejek did was a notorous shame. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29374	The next final debate on behalf of the Green-Left bloc's Green-Left Club, Commissioner Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29375	Thank you. Here's what I'm going to do. I'm going to try to be brief for a long time. We've had today's debate, and I'm going to try to sum up some key messages about improving the work of the State's Attorney's Office. First it concerns the very structure and way of presentation in the report, of course we appreciate and we think it is important that there are tables and statistics in there, etc., but it can always be contributed, we think that a lot more attention should actually be devoted to some key phenomena and interpretation of these phenomena, and then, in particular, to how the fight within the DORH can be improved with such phenomena as corruption. We would greatly appreciate it if you would pay particular attention and state in your report how you detect any political pressures and what is concrete, so what is the application procedure and what is within the State's attorney's office, how many have you had each year and how they have been resolved or what has been done with them. What's also important to the public seems to me is that you show more or perhaps more that you communicate because I don't claim that you don't have it, but that you may communicate more and more clearly with self-initiative, or the way the State's Attorney's office, based on the evidence it's only seen, collected, etc., initiates certain actions especially in so-called. a team of.../incomprehensible/... cases or cases related to a kind of public interest. I'm going to give an example, so if we had a situation for years that there were documentation, that there were people who were complaining, for example, about the renovation in Sisak-Moslavina County, that they were pointing to certain malversions, that TV shows were recorded and played on HTV, then since it was something that really public interest would be important to know whether DORH did something about it and who was the epilogue. So, just to communicate here are the people we are, we've investigated no indications so far, we don't have any evidence to suggest that we should go further into the investigation, but that this is communicating and that it's known that there's something going on, and not wait for some affair to start burning in public and it's reacting because then it really seems that the DORH is only working on public pressure. And it's a vicious circle for you that once you enter, then everyone will always be doing pressure because they think in advance that you are solely working on pressure, I don't mean it. But this perception is being created and we're entering a dangerous circle that we won't be able to get out of. One more important thing, here's recognition of what public interest is. We had the same high profile public verdict in the case of Thompson's song that ends i.e. I'm starting to call for a home prepared by a mistrial, I don't know when it was that a year and a few days ago, the High Violent Court, which is therefore a diametrical opposite of four, as well as four judgments of the Constitutional Court, was taken at the session of the council of all judges, and such a session can be held, positions taken, but do not make decisions on individual cases. So we have an eclectic example in which the DORH can, if it recognizes that it is important, that it is public interest to seek and submit a request for the protection of legality. I don't know if you are but if you are, you should communicate with the public. So we need to communicate publicly, that this is a matter of public interest, and here we are going to apply for the protection of legality, therefore, and therefore. So that kind of public communication about things that are important to build trust in you as an institution. And finally very important, it seems to me that, on the basis of the recent case or judgment in the case of Sabalic in the European Court of Human Rights, who clearly and unequivocally said that both courts and the State's attorneys were wrong when they were applying the institute, and I am going in such a way that if someone was charged with a crime involving and violence, but this offence did not include an element of hatred, but the crime was also proven to have been committed by hatred, so it was not allowed to go to the rejection of the application because it had already been ruled in a misdemeanour procedure. It's also very important for all cases of domestic violence because right there very often we have, we have a collapsing because of the non-bis and I go principles, and actually the descriptions are not the same. The situation is the same, but the descriptions are not the same. [[Intruder: Time.]] So here's what Mr. Habib said if we had any concrete suggestions, hopefully we contributed to some constructive debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29376	Finally on behalf of the rapporteur, distinguished state attorney Zlata Hrvoj Šipek.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29377	I thank all the honourable MPs and MPs for their constructive discussion and suggestions. I have carefully followed the debate, and some of the suggestions I will seriously consider and try to apply in my work and conduct. In democratic societies, everyone has the right to their own opinion and opinion, so I hope you won't mind me having a part of the debate and the opinions that have been delivered and I won't agree. The debate mentions specific subjects that as well known cannot be talked about or discussed. However, what I can generally say when it comes to the work of the State's Attorney's Office is forgotten that the State's Attorney's Office today is not a body of detection of criminal offences. The state's attorney's office reacts and can react to the knowledge it will receive in any way, so of course in that part we thank investigative journalism, but the State's Attorney's Office is not the one who conducts surveillance over the work of HZZO, other institutions, is not the body of general supervision, it was the State's Attorney's Office in the 50s of the last century. In democratic states, it's not the work of the State's Attorney's Office, it's the internal institutions of supervision and control. And just in that wrong picture of the jurisdiction of the State's Attorney's Office, our citizens expect that some private legal relationship, disputes they failed to resolve can be resolved through the State's attorney's office and criminal proceedings because all those irregularities we often, someone has used from respected advocates an expression of irregularities, that irregularities we actually have are built from civil responsibility, political, moral responsibility, criminal responsibility, criminal responsibility and criminal proceedings is actually the last line, the last line of this defense. As far as I'm concerned, I'm going to try to answer some of the questions that have been asked in the debate, or maybe explain something in that, in my presentation, because it was, of course, short, it's hard to sum up 100 and some pages for 20 minutes, so let me explain that I'm removing doubts. One of the questions was about statistics and entry of objects. The state's attorney's office led statistics according to earlier regulations in a way that once the case was received and once the decision was made as one subject, which means that for example, the Sanader case, let's mention it today, is although it has passed the phase of solving criminal charges, the stage of investigation, the stage of the indictment, the second-degree procedure, and the abolition, the return to the retrial in the State's Attorney's Office, it was once a single case. At the same time, if you look at courts and other bodies, they've had 10. So it turns out that the deputy working on this case is no longer doing anything because that object was formed in 2000 and I don't know the fourth, fifth year, I don't remember anymore. Therefore, now that we have started a new way of showing which is far more objective and which enables real framework standards and real burdens of deputies to be created, we have been forced to make or now talk about the former state attorney, the main state attorney has made it clear that all those cases in which the first-degree verdict is not passed into statistics. On the other hand, there was a difference, and because of that, I mean, we could have kept that information quiet and probably none of the MPs would have noticed it. However, it is not our goal, we want to speak openly and to receive criticism of our work because these criticisms at least part of the criticisms that are truly constructive will help us to be better, more transparent and our work more quality. As far as the criminal application received by the distinguished representative Kristo, I have requested data and the answer is the following. In 2014, Mr Jelic submitted an application related to Croatia's insurance, which was the subject of USKOK's jurisdiction. As early as December 2014, USKOK informed the applicant that there were no elements of the crime, and on the basis of the report that additional data were previously requested from the State Audit and after its obvious, the file was archived in 2016 and Mr Jelic was informed about it. When asked about the question of the distinguished representative Bencic about the pressures and internal mechanisms. What I'm about to say for myself, you are, Parliamentarians have commented on the behavior of former state attorneys, and I don't want to comment on it, but I know that political pressure can't be applied to me. I don't owe anyone anything or have a future career ahead of me, and I've done my working life honestly, and I think I'm gonna finish it fair and square. Internal mechanisms to protect against external influences or any kind, any kind, I would say in that sense, no. Why? However, there is, in the DORH Act, protection of deputies, who are also independent and independent in the work, protection against the influence of a state lawyer who may order them or come under attack to order them to make and implement a decision or to make a decision or to put the file in a drawer, therefore, these are provisions contained in the DORH Act, clearly state that the illegal order of the State's attorney may refuse, the order and order of the State's attorney may only apply to the request that further evidence be carried out, but in no way in relation to the decision that he may and should be made, the deputy, if it does not agree to request that the file be sought to others in the work, that he does not do so, therefore, the DORH Act itself created that internal system which is.../incomprehensible/... i. i.e. to ensure that the independence and independence of deputies in the work that they are actually working on specific subjects. As for the former Attorney General and his membership in the Free builders' Association, I'll be very brief. The Association of Free builders is registered in the Republic of Croatia and, as such, membership is allowed and is not prohibited. However, the question is, I am deliberately speaking the question, whether membership in the association is in line with the DORH Ethics Code. Whether a state's attorney may be a member of an association that is classified in its nature, given that there are no legal prohibitions, I have asked the Ethics Committee established in the DORH to make a statement on this matter. That opinion I received from the Ethics Commission, it was published on the DORH website, it was declared not, it is absolutely unacceptable. I asked my colleague Jelenić for a statement as to whether he was still a member of the masseuse or not, after which I apologized, but forgive me, on the 12th month, Covid and I was not at work, therefore, my decision on the part will follow very quickly. As for the questions referred to me personally, MP Oreskovic, perhaps because of the shortness I had for replication and answer, my answer was not clear. I don't know, and I never spoke to Mr. Mandic. What was written in the Nacional was about someone else's cell phone number, not mine. But, therefore, to a question that I have failed to answer, I urge you to exercise your right to ask parliamentary questions, and as always so far, we will answer them, or I will answer them. I still have to estimate that DORH's work was in '19. Mr. was high-quality and up-to-date. I believe that several individual objects should not be and should not be the basis for the assessment of the work of the entire DORH and of all the people who are committed, honest, responsible and conscientiously working in it. The report shows that the state's attorneys brought 788 thousand cases in 4 years or received 788 thousand cases, that we are solving more and more cases each year, the EU Commission has positively assessed the work of the DORH and USKOK. If you look at the figures, about the number of debates conducted, the defendants questioned, witnesses, eyewitnesses performed and a series of other legal actions, if you look at, on the other hand, the number of state lawyers, deputies and advisers doing so, conditions and equipment, we are not supermen who can do the impossible. We are, of course, people, with our weaknesses and virtues, but believe that we are all trying, trying to do our job fairly, professionally, consciously, impartially and objectively. We try not to succumb to pressures or defenders, participants in proceedings, media and interesting lobbies. Are we wrong? Surely we are wrong, but we are prepared to make those mistakes, as soon as we see them, to remove them, to correct them. Each state's attorney is independent and independent in making his own decisions, but also responsible. Therefore, surveillance is being conducted at several levels, the work of state lawyers is assessed, education is being conducted, errors are being warned when serious injuries are involved, tight procedures are being initiated. Yeah, well, ours finally reminded me, we don't have an addition as far as the State's Attorney's Council is concerned, but the D.O.V. on the website published the data just for '19. Mr. about his actions and his work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29378	Please wait, you have a little replica. The first is Honorable Representative Matko Kuzmanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29379	I'd like to ask you a question that my colleague's attorney has drawn up for me, and I'd like you to answer it precisely. Can you explain to me how you would treat a deputy state attorney who has taken actions towards a citizen past a legal stand, for example, invited him to show for circumstances that do not constitute a criminal offence, because the actions which are subject to questioning are not described as... any criminal offence prescribed by Croatian legislation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29380	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29381	I must admit that the question is not too clear to me, but look, often in reports of various kinds that may be in different forms, it is not necessarily the form of criminal application, or that it corresponds to the content of the criminal application. But it is possible that there is doubt or that when the deputy analyzes it, there are grounds that another crime has been committed and there is no obstacle to carrying out the interrogation in that sense, It determines. [[Intruder: Next...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29382	The next replica is the esteemed representative Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29383	Thank you, ma'am. I'm sorry I have to do things again, but I'll repeat them as many times as I need to. It is completely irrelevant, but it really doesn't matter if Mr. Jelenic resigned from his membership in some Masonic association and it is completely irrelevant that the association is legally registered. We are talking about the fact that it is a person who has not been aware that as a person who works in the judicial system, as a person who works on investigating and persecuting crimes, he cannot be a member of an association in which other members are secret and the fact is that for more than 9, 10 months, if not longer, that person employed within the structure of the DORH and the question arises in which way he could have done his work at all, and if you don't understand it, I really don't know what the future of the DORH is.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29384	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29385	If you'll excuse me, the procedure is the basis of democracy. The fact, or individual opinion, is not evidence. We can't function that way. If we're going to say that because something we all know, then we don't need a court or a DORH, then we're back in some other time, and that's certainly not the time of democracy. Deputy Mr. Jelenić was not burdened to use his job and position in any way at any time for the benefit of brothers from the Masonic Lodge or anyone. His work wasn't at stake. It's a matter of membership, and I have to tell you that there's one court decision in Strasbourg, so the Court of Human Rights that has troubled that question, I wouldn't be talking about it right now, but it's going to be there and it's not exactly that. Simple, so, [[Intruder: Time.]] I think we need to respect the procedure. [[Intruder: Next...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29386	The next replica is the esteemed representative Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29387	Thank you. Now that we've learned that there are no actual internal procedures for reporting pressure, I think that it should certainly be one of the Parliament's conclusions, namely, the Parliament can draw conclusions on improving the work of the DORH, and I think that we are going in that direction, that we could have an investigative commission, it would certainly be one of the conclusions that internal mechanisms actually need to strengthen your resilience to external pressures, because it is not a question of whether we believe that you have this kind of resistance, but that hundreds of people in the DORH who need some kind of fuses and mechanisms to protect them. That's the first thing. Two, I'm really, really giving you big benefits because you're new. Some kind of trust we have to have that your work will be good, but what I really want for you is that in a year when you're going to have a report here, that this side that's in power is going to solve you a lot more than this one. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because it's going to be a sign that you're doing your job, and when you get into the position of some defense attorneys that this side also does. Then you'll know that you're really independent institutions. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29388	Answer. Next replica, distinguished representative Eric Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29389	Respected state's attorney. I'd like to thank you for your clarification. In fact, when a man first reads the report and sees that 19% jump, then it is really imagined that the rate of crime in Croatia is growing by one-fifth is almost a very, very worrying data. The fact is that by writing a report a few times a reporter, which times may well be a warm one to focus attention on that particular information that certainly requires, this kind of interpretation that I've received, without further ado. The fact that, you know, you know for a fact that it's not good for HS, but that means another thing, that we finally have new knowledge, but that some of your predecessors were crossing them or at least they weren't showing them. Here's a thank you. and I hope that in this calendar year we will discuss this report for 2020 Of course it's not up to you. It's up to the chairman of the Parliament. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-21-1.u29390	Okay. Here, thank you very much. We've exhausted the full debate with this. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We continue tomorrow morning at 9.30 p.m. with the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Noise Protection, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 14. Here, good night. Session interrupted at 1900 hours.
