ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u42826	I'm sorry, but time's up. And now finally, dear colleague Bartulic on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club. Here you go. Just wipe out the pay phone.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u42827	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, I had no intention of speaking this morning, but I will still look back on some questions, especially as regards civil society in Croatia as we see it in the Homeland Movement. This morning we heard heavy words about the actions of some associations, that they are extremists, fundamentalists, that they actually do not accept democratic principles, etc. So I feel the need to look back on those claims, because I think it's one missed thesis and I'm going to say why and why it's so important that it's actually understood in the right way. Yes, we live in a free society, each one advocates what he thinks is important in society, but it seems to me that certain structures are used to domination or other words, hegemony, that anything that opposes their vision or agenda must be "frame-mate" as something that does not belong to the mainstream and it will not pass. That won't work. We must first say that the first role of civil society is somehow to be a correction of power, and therefore freedom and independence, in some ways and in terms of funding. How can a group of associations that depend on public sources of money be a correction of power? In fact, we have here in Croatia a replacement thesis where actually certain associations are actually similar all the time in the grace of all structures, from HDZ to left and they get taxpayers' money and now they dispute how to finance others that are mostly from private sources. So I'm asking the question here, who is the anti-systemic force that goes against electricity? Those who have all the leverage available all the time and get our money or those who actually get very little. I will repeat once again, for 10 years I have been active in civil society and I will speak for my association, we have not received a single kuna from public sources, and that, and we must deal with those who receive hundreds of millions. That's the first one. So, civil society, to be authentic, must be both free and independent from the governing structures and now you assess which apartment it is. Second of all, as far as the arrangement in Croatia is concerned, who respects it? I will remind you in 2013 has passed a referendum on marriage, it is now a provision in the Croatian Constitution, I hope that colleagues from We can also respect that provision of the Croatian Constitution and everything that stems from the definition of marriage as a community of men and women. Therefore, it is not all the same to be consistent constitutional patriots and to obey every provision of our Constitution. I'll remind you in 2013 there was a spontaneous initiative of citizens with over 700,000 people who signed that petition I'd like to see that the other side organises something so free and spontaneous, I think, that I can only dream of it. And one more thing, as far as ideology is concerned, I think we'll agree that our schools financed by taxpayers must not be a place of child indoctrination for any, for any worldview. So we'll still raise our voice if we see attempts to introduce the disputed, very controversial I'll say toxic when it comes to gender ideology, if it's trying to impose it on our schools. If people want to be free to promote their ideas, let them do it, but not through our institutions, which we all finance. So, let's spare the children of that especially in elementary school. Finally, the question arises as to what is the mainstream in Croatia, is what is in line with the Judeo-Christian civilization what promotes and defends the Homeland Movement or new ideologies that actually undermine this tradition all the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u42898	The third in line will be a respected colleague, Silvano Hrelja, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSS and HSU. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u42899	Your Honor. I want to talk today about the tribune's echoes about installing elevators into multi-story residential buildings with European money or how I experienced it. After four years of frustration and attempts to prove the possibility and the need to install the elevator with European money, Minister Žalac and Minister Pavic when the first one was not very concerned and tried most to challenge that possibility, and the second one claimed that the EU is not giving green light due to investment in private property, the promising rally took place. Why the promise? Because all relevant entities and institutions have gathered to resolve the enigma of the installation of the lifts with European money and have discussed in a constructive tone how to, how to solve the problem and have committed themselves more than ever to remove possible administrative obstacles. Minister Natasa Tramišak also urged all cities that have this problem to join the programme of their human and financial potential because it is an investment in the quality of their fellow citizens' lives and the efficiency of the work of all service town services. More discussions disputed the thesis that this is an investment in citizens' assets. Property is growing, however, but it is the common property of all tenants, which also increases the country's general social wealth. That this is not a problem and the obstacles are already two exceptions that the European Commission is making, and these are the following, so the installation of elevators with the reconstruction of the facade is not treated as an investment in personal property, I guess because of the higher energy efficiency objective. Also in the Recovery and Resistance programme, this is not an investment in citizens' assets, although it will be built up where the elevators have never been again because of a higher goal, removing the effects of the earthquake. I'm polarizing now with myself and with all the participants together, why only the access program to the apartment is controversial. Perhaps because the term availability is not sufficiently picturesque and can be identified by buying an apartment, perhaps because it is not explicitly defined as a higher goal that its majesty has raised a very pro-pulsory factor for the quality of life of our citizens, that the fighter against the exclusion and captivity of our citizens, especially the person with the disability of the elderly and the sick, we estimate that it has trapped about 40,000 people in the Republic of Croatia, that the fighter has raised, is a fighter for the quality of life of young families with small children, to reduce the need to build overpriced accommodation facilities in homes for older and powerless, to enable the quality functioning of extra-institutional care for the elderly and the sick in their own homes, to increase the efficiency of all public services financed by taxpayers. Therefore, Ministers open this channel from the European Cohesion Fund and give citizens the opportunity to engage and give their better lives a chance. Let them see that it is possible and not at any time but during this year some designers exhibit their creative abilities because there is a lot of need, people of all kinds, but also countless possibilities of technical solutions. Let's believe, let's all believe together and act positively that solving the problem of lifts in cities will run such a necessary quality communication of people and arrangements, this time not against but great for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u42932	We are going to the 4th debate, on behalf of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club, dear colleague Bojan Glavasevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u42933	Thank you, Mr. President. The European Parliamentary Forum for Sexual and Reproductive Rights, it is an interparliamentary and inter-party organisation whose name, I believe, only explains the focus of its activities. Yesterday, she published a major report revealing a network of funding for social and political organisations whose purpose is to reverse women's rights and this will be a person in all EU countries, as well as Croatia. Here's some data we need to imagine ourselves over. Between 2009 and 2018 extremist and fundamentalist organisations such as "In the Name of the Family", "Vigilare" and "Ordo Iuris" to list just a few of those operating in Croatia, and mentioned in the report, received over $707 million from US private financiers, the Russian Federation and some European countries. Annual funding for extremists and fundamentalists and their organisations in Europe increased four times during the same period, in 2009. It was 22.2 million dollars a year and until 2018. It reached $96 million a year. The report reveals that the largest European financiers of these social vermin come from France, Italy, Germany, Spain and Poland. In this place in the last few years, I've been talking about these people's activities, from predatory so-called. A clinic for abortions in rural parts of Croatia in which the nadirs provide false information to intimidate and deter them from interrupting pregnancy through attempts to hack democracy and discriminate against LGTB persons, fostering hatred against them to so-called. Walks for life that are increasingly actually an attempt at political mobilization around some choices. That's how it was this year, actually every year. This year and in these local elections, the most rude attempt to influence the outcome of the election has taken place so far. A foreign extremist organisation registered in Spain Cityzen Go, which is connected to a number of fundamentalist organizations in Croatia, and most importantly among them are "In the name of the family", "Vigilare" and "Ordo Iuris", sent our citizens and citizens SMS messages in which they spread lies and hatred against the platform "We can!" and Tomislav Tomasevic with the aim of supporting his opponent. SMSs were signed by a certain Anamarija Marković known to the public as the initiator of the petition right on the Cityzen Go platform for the ban on renting apartments for gay persons. GONG therefore submitted its application to the National Election Commission. Regardless of what your political worldview is, it would have to be democratic, meaning that the laws and constitution of our country are respected and that political games are conducted fairly and without foreign influences. Whether you agree with the values and objectives of these religious fundamentalists or not, you should condemn their methods that are simply illegal and represent an attempt to hack democracy. The report is available on the IPF pages and I invite you all to read it, and we from the Green-Left Block Club will send this report to the State Election Commission as additional material to consider along with GONG's application, and we will send it to the SOA because here colleagues and colleagues are not a matter of defence of conservative or progressive values but of democracy and constitutional legal order of the Republic of Croatia. You know, those democracies and that constitutional legal order that the defenders and civilians were killed for, which my family was killed for. It's something that makes me think these extremists are forgetting.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u43019	We will now hear a respected colleague, Dalia Oreskovic, on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u43020	Honorable MPs and MPs, first of all, to say something that's nouhau. Nouhau is a way of working and methodology that is carefully cherished both in companies and in certain institutions, is a special way of making the market value available in companies, and in state bodies is a guarantee of the exercise of the rule of law. I'm going to say something about what institutional memory is, it's a specific memory in people who have built a certain principle and know the arguments behind taking a certain position or interpretation. I'll say something about what it's track records, track records is written material, evidence through files, through objects about how this know-how and institutional memory is implemented in practice. Why am I saying this? I'm saying this because of the Tomislav Tomasevic case, which will become more and more a case of the commission itself. Namely, 2013. A new body has been established professionally, professionally, independently, which has received a number of questions from local officials following the local elections on what the law applies in the case of appointment of members of supervisory boards and management of commercial companies, since two different laws of equal legal force in this matter prescribe different rules. The law on the prevention of conflicts of interest says that these appointments work on a proposal from the assembly, the Law on Local and Regional Affairs says that the right to appoint has executive power. On the occasion of a number of questions from local officials, the Commission was then in 2013. Taken on a uniform and unequivocal interpretation that in the event of a conflict of two legal laws, the same legal weight has the same law which was later passed, in this case it was the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government and gave priority to it. The commission submitted a report to the Croatian Assembly for 2013. which is still available on the website of both committees and can be found in the archives of the Croatian Parliament. So to facilitate your search, you can find evidence of this on pages 83, 120, 145 and 162, and in a number of others that describe specific items where such a position is established. And that view has been consistently applied since 2013. so practically until today all these years, through two cycles of local elections in 2013 and 2017, through all items, through all 576 units of local self-government and appointment processes. And what really happened? It happened that now, after all these years, the commission is now after the first round of local elections in 2017. and a guideline that takes a completely different position for 180 degrees. Despite the fact that 2017 the same commission has sent to the Government, the Ministry of Justice and the Administration for amending the law which I propose to act on. The 15th disputed article, which is now the basis for the initiation of proceedings against Tomislav Tomasevic, is now officially deleted from the law. Such an attitude, such a proposal to amend the law of the former assembly of the commission has accepted a new assembly of committees and has remained consistent with it, despite the fact that 25.5. therefore, after the first round of local elections, the commission has brought a new interpretation just five days later of 31.5. 15. must be deleted in the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest. All this points to my suspicion that the commission has become a toy in the hands of the ruling. In practice, if this new interpretation is accepted, there could be a blockade and a slowdown of governance in all 576 units of local self-government and a prevention of changes that clearly want to be achieved by ruling at the expense of citizens. So, this kind of disgrace and shame in the work of the commission I didn't expect, and I have to say that I'm not defending Tomislav Tomislav Tomislav, I'm defending the law here, I'm defending legal certainty, I'm defending consistency in the application of legal norms, and this is how I would do it if it were any of you or any of you. Mayors, Mayors and Municipal Commissioners [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] in any unit of local or regional self-government. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u43276	We are going to the sixth debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, respected counterpart Zdravka Busic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u43277	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The European path of BiH is one of the key foreign policy objectives and the strategic priority of the Republic of Croatia, and care for Croats in BiH is a constitutional obligation. Within the framework of the European institutions, at the professional and political level, Croatia is actively favouring the affirmation of the constitutional principles of the constitution of the people and the need for reform of the BiH electoral law, which will allow legitimate representation at all levels of government, including the BiH presidency. As part of these efforts, Croatia is constantly getting to know its European partners with the importance of preserving the country's constitutional structure and with the great importance of amending the electoral law in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly in line with the BiH Constitution, respecting the BiH Constitutional Court's decision in the Ljubic case, which I have already mentioned many times. The activity of Croatia is in favour of bringing BiH closer to the EU, explaining the complexity of its arrangements, participating in discussions to find appropriate solutions for a successful European future and promoting the concept of the equality of the constituent peoples in BiH as the basis of political stability and further progress of the country while also including the official documents of the EU Council. Recognising the exceptional importance it has seen in 2021 as the last non-election year ahead of the general elections in BiH in 2022, it will hold as the position of the Croatian people in BiH as its legitimate political representation, bearing all this in mind, the Republic of Croatia has strongly indicated on behalf and at all levels, and points to the need to achieve political consensus of these key political parties in BiH, on a broader roof framework electoral law, to ensure that all forms of inequality and discrimination are eliminated through it in the election process. And in order to achieve the equality of all constituent peoples with full, full respect for the rights of others. In the framework of the UN Security Council, Croatia regularly participates in all discussions and calls for an open dialogue on BiH. The Republic of Croatia then participates in all discussions and meetings within the UN Security Council and participates in its national capacity, but also in its capacity as a member of the EU. It has repeatedly stressed support for the Dayton Paris Agreement and the sovereignty and territorial integrity of BiH, with the necessity of respect for the equality of non-discrimination of all three constituent peoples. Within the OSCE, Croatia regularly participates in topics relevant to the situation of Croats in BiH, and in the EU Council regularly participates in discussions on the implementation of the European Court of Human Rights decision in the case of Sejdic Finci against BiH, which emphasises that in the implementation of the judgment in question and connected, it is important that the related decisions take account also of the rulings that require the removal of these discriminations and in the election process, but no, but we always stress, but not leaving the power-sharing mechanism. Emphasising the necessity that all constituent peoples and citizens must be able to choose their legitimate representatives as candidates in the election of the Republic of Croatia further points to the need to implement the decision I have already mentioned, the decisions of Ljubic, the Constitutional Court All this Croatia does systematically, continuously [[Intruder: Thank you.]] and persistent. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u43373	Good morning, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. At the beginning of our plenary session this week we begin with the presentation of the position of representatives clubs and independent representatives. The first is a respected colleague, Ante Kujundzic, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Mosta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u43374	Thank you, Mr. Jandrokovic. Dear Mr. Bukarica, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. In recent days, speculation has been heard, aimed at creating an impression that would result in a kind of ideological forcing to create a majority in the County Assembly of Split-Dalmatia County and between ideologically close parties. Ideologically close parties have had the opportunity in Split-Dalmatia County for many years to show what they know, what they can and of course want and have shown, at all levels of our Croatia, not only at the level of the Split-Dalmatia County. A kind of political OPG click was created, to the greatest extent important to itself and to its own rather than to one form of public good. There are countless such examples, indeed countless. Along with the division of functions and political cakes, Dalmatia has the highest unemployment rate, at least the EU funds withdrawn, the largest number of shut down and robbed plants, the highest rate of distribution, unbalanced investment, employment, the completely devastated Imotska krajina, the Cetinska krajina, and I would dare to say my own start of killing hope for the rest of my hearth. If ideology is a starting point, and the result of this ideology previously mentioned fact, then certainly not, we are not the same ideologies, not a single inch, and we will never, ever be. So whatever someone calls us because their oral ideologies we've listened to and felt largely on our own skin. Political practice is absolutely different from what is presented to the public. So, let's just know one thing, the bridge isn't for sale, and the ideological falsification that part of the voter is still going through is coming to an end, it's coming to an end. The people who created our Croatian HDZ have taken one part of it under their own and skillfully manipulates them for what they don't really care about. These brave men created this state, gave her everything they had without blinking their eyes. They should be allowed to live and dream of a better Croatia the way they were killed, and they will soon see it. A bridge at the Split-Dalmatia County county's county level will not hold a ladder, so it will not hold a ladder for those who are calling for a vertical foothold, disdain all those who think differently. We have witnessed the same not long ago in our Podstrana where one brave, honest and honest woman, Kristina Jerčić, a candidate of the Mosta or our one Miro Bulj, who is one of your civilized educationally named uncivilized pastures. Surely we will not hold a ladder for those who have had the key to unlocking a better life for years, but they do not want to do so. We will not, of course, hold the keys to those who haven't been able to push new young people for years, young forces ahead of two political options, and there are countless, there are indeed countless. A key political message that the HDZ in Split-Dalmatia County shows muscles is the famous vertical of the authorities and privatisation of public money given by the key card. It is incomprehensible that they praise exactly what was worth in the former system, so methodologically more than the apparent similarity of the ruling in their practice with the KPJ is the only difference in the silent discredition of those who do not want to kneel and gremishes to stick to their solemn robes. Who will demand an alibi for the circumvention of changes and with his abstention is the one who will quietly prevent allied changes and extend the duration of a bad policy, let's wait until we see Thursday after the constitutional session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u43440	We are going to another debate, club of IDS MPs, respected colleague Marin Lerotić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u43441	Dear President of the Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues. Croatia is building on its economic growth and development in the years ahead exclusively of us on the money we plan to withdraw from EU funds, primarily through the recovery and resilience mechanism and the multiannual financial framework 2021-2027. It is clear to all of us that the economic growth that lies alone and exclusively on EU funds is not sustainable in the long term. But what is also worrying is that we are not able to withdraw this "European money" properly either. These days, certain information has emerged that the European Commission has revised the Croatian National Recovery and Resistance Plan and that we will potentially lose as much as a billion kuna, which reduces the total amount for a resilient digital and green economy, and this is precisely what a resilient green digital economy has been announced as one of the priorities of the National Recovery Plan. Which of these projects that are pompously presented in the end will be truly realized, we have to see. And the indecision and slowness in decision-making will cost Croatia an additional billion and a half kuna in another case. In particular, following the latest judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, which found that it was in relation to dwellings used by so-called ‘the European Court of Human Rights’. Protected Receipts of the Republic of Croatia Injured the Convention on Human Rights signed in 1997. and opening up opportunities for numerous lawsuits against the state with enormous claims that could ultimately cost the state a billion and a half kuna. So in the end, all of this will be paid by citizens, taxpayers because the state has not been able all these years and quality and enforces legal solutions that would balance interests and rights of the tenants and owners of the apartments. Heading into the sand has come to collect from all of us, and unfortunately they will continue to come because there is no vision and courage for implementing reforms at the legislative level, nor for reforming the judicial system that implements these laws in practice. The acceleration of the necessary reforms is a key prerequisite if we are to take our place in a group of developed European economies, without implementing reforms there is no significant economic growth, and without strong economic growth we are condemned to stagnation and setback, as the other European countries reach and outreach us in a number of scales. The Corona crisis has shown us how our economy is based on tourism is actually sensitive to external influences and shocks, and now we haven't learned some lessons and the question is whether we'll ever get them out. Experience gained during the pandemic and its impact on the world economy must be an incentive for a strong shift in thinking about the future of our economy. Since we are part of the global competition, we must adapt to trends and strengthen our position on the global map, and there is the role of the state of great importance, but not in a way that the state controls the processes in the economy but to create positive and encouraging conditions for the development of entrepreneurship through a competitive tax system and administrative discharge, to bring clear and enforceable laws, to establish an efficient judicial system and to pull out a number of other reform moves. It is the only way to move forward and develop the Croatian economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52529	I thank all those who participated in the debate, and now we will move on to our agenda, the first point. Proposal for a Law on the electricity market, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 146 The applicant is the Government on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs. I will now ask the proposer's representative to give an additional explanation of the above-mentioned bill, with us is the respected State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development, Ivo Milatić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52530	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. The law on the electricity market is one of the basic laws of the energy sector. The first energy market laws and the Electricity Market Act were adopted in 2001. Since then, in order to strengthen market relations and create a common European energy market and in recent times, Member States have adopted energy packages that regulate market participants' relations in order to make a clearer, more integrated and non-discriminatory market. The joint efforts of Member States to accelerate energy transition towards renewable energy as one of the most powerful weapons in the fight against climate change also resulted in a new Directive 944 of the 2019 on the internal electricity market. Thus, this proposal of the Electricity Market Act aims to prepare this market for the challenges of energy transition and the use of clean and renewable electricity, electricity and the exit from the inefficient production of electricity from fossil fuels. In addition, this law aims to boost the production of solar products in citizens' houses throughout the Republic of Croatia because of the introduction of aggregates that create conditions for the growth of solar production in citizens' houses, large numbers of citizens, with so far production. The law therefore regulates relations on the electricity market to ensure continuous, stable supply of renewable energy while at the same time strengthening the role of the buyer, its active participation in the market, as well as reducing energy poverty and imports of energy to the Republic of Croatia. The law also prescribes rules for the production, transfer, distribution, supply, and this time for the first time and storage of electricity, together with aspects of consumer protection in order to create integrated, competitive, flexible, fair and transparent electricity markets in the EU oriented to consumers. The law thus focuses on all markets wholesale, retail, as well as on time in terms of the moment of trade and production planning. This, such a modern law and new relationships and market participants are primarily made possible by technological progress in terms of the introduction of digital platforms and numerical management of systems. I would like to point out in front of the motion that the law was created in the way the directive was also negotiated, which is with the full participation of those responsible for the implementation of this law. These are primarily the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency, the Croatian transmission system operator and the Croatian distribution system operator. They will, through the adoption of their implementing acts, be in charge of effective regulation and system management of each person within the scope of their competence. The law therefore recognises new energy activities and sets new rules and obligations for the transmission operator and the distribution system operator on whose clear, transparent and efficient management rests the development of the power grid and security of electricity supply. The introduction of new activities such as the integration of energy communities, citizens, closed system operators, the storage of energy is primarily possible by technological development and digitisation of systems or smart measurement and production and consumption management at the level of widely distributed electricity storage and production infrastructures. Technological progress should also be used to develop new production capacities owned by citizens, primarily here we think of solar panels not only in family houses but also through energy communities and solar panels on multi-state buildings and businesses clearly which, which are not primarily active, are strengthened by law by the role of a final customer who can actively participate as a producer and consumer. The distributed production or production facilities connected to the distribution system are becoming the backbone of further development, etc. Smart nets. Together with this, existing consumer rights are strengthened and new rights are introduced, as follows, the first right to free choice of suppliers and the restriction of charges for application and termination unless contracts with mandatory duration and fixed prices are terminated before its expiry, the right to access at least one of the tools for comparison that meets certain requirements of reliability, the right to join the energy community of citizens, with the full retention of the rights of customers to leave the Community without penalties, the right to contract with dynamic price fixing, and the right to provide all information on benefits and risks involved, the right to aggregates independent of the supply of electricity, the right to produce, consumption, storage and sales of electricity individually or through aggregates, the right to install a smart number on the decision to also consider cost-effective and the right to energy poor or threatened customers for targeted protection. This balances the rights of customers in the Republic of Croatia with the rights of customers that exist in other EU countries. In accordance with the law, suppliers will have to prepare a free tool to make comparisons of services prices on the market so that final customers can choose for them the most favourable price. The final customers are given better information and control of the electricity bill, the calculation must be clear, accurate, summarised and presented in such a way as to allow for an easy comparison. The new obligations provided by suppliers also help identify vulnerable and energy poor customers who provide assistance, thus affecting the reduction of energy poverty. One of the new instruments introduced by the law is the aggregate as an energy entity and aggregate as an energy activity creating new and more dynamic market relations. It is the aggregater that will allow its market service to coordinate distributed production with consumption on a wider platform through the establishment of the so-called "supply". virtual networks. The law lays down transparent rules granting roles and responsibilities to all market participants and laying down rules for the exchange of data between all market participants, which is crucial for the efficient operation of the aggregaters. Providers and aggregates will bring new services to the market and will be responsible for the management of consumption and ensure that the compensation for their work reflects the benefits of spending management. In the basic unit, in the physical sense of the exchange of electricity will take place within the energy community of citizens. They will, through their legal and non-profit personality under the control of the owner of the share or members whose relations are based on voluntary and open participation, be able to participate in the production, distribution, supply and consumption of energy efficiency services or charging services for electric vehicles, and provide other energy services to their members or owners of the share. As the energy communities of citizens are concerned with the exchange of energy within the community, it is limited at low voltage level or to a transformer station and counted at higher voltage. Within that infrastructure space, all participants of the energy community of citizens and in their accounting measurement places shall be subject to the defined rules on the sharing of electricity, which shall be taken into account by the distribution system operator. It should be stressed in the conditions of distributed production that these participants, i.e. energy community aggregaters, create conditions for the production of electricity to be found on the market and spent on the nearest site of production, and encourage the creation of virtual power grids. The law updates the rules on access to measurement data and consumption data or the production of network operators of suppliers and service providers. A regulatory framework shall also be established to facilitate the connection of the place of charge of electric vehicles to the distribution network. An entrepreneurial initiative is expected, especially by suppliers of fuel from local communities, and charging stations are considered to be the ultimate buyer of electricity. An important paper governed by this bill is the implementation of a public tender for the issue of energy approval for the construction of electricity or heat or electricity storage plants by the ministry, in accordance with objective and transparent and non-discriminatory criteria. This will create a safe and stable climate for future investors and effectively valorise the energy potential of the Republic of Croatia. Energy approvals are therefore extended to power storage facilities, and according to this, the activity of energy storage that has not been in the law so far is being introduced. The storage of electricity addresses the issue of inability to produce and the sun or wind current surpluses or market shortages. Energy approval becomes an initial document for the development of electricity production and storage projects in a spatially planned, environmentally acceptable and electro-energy way. The law stresses the importance of the transmission and distribution system operator for the stability of work and development of systems and networks. Thus, the operators of these two systems are responsible for ensuring the long-term capacity of the system to meet the transmission and distribution requirements of electricity including cost-effective integration of new power generation plants, in particular those producing electricity from renewable sources. Operators must continue to be independent in their work in terms of their legal form of organisation and decision-making, and in this respect certain requirements are strengthened. In the case of a transmission system operator, the CAPS, since the infrastructure link is with other markets and transmission system operators, the request of the Directive of 2019 has been explicitly and amended in relation to the same in the 2009 Directive and the company has to be regulated in the form of a share company. In this regard, we stress that no repercusion should have the same decision on ownership issues, which means that the CAPS will continue to be owned by HEP d.d. 100%. Respected parliamentary representatives and MPs, aware of the importance and roles of this law on energy transition and economic development of the Republic of Croatia, we are convinced that through today's debate we will further clarify and improve the text of this Act, in the interest and to the benefit of citizens, in particular in terms of production and solar systems, the installation of batteries and the use of aggregates that this Law adopts and ultimately, the cost of electricity for citizens, in the interests of entrepreneurship, or of all participants in the electricity market and who will get applicable and useful legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52531	Thank you, Secretary of State. Now let's go with the replicas. There's a total of 10. The first one's a respected colleague, Vesna Nadj, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52532	I thank the president of HS. Dear Secretary of State Milatić. According to you, will this Electricity Market Act allow all citizens of the Republic of Croatia to have access to or use electricity because we have seen in the media, for example, that in Banovina or Banovina some citizens cannot use electricity. We are a social state, at least we should be, all citizens should be able to use electricity without saying that our, our places, our villages, our cities should all have public lighting. In what time will all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia be allowed to use electricity? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52533	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52534	The previous law, and this Law makes it clear that it allows all citizens of the Republic of Croatia to use electricity and it deals with the electricity market. What we are today, which is today the case, which is that one part of the Republic of Croatia, unfortunately because of the war circumstances, has run out of connections because the infrastructure has been devastated. So this law, in terms of creating new market stakeholders, creating aggregaters, closed distribution systems and generally, market play, will certainly help to make this happen as soon as possible. Of course, through the National Recovery Plan and all these funds that are HEP ODS and HOPS will get through this plan. They will physically help them to have enough capital to have these remaining parts, especially Banovina, that with what they make sooner and I hope in that warmly that it will happen quickly.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52535	Comrade Totgergeli, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52536	Thank you, President HS, Your Honor, Secretary of State, this is the Law on the Power Market, but somehow it feels like this is exactly the law that opens the door completely for the installation of small solar power plants into the electricity system. If you agree with that thesis, here, explain a little bit more why it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52537	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52538	Thanks for asking. You recognized exactly that, so now we're past all the directives, it was exclusively a Croatian product, we've had production for self-consumption since 2018. Some media have had to record contributions to Slovenia, that it is a practice there, and it is already 4.5 years in Croatia, unfortunately. And on Croatian television. But, uh, as far as this goes, you're right. So this Law opens up the possibility that what has often been said in this House that Croatian citizens will produce electricity from their solar plants, that is, this Law. It allows it to be greatly possible, that you can produce electricity from your solars, that you can store it in your house in your battery, and is an aggregater and through your own, your supplier can use it, trade, along with you to participate in the market and enable you to pay very quickly for that investment, plus that your electricity in general is cheaper, means absolutely encourages solars on the houses.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52539	Thank you. Comrade Baricevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52540	Thanks to the well-respected president of HS, distinguished secretary of state, here, today's Proposal for a Law on the electricity market, I am particularly interested in what it will bring for the Croatian islands, will it continue to enable investments in renewable energy sources on our Croatian islands and will the law facilitate investment in energy infrastructure to help strengthen Croatia's economy?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52541	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52542	Thank you. As far as this Law is concerned, it clearly encourages not only the Croatian islands but the entire Republic of Croatia. It is designed to be unique and unequivocal in terms of building electricity infrastructure, especially when it comes to building power plants. So we have now clearly and unequivocally put the state first and this country through its energy ministry to monitor the process from the beginning to the end and that anyone who does not end the state land as the law did, predicted, practically excludes it from the process because our task is to keep the state land in function, which is what the spatial plan envisions. Certainly this Law contributes to development and electricity infrastructure, especially the island because it simply enables the solarisation of the island, which is our first and primary task now.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52543	Thank you. Comrade Jelkovac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52544	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, Secretary of State. This law certainly goes towards the goal of even better consumer protection, and in addition to changing suppliers within 24 hours and more precise and better protection provisions, a new measurement system will also be introduced which should be more transparent and allow users and consumers to have as soon as possible the precise state of consumption and thus contribute to savings. I wonder what this new system is going to be like. Are there deadlines until when he will be introduced and will he be understood and available to our older fellow citizens? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52545	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52546	The deadlines are defined in the law that we would now not have a few years for this smart system, clearly these systems will be available with time on smart phones, and for older citizens who will eventually not use smartphones, this system still allows you to pick your suppliers quickly and possibly aggregates and older people will be able to use companies that specialize in monitoring your consumption and choosing the best model in fact they will be able to actively participate in the market and be an active customer regardless of their theoretical knowledge in information. So this law has prescribed that all these companies can be and that citizens can be themselves, that's the idea of us all being the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52547	Thank you. Comrade Maric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52548	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Secretary of State. It is clear that our goal is to increase these renewable energy sources, here in particular as regards the busyness of roofs across Croatia with solar panels, if you have any knowledge of what a percentage or number is now in Croatia, and how this law will affect the next five years to really increase the number of solar panels on roofs, not just family houses, but the buildings you mentioned, because if you do some calculations, if you want to spend over a year what you spend as electricity using solar panels, you have to make up for these prices of these photovoltaic modules, some 20,000 kunas, so only in ten years will it be worth it to you. Obviously people aren't just motivated, they don't have some kind of financial bill. So how will the state in practice achieve as much production as possible through solar panels as possible in some other countries. In Germany you have almost every house with these solar panels occupied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52549	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52550	We now encourage solar installation, each year the Environmental Protection and Energy Efficiency Fund gives significant resources, these funds go from 40% to 80% of investment participation, which means that practically this investment pays off then very quickly to the citizen since the fund covers the cap. What this law provides is that you will have an aggregater and a supplier who will participate in your investments if it is worth it, and you will be paid as a citizen. So this law allows solarisation to practically go into a large percentage and a large part because other than these support that the state will provide for the very drive here, the market is now being included and it is being included in your house in a way that it will, through the ESCO and other models, be more motivated to make you a solar plant and in such a way that you get cheaper electricity, and it comes to the goal and its production.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52551	Thank you. Comrade Peovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52552	Good afternoon, Mr. Milatic. I certainly welcome some solutions such as easier solar installation, the formation of these energy communities, allowing people to store energy and to have it at their disposal in any case and to be more protected in this competition against those who produce electricity. But what bothers me is that this law states that our citizens are willing to take responsibility for the energy transition by making maximum use of new technologies to reduce the amount of their accounts. So we live in a country that is constantly progressing on a scale of poverty and social depression where millions of people are almost living in conditions of poverty, and 6.6% of people can't afford to heat up in the coldest months. From where did this trust in our consumer who will now become so to speak the lion in the competition [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52553	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52554	If we didn't trust our citizens, then it wouldn't make any sense at all to do our job. It is clear that whether this law and the benefits of this law will be accepted by a large number of citizens, it will depend greatly on our communication with citizens, on distributors and suppliers, that they will organise all these within which time they will put smart standards. And clearly, this law is playing the market, and trust me when the market is on, and then it will come to our citizens who are potentially now and not interested. Just remember the mobile phone as it went at first and as it is today. This is kind of like a cell phone in this power plant right now. So the aggregaters, suppliers and distributors they will include that our citizens will be informed and we are convinced of that.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52555	Thank you. Comrade Kirin, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52556	Honorable President, Your Honor. The privatisation of HEP or its parts has been discussed for years, now the question has been raised again in public in light of the adoption of a new Electricity Market Act. The ministry disproves the possibility, they say that HEP privatisation d.d. or its parts are not planned but there will be a change of the Croatian transmission system operator from d.o.o. in d.d., it is clear, many particularly in the public debate therefore voice suspicion, fear or have information that has not been informed of the ministry. Please comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52557	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52558	Absolutely as I said in my previous speech, rather than strictly respecting the directive where the directive, in the Croatian literary language, writes the stock society. So the CAPS can no longer be a limited liability society, but a stock company. And we made it clear to the law. The debate that the owner of the CAPS will be someone third out of the question will be HEP as he was and now the owner of the CAPS and that's it. Speculation that someone thinks something, we're free country everyone can think what they want, we know what we think, and that's that the situation is what it is and there's no need to change it just so we have to respect the directive, and among other things, the stock society is both tighter and better shape in terms of trade law and we as a responsible state have no problem with this happening, it's just for better, better safeguarding the interests of the Republic of Croatia. as owner of HEP. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52559	Comrade Pavić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52560	Among other things, respected secretaries are defined in the law as the concept of the energy community and it is defined that in this community they can be members of both natural persons and legal persons and craftsmen and small entrepreneurs and local self-government. Is it intended somewhere, in this law, whether it is provided for by some other law or by some other act that these communities may report to a tender opened by the Environmental Protection Fund or whether other competitions which may be notified by those grant communities are envisaged, since we know that the investment is large enough and whether citizens will enter that investment unless they can report as a community or report as individuals.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52561	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52562	Thank you. I mean, by this law, we can't prescribe where they can call where they can't answer. All participants in this law can very, in principle, report to certain support and funds. I don't see any reason why the energy community won't be able to report to these, these competitions in the future, and first let the energy communities start to form, to see how HER and the other regulatory authorities will be able to handle all of this, how it will work, and clearly there's no obstacle in talking to the Environmental Protection Fund this as a first counterpartment that might not see that maybe some support programmes don't put in place then and the energy community, because the energy community is actually like we're now funding the target for solarists on the roofs there we would finance citizens and possibly some companies in energy communities which, in my opinion, shouldn't be a problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52563	Thank you. Comrade Blažević, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52564	Thank you very much. Here I am, in fact, part of the answer I have already received in your response to my colleague Jelkovac, and it is about adapting the old people and getting them through this law that I consider to be a step in time, giving an emphasis to all the participants in fact and in the market. This is one reform in a positive way, and I am particularly glad that consumer protection concerns are being taken care of. I am now interested in whether customers will be able to use multiple times, or whether they will be limited to the number of changes in the supplier during that five-year period within 24 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52565	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52566	As far as I'm concerned, I don't think the number can be limited just knowing what is the shortest time and possibly the only difficult circumstance for the customer can be if he agreed by his own signature to prevent himself from, yes, that, for some time, this one can't change, but the intensity of the free market that suppliers can change according to the precise rules. Theoretically Croatian citizens can also take suppliers from another country in Croatia under this law. In principle, this very rarely happens that this supplier will be interested in organising something, but in a legal sense nothing is forbidden which is good.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52567	And he's the last of his colleagues, Simicevic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52568	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, I am pleased to have passed the law and I am pleased to invest in renewable energy sources. I would like to problem the relationship between nuclear energy and renewable energy sources, what is the price in kilowatt and whether Croatia will continue to be dependent on nuclear energy. And the next question is, will citizens now be protected from any malfeasance through a smart system? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52569	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52570	As far as nuclear energy is concerned, you know well that we are co-owners of 50% and HEP on behalf of Croatia 50% in Krško Nuclear Power Plant, and it is clear that this is one significant source of electricity that comes into the Republic of Croatia, the truth is that God registers who imports, and in fact it is originally our current, it will function while legally and in any other sense, it will be possible to the environment. As for the protection of citizens, it is clear that this law defines all procedures and all rules that will clearly be brought through regulatory bodies to protect the citizen. We're not saying that until today, the citizen has not been protected, he's protected today, but here I think it's literally accurate to, to the end and to the last line and sentence and there's no reason not to believe it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52571	I thank the Secretary of State, you can return to your post. Now we'll see if the committee's reporters will take the floor? If not, I'm opening a debate. The first is the Club of Representatives of the SDP and esteemed counterpart Zeljko Pavić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52572	Thank you very much. The Honorable President of the Assembly, respected state secretaries with co-workers, distinguished counterparts and fellow MPs, is here before us the proposal for a Law on the Electricity Market, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia has sent to the Croatian Assembly as well as many laws that are in fact harmonising the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with EU legislation. This law is among other things one of the laws which should support in one part the achievement of the objectives defined in the National Strategy for Development of the Republic of Croatia until 2030, and we must not forget the low-carbon development strategy of the Republic of Croatia, noting that the Law on Renewable Energy has not yet been found on the HS agenda, so that we will be able to see the overall impact of the prescribed and regulations relating to green energy only after discussion and adoption and this... The law. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I hope it'll be on the agenda soon. As the SDP Club, we welcome that in the law, great attention has been paid to end-users and their rights as a fact that it has not forgotten about the protection of consumer data, so in this debate, I will look back at the parts of the proposal that are related to their consumer rights and the part that could actually be of great benefit to consumers. Particular attention is drawn to new regulatory rules which should be more detailed in the relationship between end-users and suppliers and which should provide additional protection and security to end-users. As regards consumers and their rights and regulatory rules, what is a little confusing is the fact that in the draft law in part of the assessment of the situation and the personal issues that need to be regulated by law, and the consequences that the adoption of the law will result in very optimistic talk about new regulatory rights and, among other things, I will quote this because of the figure that is set out here. So this is how it says it. The new regulatory rules include the overall framework for consumer protection, information and empowerment of the end-user's role where the same must have clear terms of the supplyer contract and allow it to change the supplier within 24 hours in the next 5-year period, i.e. the wording in the description. Providers must prepare a free tool to make it available... The entire market service so that final customers can choose for them the most favourable option, we also heard it in the presentation of Mr. Secretary, means information support and everything else necessary for all customers to have it. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The final customers must be given better information and control of the electricity bill. New supply obligations also help suppliers identify vulnerable and energy poor customers, which provide assistance and thus affect the reduction of energy poverty. By interpreting this part of the law, we can conclude that this law will also result in additional investment in infrastructure in a part related to smart numbers which are not rules in Croatia for now but are an exception, and that in order to implement this law, steps will have to be made in that part and invested in the shortest possible time in advanced settlement systems, which will trigger other industrial branches and develop support, so that new investments are legitimately expected. However, although the cited part of the bill states that in order to protect consumers and its information and strengthen its end-user role, it will need to clearly define the terms of the supplyer contract and allow it to change its supplier within 24 hours in the next 5-year period, and that this information will be optimistic. That same optimism goes wrong when we read the article. The 22nd century of the 1st century, which states, means the subject is the same, we just heard 24 hours ago, in Art. Paragraph 1 shall read: The process of changing the supplier and the aggregate must be completed as soon as possible and no later than 3 weeks from the date of the request of the network user in accordance with the rules on changing the supplier and the aggregater. So those 24 hours that are listed there are falling into the water. Of course, it is not clear now whether the assessment of the effect of the law is about good wishes for users or whether peas have been stolen in that part of the bill or the error has been substantiated in Article. In the 22nd century, the difference is also great for the consumer, I say, puts the consumer in a significantly different position. If indicated in art. In the 22nd century, the exact ones of the end-user put in a significantly more unfavourable position because the difference within the period of treatment is 20 days, or compared to the 24 hours indicated in the assessment of the effect of the law, the difference is 480 hours. I think we'll all agree that during that time period, a large amount of electricity is being spent and that we need to meet the end-user as much as possible. It is clear to all of us that without a smart number system, changing operators within 24 hours will not be possible or will be extremely difficult to perform, so there is also an additional problem related to this problem. The introduction of an advanced measurement system is not defined by this law, but the bill states that the introduction of an advanced measurement system will be decided by the Minister by its decision on the basis of an economic assessment of all long-term costs and the benefits of such a system for the market and of a single final buyer by taking into account the economically sound and cost-effective form of the system of forward measurement, as well as the timeframe of the introduction of the system of advanced measurement that is available for system operatives. So this is actually going to reflect in this way that one part of our users will certainly not get an advanced measurement system and that this change in operator and within 3 weeks will be questionable, I think actually given the current state of the field that will be impossible. So, when and what decision will be taken by the minister, we do not know, or what will be the real effects for the final consumer. With a decision to be taken by the minister, the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency must include which should make an economic assessment, so I think we rightly fear that the 24-hour optimistic figure within which the operator should be able to change will be nothing, at least for the next few years. These facts are still discouraging when they are placed in the context of the provisions of Art. 33. which refers to the introduction of an advanced measurement system at the request of the end-user and states in section 4, that if it itself submits a request for the installation of an advanced number, the end-user will bear the costs of purchasing and installing an advanced number, and we know that these costs are not small and the question is when such investment will be paid. Even though it's in art. 32. defines the introduction into the area of the Republic of Croatia of an advanced measurement system which contributes to the active participation of final customers in the electricity market in accordance with Article 32. 30 and 31 of this Act shall be ensured by the Ministry and that the costs of introducing an advanced measurement system will be taken into account when approving the plans for the development of system operators and considering the eligible costs in determining the tariff items for the transmission of electricity and tariff items for the distribution of electricity. So one part of the law provides that these costs will be recognised to operators, but unless they are systematically done, unless they are systematically applied and if the end-user wants to have a smart measurement system or an advanced measurement system, then they will have to pay for it themselves. I said before, the question is how worthwhile it will be for them and whether they will actually be getting involved in it at all. So it is almost certain that for a number of end-users, or that they will not be able to comply with legal provisions, or that a certain number of consumers will have to have investments in smart numbers or in an advanced measurement system. What is just as interesting to us as the Social Democrats, the secretary in one part explained the provisions that should be good, advanced and economically profitable for end-users are related to the energy community of citizens through whom it is defined among other things that the owner of the share and member in the energy community of citizens can be of course also natural persons whose place of residence is in the unit of local self-government where the energy community is based, so it is interesting to see that we know how it will be regulated, that these communities will be able to report later on grant tenders, since we know that the installation of the panel is extremely expensive and that the return of the investment is extremely long. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52573	Thank you. We're going to another debate, the HDZ Representatives Club, a respected colleague, Miro Totgergeli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52574	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State with Associates. My colleagues and fellow MPs. In front of us, the new me would even say the modern draft law on the electricity market and, among other things, it is true that our legislation is in line with European legislation. The root changes currently taking place in the energy system are primarily aimed at decarbonising the system and the energy transition towards clean energy, and therefore this new law is needed to monitor the market for these changes in the energy system. Market relations in the electricity sector have been gradually introduced since 2001. And that 20-year experience we have has been integrated into this bill. When we set ourselves up for the purpose of decarbonising the system and energy transition towards clean energy where the key role plays electricity, then it became necessary for the power system to open up, bring close to the final buyer or manufacturer, or define the rules so that all the imagination and creativity of the customers come to the point that the customer can also directly trade with the manufacturer. Of course, 20 years ago and technically it was completely inconclusive, and the progress of technology today allows all of this, provided that we need new measurement technologies and installed into the system, and of course we need some time. With new legal solutions and technology development, it is possible to achieve a single internal market that will be better integrated and better protected from system interruptions and at the same time allow for a large integration of renewable energy sources and stronger market orientation and, in particular, consumer rights and final customers in that market. The new regulatory rules include the overall framework for consumer protection, information and empowerment of the end-user's role where the same must have clear terms of the supplyer contract and allow it to change the supplier within 24 hours during the next five-year period, so over five years. Providers must prepare a free tool that will be available to all customers so that they can easily compare what one of the suppliers offers and where it is best for the final customer or which supplier to go to to get the best possible benefit, I think of the buyer himself. It enables the creation of new legal forms that participate in the energy market with the aim of enabling all final customers to participate in the energy transition by managing their own electricity consumption and implementing measures to improve energy efficiency with a view to achieving energy savings. The objectives of renewable energy can only be achieved through the creation of a market framework that rewards flexibility and innovation and where final customers are allowed to be holders of flexible consumption based on the market principles needed to adapt the electricity system to variable and distributed sustainable electricity production. A technological step in the management of the power grid and of course the application of new technologies in production is necessary. The intention of this law is to empower customers in a way that provides them with the necessary tools that contribute to stronger participation in the energy market because this law is precisely aimed at making all citizens benefit from the internal electricity market and thus achieving the objectives of renewable energy. In order to promote competition and to ensure electricity supply at the most competitive price, cross-border access should be made possible to new suppliers from different sources of energy and to new providers of production, energy storage and consumption management. It is in this sense that this law sets up a system that removes unnecessary barriers to market entry, market work and exit from the electricity market. For all customer groups, it is necessary to allow access to the out-of-bus and stock market of electricity, capacity market, balancing services and assistance services in all time frames in order to enable all to trade their own flexibility and electricity produced themselves as well as to make use of all the advantages of association of production and supply in order to achieve a significant benefit within the system and from cross-border competition. Decarbonisation of the transport sector and reduction of emissions from the transport sector, in particular in urban areas, are important for the role of electromobility in contributing to the achievement of those objectives. Moreover, the introduction of electromobility is an important element of energy transition. The market rules set out in this law should contribute to the creation of more favourable conditions for electric vehicles of all kinds, and in particular to ensure the effective introduction of publicly available and private places for charge of electric vehicles and the effective integration of charge of vehicles into the system. The introduction of a new Energy Community Institute is aimed at offering all customers the opportunity to participate directly in the production, consumption or sharing of electricity. The initiatives for energy communities of citizens located in a closed distribution system are primarily aimed at providing affordable energy by, specific types of renewable energy, and that is to all users or owners of a share in a production or storage facility, rather than in the way in which they are achieved, as is the case with traditional electricity companies. Energy from the citizens' energy community can also improve energy efficiency at household level, helping to prevent energy poverty by reducing consumption and lower supply tariffs. Customers in the household category should be allowed to participate voluntarily in initiatives to create an energy community of citizens and not to remain without access to a network managed by the energy community of citizens or without losing the first to which they belong as customers in the event of exit. Access to the network of the energy community of citizens is possible by respecting fair conditions with the supervision of the regulatory agency in the same way as it does with regard to access to other networks. The accounts are also an important form where end customers can be well informed, and in this respect there are new solutions, and in order to include all end customers, appropriate incentives and appropriate technologies such as, of course, advanced measurement systems, which, above all, the holder of the introduction of advanced measurement systems will be HEP ODS, a time period in which it is necessary to do so for a certain percentage of customers and without an advanced measurement system, without the proper implementation of this bill will not live because the large role of the HOPS and HEP ODS in the application of this law, which I think they are fully prepared. Under this proposal, the law allows access to energy services to enable citizens to exploit their potential and increase social inclusion. Energy poor households cannot afford such energy services because of the combination of low income, high energy consumption and poor energy efficiency of their homes. The data collection system to increase the number of energy poor households is being implemented in cooperation with the social care system. In order to progress towards a fully decarbonised electricity system, progress must also be made with regard to seasonal energy storage. Such energy storage is an element that would serve as a tool for the operation of an electricity system to enable short-term and seasonal adjustments, in order to address the problem of the variability of the production of electricity from renewable sources and associated losses in those periods. Regulatory authorities should ensure that transmission system operators and distribution system operators take appropriate measures to make their network more resilient and flexible. This law also aims to achieve the energy union's objectives effectively and the specific climate and energy policy frameworks by 2030. As I have already said, this is a new modern law whose implementation fully opens the door to renewable energy sources, and most small solar power plants. The HDZ supports this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52575	Thank you, too. We're going to the third debate, the House Movement Representatives Club and Honored colleague Davor Dretar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52576	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished state secretaries with associates, colleagues and colleagues, lobbyists at all costs want to impose on Croatia a model without CO2 emissions, although this country has shut down almost all industrial consumers. They obviously felt that Croats were suitable for big ventures about the green future even though the population had moved to a place where wind power plants and huge solar power plants would come into existence one day. Speaking of lobbyists, it is important that the Croatian public knows that the vice president of the Croatian lobbyist society is directly linked to lobbying in the energy of the current minister's wife. However, it should be pointed out that companies that have built other renewable sources, wind power plants, biomass or biogas plants and solar power plants also have profits that are not less than 25% of the revenue. The simple question is whether the protection of the climate comes down to the unscrupulous wealth of individuals, and did this noble idea experience a complete fiasco here in Croatia? The drastic example is also a very popular affair related to the wind power plant Krš-Padene. It also involves major state institutions responsible for energy, Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development, HERA, Croatian Energy Market Operator. It is not up here to remind another Croatian citizen that the preferential tariff for Krš-Pađen is EUR 15 per megawatt hour less than the famous tariffs set by the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, and they amount to EUR 109 per megawatt hour. Krsh-Paden has 94 RURs. How about another comparison? In Germany, the preferential tariff after 6 years. The wind power plant is 49.5 megawatt hours, EUR per megawatt hour, I apologize. Money from the incentive for such produced energy does not stay in Croatia but rather goes to foreign countries that not only sell their product to us but we reward them abundantly with incentives. Direct profit for the Croatian industry is very small, Croatia does not produce essential components for wind power plants or solar power plants, the industry is based on the production of hydropower plants that are equally renewable sources, but are put aside, do we read here again the influence of lobbyists? 80% of the parts and equipment for hydropower plants are produced in Croatia, except of course the turbines that were produced until apparently the very quality work destroyed the only company in Karlovac that could produce them. The HEP administration set up by the prime minister is implementing an energy policy that encourages the construction of wind power plants and solar power plants while, on the other hand, we are completely ignoring the hydropotential our country is abounding. The president of HEP's administration thus boasts that HEP has invested and built the first wind power plant in Croatia that is not in the incentive system, which is a state-owned company from the foreign company Nordex agreed to deliver turbines for a built wind power plant of about half a billion budget kunas, so honest congratulations. Another important detail. Finally, 5338 gigawatt hours and 29% required electricity were produced in hydro power plants, the thermal power plants slightly more than 4000 gigawatt hours, Krško nuclear power plant 3020 gigawatt hours, and HEP's wind power plant Corlat produced 52 gigawatt hours, and solar power plants and bio power plants 26 gigawatt hours. Of course, there are great staff decisions. A complete and professional fit in HEP production has been removed over the past few years. A hearing aid has been brought to their place that cannot make a single decision without the chairman of the administration’s approval, so air conditioning. The HEP group made a consolidated net profit of $1.46 billion last year, which is more than 61.1 million last year. Unfortunately, even though it sounds nice, that's what defeats management. According to the views of all relevant economists, HEP is a company that needs to reinvest and be an industrial driver, and raise the entire economy of the Republic of Croatia with its investments. I'll start with a little quote from this bill. Electricity accounts are an important means of informing final customers, etc., etc. The final customers, and especially the customers of the household category, should have access to flexible arrangements for real payment of their accounts. Access to energy services allows citizens to exploit their potential and increase their social inclusion, we must admit, sounds extraordinary. Energy poor households here are mentioned, and it seems to me that in Croatia we also have existentially poor households, not just energy. We agree, and we will always agree with the claim "if you spent your salary", there is no dispute about it, but how to pay when you're not even sure how much you spent, if your bills are blocked for the first unpaid war, if you're standing in a 100-metre line to open a secure account. These are all extraordinary ideas. Now, we're going to move a little bit to the famous electromobility, we have to say it sounds extraordinary. The decarbonisation of the transport sector, especially in urban areas, is fantastic, as if we're watching some Ridley Scott movie. What are we talking about here? About the country that gave 15 million kunas this year for the purchase of electric cars, and that's what one morning people took over. Give me three hundred million, let's do this carbonization with a serious project, build a network of chargers because how we're gonna put hundreds of thousands of electric vehicles on the road, and we won't have them where to load them. It seems to me that in this brilliant bill that we are really working for the 21st century, we have ignored the fact that energy through responsibility and through readiness, and primarily through the will of those who run this country, we stand in the 18th century. The law is this, to end up with another quote from the same. The law is this, with the aim of creating integrated, competitive, flexible, fair and transparent electricity markets across the EU, which are focused on final customers. Oh, how proud that sounds. I propose that, with this Law on the electricity market, we also have the same courage and firm will in the urgent parliamentary procedure, we start with the classification of the population for the first Croatian mission to Mars. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52577	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the promoter, the Honorable Secretary of State Ivo Milatić will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52578	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of HS, I am obliged to intervene on this, to present Mr. Dretar because it's simply the law on the electricity market, and this, much of your exposure has been so interesting. But I simply must say that connecting my minister and anyone from his family with everything that happened in energy to you is absolutely deplaced. It's been known since Mr. Ćorić became minister, and this is all you're talking about what's been happening in some time and long ago when it's happened and that's how it is and how it is, we'll see. As for accusing HEP and the state that we've totally abandoned the hydropotential, it's also declassified, you know well that... makes it reversible to the Blace Power Plant, that there is a private project that also works on the Reversible Vrdovo Power Plant, so that hydro, there are a large number of small projects that talk about hydropotential, and say why HEP entered wind power plants, why they enter solar plants on Cres and Vis and on other parts, is also the same at the very least, funny, what should HEP do? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] HEP should allow the energy transition to occur only in the private sector without the state-owned company HEP being included inside. It's going to be more and more involved and say that HEP invested 500 million kunas in the Corlat wind power plant, then it's going to turn out that we're some crazy state here, that we're starting to work wind power plants from the state budget. It is clear that HEP has invested this from its assets because the credit or their assets that have come from, in accordance with the positive regulations, are logically required to invest the funds in order to build a power plant. The plant only paid for almost anything HEP should've given this to the owner of the project. So here I categorically refuse the thesis that it's just this, what we're doing today, when I'm talking to me, then I think of the HEP in which he manages the Republic and this, and through his body, that it's something wrong, however, it's right. As for electromobility and this euphoric approach, like a fairy tale. It's not a fairy tale at all. We are aware of this as one country which is extremely touristic to electromobility in terms of the charge room our absolute priority. In the National Recovery Plan, we left serious resources. This year, the Fund plans to spend significant funds on electricity, especially chargers. As far as the vehicle is concerned, it could be agreed that we have money to be a larger amount of vehicle resources, but first what we have to do is infrastructure for those vehicles. Our guests will come to us with an electric vehicle, our first priority of state investment is in the electric charging infrastructure, and then later for the purchase of the vehicle. Who is happier than all of us here in this assembly and all those who look at us and the citizens of this country that we have enough budget funds to give 300 and 500 million for the purchase of electric vehicles. We need to be a little bit real. Well, we've got the earthquake and Covid and we've got 100 other things. It's easy to talk, come on. We are going towards what is realistic, towards where we will reach our traffic targets, how we will meet our traffic goals, how, in a way that we will have chargers and that our guests will be able to come to us, and in time we will also buy electric vehicles. This would be about briefly, and this, I'm just sorry that this law is essentially not said what you often stress, which is that it allows for the solarisation of Croatia, to enable aggregate, to enable the construction of new solar large power plants that have been in stasis so far, and clearly that it enables the construction of new production capacities and the achievement of our electricity targets.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52579	Thank you very much. We've got more replicas on your exhibit, the first of those respected MPs, Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52580	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of HS, Your Honor, Secretary of State. You asked a question that we're a crazy country. Well, if that were the subject of this House's agenda, I'm sure the assembly would be on the way and the debate would be interesting. But let's go back to the topic that is. Among other things, in the process of public debate, independent trade unions strongly opposed the provisions of the article. The 86th century, i.e. forgive, No. 14 which provides for a change in the legal form of HOPS from a limited liability society, a stock company. I am one of those who thinks that we should look into the future, that we cannot stay cemented in place, that the EU is moving forward and that we are coughing all the time, and that we need to have a proactive, that I am also thinking pro-actively about this law. You, therefore, independent unions pretend that there wasn't a conversation with you, that the rest is that it doesn't comply with the directive, so please, either You would do well to respond [[Intruder: Thank you.]] What exactly is it about? [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52581	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52582	I, when I mentioned a crazy state, thought I made myself clear. And as for this union thing, we are in accordance with the law on the commission that is responsible for this issue, and also with the energy in which the unions held a meeting, and we have received support for this law by majority vote. True God, the unions were abstentions, they had a separate opinion, we explained to the unions why we disagree with their separate opinion, clearly, we respect the union's opinion, but we cannot agree that without reason no, no, no, this one is not implementing the directive and we will get penals and penalties and we cannot agree that some institutions that exist in the directive do not apply if we estimate that these institutes are okay. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52583	The next replica of the respected representative, Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52584	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State here in this bill of law we have a few articles on advanced measurement systems or advanced numbers. How long do you think it's going to be installed in the next few years? Some end customers already have specific digital numbers, let's say we have a digital number on the apartment at sea but we still have to pay compensation even for those months when we're not down, so the reading fee. Do you think it's okay to pay that fee when you're neither spending nor down and how much this system of digital numbers is actually going to prevent that kind of driving of end customers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52585	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52586	Thank you. The system of digital numbers will make it clear that what you said is what you would say rightly in every sense of the word. What Mr. Pavić was saying earlier, it's about the next one. We predicted digitization, we predicted that the minister would bring the program that we would have and use to obtain numbers clearly that we had predicted on the other side where there was no digitisation and this maximum time limit to happen because we can't say now there's digitisation, and there's actually no digitalization yet, but it's in the bandages that we don't do this second part. The answer to your question is simple, as soon as we introduce digital numbers and by '25. We have the opportunities and co-financing of funds and we will do it as much as we can before all consumers are even and less cut off under quotes.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52587	The next replica of the respected MP, Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52588	I'm glad there's something mentioned here that we've been interested in for a while. So, you mentioned electromobility, the priority are that electric chargers on our roads will come electric cars, guests with electric cars must be provided with chargers, and we also need to enable infrastructure for the development of our electric cars so in the National Recovery and Resistance Plan there are the words of the two companies mentioned. So one is Project Mobility d.o.o. which is intended to be awarded 1.5 billion kuna for the development of this particular project means a charging room for electric cars somewhere in Zagreb. I'm interested in what you expect from this company, what she's even thinking of developing, so whether she's thinking about buying a solution outside or developing her solutions because many are calculating exactly that this is the first one. And secondly, so Project Mobility d.o.o. has not even registered its website right now So which company is it really about? [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52589	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52590	In particular, it is the part that covers colleagues from this part who are exclusively concerned with the economy and energy because in this part of which I am responsible there is no company in the national plan, so that I would not say anything to you here, not check it out. We'll check and we'll send you to the club this answer, so it doesn't happen now if we tell you something wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52591	The next replica of the respected representative Pavic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52592	Dear secretary, we also know throughout history that energy has actually been quite developed and that it has been taken care of in the Republic of Croatia for energy, regardless of whether it was electricity or oil or some other source of energy, and I am glad that you mentioned this systematic approach today and that there is actually going to be some order of costs that we will not register cars first without having solved the mobile infrastructure, the electroinfrastrukut. And that's really commendable. But what I'm interested in, since here's the summer is on the island, one beautiful island for 30 years how do you mean to solve it on the islands? Whether these are exclusively solar power plants, to build this car charger and actually increase these capacities because they didn't want to in a few years we'll have a large number of tourists coming with electric cars to those islands, and the chargers won't take it because today when the third box in the village is involved they don't do it anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52593	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52594	As far as the island is concerned, you know that from a time more than 10 years ago, a decision has been made not to work on the islands of a wind power plant means exclusively a solar power plant. All projects that are renewable on islands are projects in solar power plants. We are initiating this law and energy approval and everything else is in favour of making these projects. As for the capacity of these solar power plants clearly they will depend on the environment itself and each other, but we do not worry about the capacity of general power supply to the islands or detachment because in the national recovery plan and the modernisation fund we predicted to change up to one submarine cable that lasted and 60 and over is even more old and could be environmentally problematic as it goes older. So the cables to the island and solar plants on roofs and on, and in power plants are the solution to the sufficient electricity for the island's electromobility.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52595	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52596	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Secretary of State, I fully agree that this is the law we need. It's quite clear to everyone, the objections that have an opposition can, of course, be related to, let's say one interesting thing here I found through the Legislative Committee as many as 52 objections to this bill. It is said that the law should be further amended, that certain items are not predetermined at all, some are too high, at least according to the opinion of the Committee on Legislatives, even 52 of the progress contained. Here's the report I believe you saw it, too. We're not against the law, we're for good law. This law is generally not very good, it's not well written, it's not accurate, it's quite futuristic that without further ado, but here's when you mentioned the penalties and delays we recently had here a Law on the provision of services in tourism that we quickly had to push through to not pay the fine. I'm offering you a bet on this law in a few years. We'll argue here again so we can push him quickly because he'll threaten us with punishment. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52597	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52598	That's why there's first reading, so there's a clear consensus, clearly we're always grateful to the Legislative Committee, which, by its expertise, helps to make a complex law with a large number of articles, with a large number of participants in the public debate, you've had the opportunity to look at how many participants there were, and it's logical that there might be some small repairs that we're going to need to do, we'll do it. I am convinced that this is an excellent law, that it is a reform law, that we will not arrive here again because and now we do not arrive, we are in accordance with the directive, all in time we are working and it is clear that our position is that, except that this law must be life and it must be useful, for me it is not futuristic, but it is in the time in which it should be and should have both the courage and the skills to implement it, and we have it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52599	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives will be the national minority on behalf of whom the respected representative Veljko Kajtazi will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52600	... representatives of the ministry, respected colleagues and colleagues. [[Last-on speaker]] I am glad that today I have the opportunity to highlight an important problem, which is not sufficiently addressed by this proposal of the Energy Market Act. These are not only persons living in energy poverty, due to low income, high consumption, due to a large number of households and unemployment, as well as poor energy efficiency related to poor facilities. In addition, there are persons who are present in 2021. they have no access to electricity or at more expensive prices than the market in such a way as to use illegal connections and to pay a flat-rate fee to persons who, personally, are entitled to interest rates. In June of last year, given this problem, and thanks to Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, Minister Ćorić, and HEP administration, the agreement was signed on the financing of the programme to join the energy network of households in Roma settlements within the framework of the government's Operational Programme for the Roma National Minority 2017-2020. The first phase of this project was fully implemented in a way that we joined about 250 households in Roma settlements in the areas of Sisak-Moslavina, Bjelovar-Bilogorska, Koprivnica-križevci, Brodo-Posaviska, Osijek-Baranja, Međimurje and Varazdin County through the project. It is important to stress that they are previously legalised, attested, and are owned by members of the Roma national minority. For connections, users needed to meet legal preconditions such as legalised buildings and payment of accession fees, and the ministry subsequently provided 2 million kunas to implement accession to the energy network of households. The suppression of energy poverty is an important problem that we must act on through green energy transition, and changes in the paradigm at all when we talk about the supply of electricity. As the text of the proposal states, supply is decentralised and decarbonised, and is focused on renewable sources compared to historically vertical integrated monopolies with large centralised nuclear power plants or fossil fuel power plants. The final customers and those who are yet to become those, especially those who can be considered poor in energy terms, should first feel the benefits of this rationalisation and the process of empowering the customers mentioned. The result I mentioned from about 250 new connections is good, but not enough. This is also referred to by the available data from the Office for Human Rights and Rights of the National Minorities of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and these data echoes that 11.9% of Roma households do not have electricity in their homes, which is the same as in 2011, so until the conclusion of the contract that I mention was not significant. It should not be forgotten that the surveys carried out did not take into account whether the connection was legal or illegal, which says that those with electricity are also at risk of being without it and staying. When I talk about Roma settlements, i.e. In isolated settlements, as many as 14.6% of households do not have access to electricity. By the way, the sewerage has no access to as much as 73.3% of the household, and it leads through a water line of 43.3%. This data was published in 2020, so 2/3 of Roma in our country have no access to sewage, almost half water from the water supply, and 14.6% of Roma residents have no electricity. In addition to the legislation that we are discussing today and the changes most focused on harmonising with European directives and green transition, few talk about the poorest ones, and it seems to me that these changes will make the most of those who will be able to invest in advanced technologies, batteries, electricity storage, purchases of the same in cheap tariffs and the like, while the differences in those living in the worst conditions and others will increase further. In this context, we need to find a mechanism to not only talk about green energy transition until we also think about how to benefit from it the most vulnerable. Given that I have conducted a series of talks in HEP, and also in other places such as Končar, I think we should focus more on how to test the latest technologies and models precisely in a way that allows those most vulnerable to be tested in the synergy of companies such as HEP, JLS and the private sector. The key problem I encountered in the implementation of a contract concluded with HEP is property law. The goal he had was to supply legalized facilities in Roma settlements, legal connections to electricity. However, it turns out that this is not possible that a number of legalized objects are not legalized on particles that are 1/1 own owners of legalized objects. Therefore, in the legalisation process carried out through units of local self-government and former law enforcement agency, the process was not related to the settlement of property legal issues. However, it is not in line with the law we are discussing today and the rules on joining the distribution network beyond which HEP can connect no one to electricity legally. That's why we're in a paradoxical situation that we have legal objects, we have property owners, but they don't own the land where the buildings are built. I thank the Ministry of Spatial Planning, Construction and State Property and Minister, Secretary of State, Assistant who hastily designed and issued consent for buildings located on state land, but now the question is what for a number of objects that cannot for various reasons obtain the consent of the owner or co-owner of particles. Especially since the legalisation process has ended, it raises the question of how electricity will be reached in the 21st century by those whose objects are not legalised at all. It is because of these people today that I am talking about their problem that must be heard about, and especially when our entire continent's access to green energy is completely changing and improving the position of consumers. Therefore, even in this law, it is necessary to make the necessary adjustments until the second reading and adoption, and then in the rules and regulations attached to the law. We cannot ignore the problem and at the same time say that the Roma must be educated and accepted by various obligations, and here they are obviously working on a 10-year venture to legalise and regulate settlements, and on the other hand we cannot answer one basic question such as municipal electricity and water infrastructure. What to expect from a community that lives in such conditions and what to do with the current uncontrolled expansion of settlements that will cause this problem to multiply. It is quite clear that now is the time to plan what to do in perspective 7, 10, 20 years because it has already been 20 years since we have been dealing with problems related to the situation of the Roma at national level and we have already sent a leader to Europe on a number of issues. That is why I am announcing that I will keep working on this problem and that I will not give up on solving this problem because we are very close to solving it. It is now time for us to systematically resolve this issue and not to let anyone in our country remain forgotten. I especially expect this because the next year we will certainly catch the momentum that we had before the crown of the crisis and that we will certainly become a member of the economic co-operation and development organisation of the Eurozone and the Schengen area, and therefore it is logical for our countries to act and look like a third world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52601	The next Club of Representatives will be that of the Centre and GLAS, and will be spoken by respected representative Anka Mrak Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52602	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State with his associates, colleagues and colleagues, we have before us a proposal for a law on the electricity market. I have to admit, I'm a little sorry there won't be much of a debate because I personally appreciate that this is an extremely important law. This century is a century in which both Croatia and Europe will worry, as well as the whole world with a problem of climate change and energy problems and infrastructure problems. The law must look ahead. I am one of those, and I don't even keep it a secret where I absolutely think it's better for Croatia to be an EU member, whether or not the helmet is much better seen for good and better than for worse in and be out there outside of that society. So it's a good thing we're in this company. There is another fact that we are often inclined to copy individuals, translate sometimes worse individual EU directives, rewrite them, and then be in trouble, but if we look at the present we have then we will never step forward. So the law must offer certain steps and we must make sure that this law is applied as well. The comparisons are done, so we in Croatia at this point have, say, one case I heard about the other day and it certainly isn't lonely. It's about a space that's being detained and a man's coming to HEP and he says he'd like to count the number that's been checked out to re-establish and that because there was, there was no space intended and there was, there was no electrical energy enabled and after a few days this one tells him, but to your number that you say that there was someone else connected there. So someone's illegally connected, illegally spending someone's electricity or electricity on all of us, it's not someone's because it counted because the system wasn't even charged at all, and it could still have connected to it, so someone's using illegal electrical energy and the assumption is that it's probably the one who was the most opposed to bringing that space into service because it was normal for someone to actually join in and illegally connect. We have this case, and on the other hand, we already have users who have the ability to do digital measurements, which is great. So, you have not only in Zagreb should Zagreb not be an example, a colleague is a gorilla about an object that has at sea, where you actually pay exactly in accordance with the tariff which is and always have that one part to maintain the count, so it was and so it will be. I call it the maintenance of the counter, but for that empty drive that must be one part and you pay and you get the bill and within 15 days pay it and pay exactly what you spent in the last month plus the way the price was formed. So, we have it in Croatia, we have it on one side where people are normal that they have an illegal merger and now, of course, we're all paying for it until someone tells my people I have digital reading everything, I get the bill, I pay for what it is and sleeps peacefully. So if we were to look at everything we had, then we'd be limp cats and there'd be geese in the fog somewhere else. This law has, several times, been said by the Secretary of State, by modern law. He really, once upon a time when there was a law a fellow said, it was like you were still riding in the carriages, and we got a proposal for a spaceship. I don't think there's much difference between reality and this law. This law is one serious step, but let's think a little bit, a little bit further. 2001. The market relations in the electricity sector began to be gradually introduced in the Republic of Croatia, and then the market participants were gradually identified compared to their activities and everything else, 2001. So, what we did in 20 years.? Enough. Not enough, we're unhappy, especially if you're an opposition then you're even more dissatisfied, and when you're ruling no matter what side you try to say it is. So, we're at 20. We're doing something. Remember after the war, I'm talking about a country that wasn't so far away, so my people, we had a part of the electricity supply system of Croatia that went across the territory of other countries and not any countries but with the states and territories with which we were at war. We had to enable the distribution system, we had to enable the transmission system of electricity in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. We fought you, let's try to think about it. And then, I really, of course, find some kind of objection, a lot more when you go and apply it, there's going to be an objection. What is important, it is important for this law to be applicable because if there is a dead letter left on paper, then we will really be some small one at the bottom of the EU and we will not go any further. I made a joke on one of the boards with the secretary of state, so I'm gonna, I mean, make a joke, I said it's good to have a provision. 138, so all those regulations that were already passed in SFRY we won't have them because we didn't have any provision of the law where everything that was passed at the level of the former state was transposed into our legislation, but the rest of us had some rules there from 88th and some, and now here we are, so we're talking about my people. On the one hand, we are talking about EU directives, on the one hand, what the EU is talking about, which is actually good for it to make us better, to be more operational, to adapt, to make the market more open, is ultimately that end-user less paid regardless of whether it makes it go away, is the market pushing it to do so. So on the one hand we have that, we have that wish, on the other hand we still have the rules from SFRY, so we're going to change them there, but that's, that's one technical, technical thing. What I read from this law is the following, which is that certain criteria for integration and what is important are clearly laid down, which is the integration of energy from renewable sources. In 2000, I received an excellent calendar from the Croatian Fire, which one of our famous cartoonists was doing, and it was one of those calendars that I kept for 12 months, behind every 12 months that renewable energy sources could be used for electricity, so that was, at that time, wind power plants, they were solarists, there was waste, there were, of course, tides and axes that weren't applicable to us, they were geothermal waters, that I wasn't picking up now. And now, so it was there in 2000, and it was so conveniently shown. What's the problem, and regardless of what I'm always trying to do, and I don't think that sustainable development or that it should be together with the economy, sometimes it's a good thing that it is. When we talk about wind power plants, when we talk about solars, what's important is to run them to run the industry in the Republic of Croatia to get wind power plants, for solarians, products in the Republic, that's important, that's the whole package because then you're actually going through this to encourage industry. It happened to us when it came to wind power plants, at first they were based on wind power pillars and it was the only work that was offered in the Republic of Croatia, so what someone was doing. The last time they were built they were even installing foundations, so they came mounted and set up. When it started with solarists, then, of course, it was the first solarists to come here to our market from certain countries in Western Europe, then it was actually seen that solare was produced by China, so that's all it was. So that's what you're talking about, when we're talking about all this to be the result of stimulating production because what we were wondering when we had, I think, and you can never, you can't see the law individually as an island, you should always look at the package. This law needs to be looked at in several packages. One package is our plan of resistance and recovery. The second package is a strategy for combating or reducing climate change. The third package is that we want Croatia to be in 2030, or 2050, the kind of production we have. If we say it's important to build an infrastructure for the electric cars, then we need to see behind that which industry we're going to run. The worst part is, we're gonna do it, and then we're gonna import everything and start another industry. I'm gonna stand there somewhere in the name of the club, and then I'm gonna start an individual.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52603	Thank you very much. Here you are, since we are now moving on to an individual debate, so the first one will be re-spoken by the respected representative Anka Mrak Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52604	Thank you very much, Vice President. That's how it happened somehow. I've decided in an individual debate to talk about two topics, so I really think that the laws that are related to green energy, which are related to green development, which are related to everything that can cause this to happen, that it's extremely important to discuss them because we don't need to discuss what's going to happen tomorrow. My niece asked me ten years ago when she was enrolling in the Faculty of Civil Engineering if she was going to enroll in the Faculty of Civil Engineering, of course my sons didn't ask me what they were going to sign up for. I said sign up because when you're done, you're gonna be in waste, you're gonna be in wastewater, you're gonna be in climate change, and you're gonna be doing your whole working life. And that's why it's important that we discuss laws like this today. I want to mention two things here, the first thing we have in the law, and I don't know if it's the secretary of state because I was a little late, and the paper is that we have a time limit since someone gets the power approval in which time they have to finish the facility. It's very important because what we've had is a flaw in a bunch of laws that happens to you that someone goes with the project, look around you, look at a series of those projects that have never been completed and don't finish this project because they're going somewhere further because they've somehow changed everything else. The newspaper in this law that we have, which is that the period within which the building permit is to be started and from which the building permit is to be granted is seven years to obtain a valid permit. I was kind of skeptical of that, but it's good that you set such a deadline and I think that deadline is good. It's going to be a much smaller problem if over time you say we were a little too strict, so we're going to make changes and we're going to move the deadline on this or that, or if you're going to start now, so every word is irrelevant, the deadline is extremely important. And the other thing, what we have already discussed here on several occasions, and what I think we need to discuss is still electromobility, that is the future, and that is the infrastructure that Croatia needs to do. We already have certain regulations that talk about when you work facilities, it's not like I know malls where you have a lot of parking spaces that a certain number of parking spaces must be for car chargers. So it's extremely important that we already have that defined, it's extremely important that it's done, but what we need to think about, think about it all right, we're going to do it all. This energy doesn't come, there's no ideal situation, that energy doesn't come from somewhere, so the topic of electricity generation in one of the strategies that speaks the Decarbonisation Strategy, we're talking about electricity being basic. If our electricity is basic, and we're trying this from renewable energy sources, what we're doing here is hydropotential and hydroenergy, by making small hydropower plants along the way give up slightly to protect cultural, natural heritage, but that would be another topic. So what's important is infrastructure. A country that can have a step forward is a country that has a quality infrastructure and what in our plan of resilience and recovery is a quality infrastructure that we must have and a quality infrastructure for electrics, so that is the future, the future is in cities. But what I want to refer to is this, we have a guess that's why there's something less of us in the assembly than there is, but well that's another topic, I'm not going to open it at all, there's a new municipal, city council, county council, so all of this has to be closely related to public transportation. Public transport that we have in the Republic of Croatia I am talking about public transport in certain cities, but it really needs to be between cities to be electric cars or electric buses, and that should be an incentive. All new mayors, county councils, municipal councils and all other things, so that all that is to make public transport electric for a bunch of reasons. One of the reasons is, of course, climate change and the fact that this CO2 is produced and is indeed in large quantities. And finally, in this last second, I want to say this, this law is a step forward, and how it's going to go, you're going to have control.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52605	Thank you. We have one replica of Honorable Agent Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52606	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues, I must say that I agree with a lot of things you said, and here I have given you the opportunity to finish what you haven't arrived at in your debate. You mentioned electromobility, so I think that's where we're going well. We still don't have that much in our electric cars, and we already have a lot of chargers and we're working on that system to build that network well. It's kind of what if you do too many chargers again, and too few cars, then you keep looking at them empty there no one fills them up. But for the future, of course, they need to be agreed because we are going towards the fact that electricity is crucial to decarbonisation and that is where we fully agree with you. You mentioned production, somehow my conclusion is that this bill is going in that direction to open the door completely and to produce electricity from small solar power plants. And I'm sorry there aren't any friends here but we've been discussing it all along. Now this is a real opportunity to talk about it. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52607	Honorable representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52608	Thank you very much. My colleague Bulj, to only refer to himself, has become mayor in these elections, so I hope that through the executive power, he will be able to realize some of the things he was stressing there. So when you're a parliamentary representative and you're in a legislative position to say so by the authorities then you can open up a series of topics, in the executive government you can see the result relatively quickly or you can't see the result. I always think, regardless, it's always a dispute whether it's good for the mayors to sit and the mayors in the assembly or not, I think it's good because I can make that kind of balas but it's not the subject of this law. Really electromobility is the future. What we really need to take care of over time, we need to take care of this infrastructure. This law is ambitious, this law is really designed for a serious future, I just hope it will be implemented. It's the worst thing if he's not available, if he's not. We'll get the changes and the additions and we'll discuss it again. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52609	The next individual debate will be respected representatives of Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52610	Good day to everyone in a significantly less time I'll try to sum up some points. So the proposal for a Law on the Power Market on the one hand declares that one still has no electricity, and on the other hand that some are driving by electric cars. We have that in many laws, and in this let's say the most radically shown. On the one hand, of course, we also welcome some solutions such as setting up, easier setting up solar plants, storage of energy, encouraging and establishing energy communities of citizens. But on the other hand, what needs to be criticised is a strong re-regulation and privatisation carried out through this law. It has already been said, therefore, that there is no reason and it is not clear why the obligation to change the legal form of the CAPS in such a way as to make it mandatory to become a company that, as such as a form of a commercial society, can be substantially easier to change owners. Trade unions warn that the CAPS is a legal person of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia, that electricity is a key element of public security and that this is about privatising the transmission operator. On the other hand, the law is completely limited and fascinated, I would say, with this framework of the competition where we now have to tell Croatia if the electricity users are going to join the game. We've heard what we're actually talking about here. So I'm going to add only to this information that we got from 14.6% of the Roma population that has no electricity and data that 6.6% of the people in Croatia can't afford adequate heating in the cold, coldest months, that millions of people in Croatia are in danger of poverty, the market game that is set as the limit of this proposal is suspicious, if we consider I'm going to give you one piece of information that illustrates it in a picturesque way. Macedonia is on the so-called the famous Doingbusiness scale at the very top, 50% of the Macedonian population cannot provide themselves with heating. So the competition has its limits and the question arises in which way to justify this optimism if it is literally said here that these laws will allow citizens to enter the competition and that citizens are fully willing to take responsibility for the energy transition by making maximum use of new technologies with the aim of reducing the amount of their accounts. People are willing to invest in a game. What people are willing to invest in that game? How many people will have the opportunity to set up their own tanning rooms? Of course, it's commendable that solarists are being set up, but that's not really the solution to our energy poverty that we're in right now. Therefore, in order to solve the real problem and to get into this energy transition first and foremost, it cannot be left at the individual level of this initiative, and the second must protect the state from deregulation and privatisation and the third is extremely important in fact to look elsewhere for the possibility of managing this energy instability and self-sufficiency, which means in economic development. And there is, of course, solar production, which others have also reminded is extremely important and the possibility of coming out of energy poverty but in a way that makes it impossible for many EU funds and said that these industrial policies are being limited. And these industrial policies are based on state interventionism and protectionism, which is absolutely both in this Parliament and in the policies of the ruling ones not allowed as a political and economic strategy. We enter a competition with the strongest as an amateur boxer enters with a professional boxer and expect the same results or to be equally good. We had solar production in Novigrad, the solar plant in Novigrad failed, why, because it wasn't competitive. There cannot be a competitor to Chinese production unless there is a state protectionism and interventionism that would allow us not to put our energy policy on an individual level in this transition and what the citizens say are ready and able to carry out that transition, but to put it at national level. but with smart economic policies. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52611	We have one replica of the esteemed representative of Keatazi.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52612	Thank you. Dear colleagues pointed out that we will be dealing with the connection to electric cars, and while some settlements do not have electricity, you touched me especially when you mentioned members of the Roma community. I fully agree with you because there is a solution to how electricity is produced because the problem we have in Roma settlements is the same problem on the islands. Only unlike Roma settlements that are much, much larger than.../incomprehensible/... settlements are even more than 2000. Now imagine a Roma village without such a certain infrastructure, and thanks to another 2012 colleague Mrak-Taritash, who was the Minister of Construction and Spatial Planning, we started in the process of legalization and precisely the one county that we started to do so, and now in the end we need to collect at least 10 papers and yet it is not enough to connect electricity because certain particles because at these times we didn't think about thinking about particles, but about the documentation that you need to prepare, so 10 documents and you still can't connect.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52613	Thank you very much. Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52614	Well, that's what I mean by that two worlds I've been talking about. What will be set up as a framework for such deregulations and privatisations is only going as an even greater danger, even greater energy poverty for those who cannot, to quote this document, assume responsibility for energy transition. We're not talking about energy transition at all, we're talking about electricity in certain settlements. Therefore, we will have, so in certain settlements people who are either illegally connected to the connection or have no electricity, and here in Zagreb we will develop chargers for electric cars. We don't know exactly who will develop them because the company that won in NPOO a billion and a half kuna doesn't even have a registered website, so hopefully here's where the website will register first, and then we'll get chargers for electric cars, for our guests and tourists who have electric cars, but here's people won't have electricity. I think the exact opposite should go both this document and strategy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52615	Thank you. The next debate will be Mira Totgergelija, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52616	Thank you, Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I volunteered for this individual debate because I also have some little suggestions that I simply didn't get through the debate on behalf of the club to say. So let's just say that I think that maybe we should consider that persons who possess a power building permit and a location permit for an electrical power generation facility that these legal persons have the right to apply for a retraining procedure to provide auxiliary services with the possibility of pre-contracting in providing these auxiliary services, so as well as those who do so under another procedure. Then in Art. 12. Maybe you should think about a slightly different formulation of this section 5, because on the first wave, I'm a little off, that definition led me in the wrong maybe direction than the whole article. 12, so maybe think about it a little bit. As for the CAPS and that the CAPS becomes d.d., I am of the opinion that both the HOPS and HEP ODS need to be independent, independently managed according to what they are doing, therefore not ownership but manageable that they can make their own decisions because only in such a way as independent operators can actually provide equal and equal services to anyone who appears on the power scene and in this direction I think it is a good idea that the HOPS is going towards d.d. There was a little discussion that maybe, I don't know, then maybe we should go to that simple D.O.O. I don't see what d.d. would do. It was different from d.o.o., and my opinion is that even other than HOPS, it should be done with HEP ODS. And as I have already commented with the Secretary of State about, in the case of renewables from the water potential, it may not be necessary to concession the use of water before the energy approval is obtained. I have reported here and because this bill introduces new energy activities that we have not had at all in our legislation, so it's aggregated, it's an energy community of citizens, it's an operator of a closed distribution system, so now it's next to HEP ODS can form a small distribution system operator and it's a storage of energy. It is precisely these new energy activities that are important and this law is both modern and innovative because they drastically enable the introduction of renewable energy sources or make it easier for all those who want to build it to be able to exchange energy within themselves, that the manufacturer and the buyer without any more can exchange that energy within these communities, therefore there is a number of possibilities that will naturally still need to be well regulated through the regulations, but we have the possibility to install into a system of large amounts of small solar power plants, as well as other power plants that use renewable fuels. On the other hand, electromobility is one of the key topics for decarbonising what you're going to do in traffic, at this point everything is focused on the power drive, we have nothing else. So, it's a simple trend that is necessary and I was just talking about that we don't have to do it overnight and that we don't need to make the final number of chargers that we're going to need in 10 years, and there aren't enough vehicles yet, but that trend is necessary and that we need to develop it, absolutely yes, we just need to coordinate what we have from the vehicle compared to what we already have in the field. And I can't agree on this, either, that according to the poorest citizens, this law is not directed. First, I don't think that, let's say that I come from the Bjelovar-Bilogian County and I think that electricity is available to all those who need it today, and it needs everyone, so maybe we have violence where there's no road, where we still have a caldrum, where we have problems with, I don't know, water, sewerage, but actually electricity is the most accessible of all the necessary things that our citizens need right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52617	Thank you. We have multiple replicas, the first respected representative of Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52618	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague, you mentioned just electromobilities related to chargers, a network of chargers, I can agree with you that we currently work for tourists, we don't work for ourselves because, as far as electric vehicles are concerned, we're at about 0.040. We have an ambitious plan, a Green Plan where we only commit in public transport, I mean about 14 or 17% of electric vehicles. I think we need to take advantage of just the green public procurement, here, and I'm going to get a hold of myself, and my colleague Mrak-Taritash has made a good point, and I believe you're going to appeal to that too, which is to include the units of local and regional self-government. We now have a large series of new leaders, from the day of today, every new vehicle of the municipality, the city, the county or the public, some institutions or companies, let it be neither hybrid nor ordinary, let it be electric. With that, we'll make a quality move for the beginning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52619	Dear Representative Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52620	Well, I agree with you, and I think this recommendation to local self-government leaders, to buy new vehicles and buy electric vehicles, I think it's good. How much will they manage immediately at the beginning to provide funds for it because still those vehicles are a little too expensive compared to the other and in fact, the moment that price of these electric vehicles is acceptable, I think people will all of our citizens, all of them will buy actual electric vehicles, who will prefer to drive with, on diesel or on gasoline, if that price is acceptable and similar to this price that is in diesel and petrol vehicles.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52621	The next replica of the respected representative Simicevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52622	I'd like to thank the vice president of HS, my esteemed colleague. Here, I want to thank the editors of this Law who have made an effort to write this, and since this is the law in the first reading, the law should be clear, living, applicable, to solve all the dilemmas that possibly exist, and I'm surprised why people instead of making amendments, say remarks, when the time comes to make amendments, then they don't give amendments to the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52623	Dear Representative Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52624	Well, you recognized that well. In my opinion, the law for first reading is very good. First, we should commend the courage to begin with this law at all. This is one now, even a drastic change compared to all the previous solutions we've had. I mean, introducing four new activities practically into the law, into the energy sector, so I remember what we look like in 2001 when we started talking about the electricity market at all. Well, everyone was afraid of what it was going to be, we're going to fall apart, we're going to lose power, they've already tried it in California, so they didn't have any idea how many months of electricity, etc. So, that fear was broken long ago, the legislator came boldly into this and I think it's a good direction to make through 2 readings, through remarks, suggestions, and in the end the amendments make a very good law that will be applicable in real life.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52625	The next replica of the respected MP, Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52626	Here, you asked what d.o.o. was different from d.d. So, because a stock company is a form of a company that can change property more easily, so that's the problem, that's what unions say. Private owners do not necessarily have the same interests that the Croatian state has, which is therefore electrical and energy self-sufficiency at all. The protection of these interests is therefore at stake by such a deregulation. In addition, the CAPS is a legal person of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia. So that's what's always stressed. And the second thing about electromobility, this is where things get mixed up. So it's not the goal that every citizen individually has his own electric car, but the goal is, therefore, the electrification of public transport, that's two different things, and here, when in the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, these billions and a half kunas are given for electric taxis, it's forgotten that it's a city in which one meter of tramway is not built. And at the same time we [[Thank you, thank you very much.]] We're thinking of building a charger for an electric vehicle. [[Intruder: Honored Representative Totgergeli.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52627	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52628	Well, I'm not an economic expert, but I don't see a problem that if some company that's 100% owned by the state and the state declares that it's of public interest and if the state doesn't want to sell any part of it, then that the HopS could go to anyone or anyone could buy it anyway, if the state doesn't want to sell it. On the other hand, I feel like d.d. compared to d.o.o. becomes more independent in governance. The debate here, we always have that, on the one hand and with HERA when we've discussed it, we want to give it to be independent in decision-making, like I don't know, some other activities with us, they need to be independent of the ministries, compared to the Parliament, versus someone else, that you can't put pressure on them, and then when you give it to them, then there's a problem again, and why you're giving it to them now. So I think both HEP ODS and HopS need to run that network on their own, and the owner will stay in 100% state ownership all the time. [[Thank you. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52629	Dear Representative Pavić has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52630	Your Honor, I don't think it's questionable whether we need a law like this. I think that there should also be a major shift in relation to what we have so far and that it will allow both consumers and producers to regulate it all together and to define it differently. However, you have shown this law that it is all expensive and wonderful, but it is not so. We'll say in which segment I was a little distracted. You said this, after the law was introduced, flowers bloom, butterflies fly, producers drink champagne and what they do, exchange electricity. In order for manufacturers to exchange electricity, they need to store as before, first and foremost. When they have the power of each other, there's no point in sharing it. Therefore, it is necessary to store that electricity, and the costs of storage of electricity are very high and for small producers it will be a very big problem and we need to see how to regulate it in the law and how to help them actually achieve it and that these provisions of the law are actually implemented.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52631	Dear Representative Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52632	Comrade Pavić, I don't know if we were in the same room, I didn't exactly mention champagne and everything, but never mind, you made a joke. I think the law is very well imagined and necessary in order to get to what we want and in this direction we need ic, and when you talk about it, the manufacturer does not mean that some manufacturer and some buyer can at the same time produce and that they cannot exchange with each other. They can trade without a warehouse, and of course they need warehouses. But there come those who do aggregates, so they can pick up a lot of manufacturers, lots of customers, lots of warehouses not some space and coordinate energy between them, coordinate the power between them and even if there's a surplus sale, if there's a lack of shopping on another market and that's what's necessary, which we haven't had so far. And I think in that direction the law is very well designed, and of course they'll need the rules and [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52633	Honorable representative of Kajtazi.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52634	Thank you. Dear colleague. To some extent, I agree with your exposure, especially when you mentioned that you should because, most importantly today, a person could survive means electricity, water and sewerage. I disagree with you in that part of the other part because there are no Roma settlements. You've seen the latest report in 2020 that I just read to you, and I told you it's in Roma settlements. We must look for something else, i.e. in such a way as to facilitate the electricity connection process. I told you earlier that it wasn't enough even eight to ten documents to join them. And among other things, you mentioned building permits and everything else, it's not even enough that we even have a solution to the housing performance, and yet you can't carry out a power connection through any such document because it's a process in the plotting process. And pitching can be 10 years and 20 years and 100 years and never been solved. Problem, but we're still running out of connection. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52635	Thank you. Dear Representative Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52636	Dear fellow Kajtazi. I fully agree with you that every citizen in the Republic of Croatia must have electricity. My debate went in the direction that electricity is a form that is safely accessible to the largest number of citizens in the Republic of Croatia, that we have much more problems with sewage, with water and also with the road. We still have a lot of settlements where people drive around in the alley and when the car passes, they must have closed windows all day long so that the dust doesn't enter their house. But the power went there too, so the network exists there. So, I was going to say that actually that electricity we did a long time ago and with the nets we got almost to every house. Now, if there's a few more houses where it wasn't made, we need to do everything we can to get them some electricity, and I think we're on the same track. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52637	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Zeljko Pavić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52638	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I'm sorry, dear colleague Rade, that I didn't hear your replica completely, but I heard something was about the amendments, right? So I think we're going to give the amendments and we're going to be actively involved in law-making, so if it's about those of us who are a little bit of a critic. Here's another need for me to say a few words and in my speech, since I didn't have time to finish everything on behalf of the club. What I was trying to get up to was the exposure Mr. Anka Mrak Taritash had to do with the time limits for the completion of works on buildings that would produce electricity. We heard from the Committee on Economy one remark, one remark unfortunately I don't know what the gentleman's name is who said that this deadline is too long, given that technology is developing very quickly today and the question of what we're going to have after three years, since that technology that we've actually predicted is actually going to be implemented in a system in three years is actually going to be obsolete. However, since we know how our system works right now, I think this is optimistic and that it is a good thing that we force both local self-government and state administration to work differently, to work more agile, better and faster, and to force them to adopt acts as quickly as possible and to make those acts available to performers who will then turn it into some kind of investment that will be useful to the Republic of Croatia. There are other things that got me a little confused because when we get back to, like, five, six, ten years ago, there's been a lot of talk about mini power plants. In this law, I didn't run into mini power plants, I think it would be a good idea to talk about it, and that part is regulated, since we see that now that we have a final example, I think it's an example from Bosnia if I'm not wrong, where they wanted to make one power plant, so people are gathered and they don't let us work on that word, because that word is wonderful and beautiful, and they don't want that word to be destroyed. So I think that this should be regulated by law or by this law or by some other to enable the construction of these mini hydroelectric power plants, because we have a tremendous amount of water that can be used for this purpose, and for example, which we can find on the Internet, such as HE Crljenac near Topusko or HE, which is near Zagreb, it is actually the capacities that are needed for public lighting that are fully satisfied. So we have potential, we have capacity, we have opportunities, so let's try to do it and then we'll do it. The next question that I had was a little disputed I tried to ask him and a colleague who had just had a debate, it's a storage of electricity. In fact, I don't know, since I'm not an energy expert who's related to energy when it's stored, is that when I sell that energy to the end consumer and I sell it to a legal person who can store that energy? We know what we could find on the Internet, what we could find out from our energy experts, what are the possibilities of storing this electricity from... Power plant, compressed air in mines, hydrogen, etc. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's all relatively expensive and small producers certainly can't participate in it, so the question is how much will they actually make if they sell it to those who can really store it and how much will it cost them, how much will they actually make from their actual electricity production? I don't know if you have the answer. If you have the answer, I'd be happy if you could answer that question. And what I still wanted to say, but I don't have time anymore, and I'm going to get connected to it later, it's about data, personal data and data management, which is extremely good to mention in law, given that with personal data today, we've had a lot of bad governance and we've had a lot of problems, so we've been passing some new laws, so we've had the Agency of Personal Data, so we've been doing GDPR... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52639	Thank you very much. We've got multiple replicas again, a respected representative of the Dark-Taritash first.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52640	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. A colleague, therefore, on the Committee on Economy, one of the outside board members said that these deadlines may be too long because technologies are changing quickly. And the fact is that technologies worth today are not worth a year or two, but there is one thing that is difficult to change in Croatia, which is our administration. Imagine when it comes to the earthquake that hit the City of Zagreb, the first solution to destroying the family home, it has been 14 months since the earthquake to bring about a solution for the destruction of a family house. That family house is about to collapse for 30, half an hour to an hour. Therefore, these deadlines set out in the law were clearly considered by the administration. But what the state can help, what the state can really do to speed up in terms of administration, is that possible, it can be done. We have everything, but why it takes a long time, a very interesting answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52641	Thank you, thank you. Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52642	Yeah, I think we actually have almost the same attitude because I think it's through this law and through these deadlines that are actually set in a way and put a little bit of pressure on that administration that's slow and inefficient, and you're, because you know that administration very well and you know what the problems were in that administration, how hard it is to run, you rightly also talked to the Committee on Economy and you've turned your attention that we'll probably have problems with that. However, if new services are introduced, if that administration is given different powers, if different business processes are put in place, if a different management system is set up for that administration, I think we can come up with the results we need and in this section in order to really reach those deadlines that are set here. I hope that they will not arrive to obtain construction permits and that the projects will be completed because the administration has been delayed and that the documents should have been returned several times to completion.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52643	The next replicas of the respected representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52644	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, you mentioned production capacities, I watched a little bit about solar energy and I see that there are some companies in Croatia, especially the area of Varazdin, Ludbreg and Ivanec which deal with the production of solar panels, which by distribution of devices etc., there is one big Solvis in Varazdin. However, they actually use 98% of their production capacity to export. There's also something in Solin that there's a company that's been working on the production of these smart benches and baskets. So my question is, will this law encourage more companies to open up that will actually contribute to increasing the production of these solar panels because there, here you can see, there are both incentives for companies and households, but as I said before and in the replica, there is still too little. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52645	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52646	Thank you very much. This is a very good question for a broader debate given that the intensity and this law is actually being produced as much energy as possible by small producers and that, in fact, this solar energy is being used as much as possible. I think Mr. Secretary also said at one point that the aim of this law is also to include small producers in the production of green energy through the exploitation of that solar energy. And I believe that if this is really the goal and if this is done in some way, in a good way, to represent and if they manage to give real incentives to both the wider population and companies that would be joined later in the energy community of citizens, I think there is a possibility that the production of these solar panels will actually increase in Croatia. Of course, it would be in our interest to round up production, meaning that we also have panels, that later these panels are being used and that this energy is being used or even sold abroad, if possible, as suppliers from abroad will come to us. Considering... [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52647	The next replica of the respected representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52648	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Pavić, I will rely on my colleague, Maric, for solar power plants, but also for solar panels. You mentioned in your discussion the problem of good energy management and the problem of storage and the same energy. I have to, and you mentioned hydro power plants, I'm going to be going right up to the solar solar power plants. Here last year we opened one large, largest solar power plant in the island of Vis, which is in the process of energy-sustainable islands, and I think it's 7 in the plan of the Republic of Croatia where we can in some way praise HEP and their investment, which is also the largest power plant for 1600 households that will supply Vis and leave it energy independent, has one of the largest batteries of 1.5 kilowatts. So I think HEP can do it and we definitely need to support exactly that kind of investment and just give a swing and let's be this one, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52649	Thank you. Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52650	That here through the exposure that we had here by our colleagues at one point tried to push through this and the the thesis that HEP invested funds in solar power plants was not good. On the contrary, I think we should invest in green energy sources if it can be hydropower plants if there is a possibility. It's on the board if I'm not wrong before 2 committees there's something about nuclear power plants, but I'm not personally into it because the risks are pretty high, but those people who deal with energy know better so that I'd skip that part of the story, but definitely investing in solar power plants, wind power plants and hydropower plants if it's as much possible from our state firm and to help if it's still possible to co-finance small producers that would be ideal. It means that they are the same ones who will encourage small producers to put panels on their roofs and produce energy in their own arrangement.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52651	Thank you. The next is a replica of the esteemed representative of Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52652	Thank you, Vice President. My dear colleague, I think that you and I, too, think well of the law, but the more you do, the more I praise what someone here has already said, but we need this law. I've reported more because of this energy storage, and I think we need to send more people a message here, especially here. We've already passed a law that when the customers build a solar power plant on their home, if they've got an extra transfer to the network, if they're short on the net, and at the end of the month, they're going to have to make an account of who they gave to who they gave more and only what they pulled out of the net they have to pay for it. So, at this point in time, we may not have explained it enough to people, and very few people have still taken advantage of that possibility and installed solar mini power plants on their facilities. With these legal solutions, it goes even wider, and it goes even further that I can share energy with each other in a circle.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52653	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52654	So my replica I gave you on your exposure wasn't about this part of the energy exchange with our HEP, it was about your change in energy storage, and the storage of energy has some rules and regulations, and I'm saying that Mr. Secretary, who really is this deep in energy, and I think he can help us a little bit about helping us explain what opportunities we have for small producers. So the problems are small producers who don't have the money to build a warehouse of this and store that energy, so I asked how much the income difference is if we sell energy to someone for storage or if we sell it to the final buyer. That's probably quite a difference, so we'd better hear what these differences are. And in general, what are the possibilities of small, small producers of electricity to participate later in the work.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52655	Thank you very much. I will now ask my colleague Pavic to stay here because, on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, he will speak finally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52656	I just wanted to get in touch with a few things that are here that I have 20 minutes as Mr. Milatić then could probably end up all in one drink in one wave, but this given that the topic is very broad and interesting and the general public I think it's good to mention another part that is related to data and data management that will be run by companies that will actually supply our customers with electricity, given that we have had a lot of problems with that personal data in the Republic and that those who had the databases actually didn't behave in an adequate way. They did not comply with the law on the protection of personal data, did not report these collections to the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data, and later these data appeared everywhere and it was not good. In fact, you know for yourself that these data are still collected by many legal persons who give you credit cards to collect some points and bonuses and discounts later, I don't know now that I don't mention certain stores but almost all shops have some kind of credit card, so when you give your personal data there, then they play with that personal data, and then there's some telecoms, etc., etc. If these regulations or articles of the law listed in this law are to be respected, I think that this data should be a problem and that our users of these services will be fully protected, that the data will not be sold, that there should be no exchange with other holders of the database, so that I don't think there should be any major problems. What confuses me a little is how it is meant to define and how it is meant to prescribe the interoperability of devices that will be used for advanced measurement, given that we need to set some standard, which we will take and whether this standard will be passed by some regulation, regulation, provision, or by some arrangement between producers I did not understand, there is no law. Next, what's good, and on the other hand we're a little worried about it's a unique contact point. If this unique contact point is going to be like the contact points of our teleoperators then we're all going to be chasing our heads and we're not going to have a great success, we're not going to have what we need, our users are not going to get the data they need to get. Unfortunately, they won't even get the favor they need because you know how long it takes us to solve our problem with a teleoper. God forbid we need to relocate the connection from one teleoper to another, believe me, it's a lot of 24 hours, sometimes it takes 24 days, and some times two months. It all depends on how much they want to complicate your life and how much they're texting each other, and you're in some vacuum, air space, and you just can't act on it, and you can't possibly influence it. It is mentioned in the law and user centres, I hope that these user centres will actually be the way FINA has, for example, where our older people who do not know and cannot be used by electronic services can come to the counter and then do their job in direct contact with a reference or official who works on that counter, given that if they do not have the knowledge they need then usually use grandchildren who do not have nerves and write that request in half and then eventually get an answer that does not really have anything to do with what they need at that time. As far as we're concerned as the club, we feel that if we work on that law in that part that we've been criticizing here, because we said that the problems, if we do it in the second reading and with a few amendments to say nice things like that, I think we can vote for that law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52657	Thank you very much. And now, on behalf of the promoter, the Honorable Secretary of State Ivo Milatic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52658	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear MPs and MPs, I thank you for the debate on this law and cannot hide the satisfaction that more or less all MPs and MPs have been actively involved and I see that everyone cares that this legislative proposal is as good as possible. What I'm obliged to say is, one who doesn't realize today that electricity is actually the energy of the future, that everything we're talking about is energy transition, and the green plan, and future fuels like water and everything is ultimately based on electricity. There is no renewable hydrogen or pure green hydrogen without electricity, which is going to be renewable, because then it doesn't make sense if it's fossil energy then we have like renewable fuel, and we don't have a renewable source as it's fueled. What is important to mention is that this Law has really introduced a big newspaper and we are once again trying to emphasize here to Croatian citizens. What with each of our laws on energy here every time was a theme of solars give citizens the opportunity to produce electricity, sell, make money. Very often a gentleman from Karakasica is mentioned that he cannot produce it. Here, now is the chance to finally have that part worked out. We have now had it developed only in terms of self-consumption production and this measure has resulted from 2018 to today with almost 60 megawatts of solar plants installed through that measure and through that institute. Partly encouraged by the state, and another part encouraged by the users themselves who calculated their own physiology and put such drives. Now the introduction of the aggregate opens up a completely different story. It means a little bit to explain it to the public, not just for you in the Parliament. The aggregater is the one who will take it, with you clearly conclude the contract. You have a supplier, you have a distribution system and you have an aggregater. He will conclude with you a contract and he will be the one to negotiate with you how and in what way he will use your power plant, because the supply itself is not worth the weekends. If you live in a cottage only I know 15 days to 30 days a year and set up a panel, the supply alone doesn't make sense there. But the aggregates there make sense. So you have a production facility, even if you agree with that generator and you invest it or you invest more in the battery system that will then store that renewable energy in your house and the aggregater will use it when it is most favourable, then we create not only electricity production and earn electricity production, but we do it to make the Croatian citizen from his roof produce electricity, put it in his warehouse in a small battery system. And the aggregater takes that power when that current is the best for sale, and also the citizen actually gets a higher price of electricity because at the moment when there's only a solar without a battery, then it has to sell that current, so if it has a price at that point. And when there's both, it's a whole different story. So we're talking, this law is talking about virtual power plants. So, there will be companies that will organize at the state level actually virtual power plants that will have purchased space and capacity, production plants that will charge your battery station with electricity from the network at midnight when the electricity is cheaper, and by day empty it and in that combination of markets where we can't be afraid you can actually get to the price of your electricity at the end of the house can come to zero, that you simply don't have the cost and that you simply have that plant all that you spend and earn. And maybe somebody else pays you something when he asks you not to include some expensive, not expensive, heavy consumers in the house and you say you can organize your own life, so it's a measurement, which is why the communication part is very important. So, as for the fear that this law will increase energy poverty. It's not a topic at all. However, this law is the key to reducing energy poverty. Why? Because this Law must ultimately produce smart measurement, the knowledge of operators, all suppliers and distribution system operators at the moment of the consumption of data on all those who are poor, who cannot really pay their bills and all European directives and all Member States on all the councils on which we participate as Ministry or on behalf of the State do not say that energy poverty is being solved from the budget of companies participating in the production and distribution, storage and all in the electricity market, but is being resolved by the budget of either local, regional or state. So you can't burden companies regardless of what it is state-owned like HEP d.d. It is not the burden of companies to address energy poverty, but there should be a mechanism that exists and we are paying those few Junees and the Ministry of Labour and Social Welfare has this fund and that is it. So this law goes in the direction that all these data are being kept and that all of this is being monitored and clearly being done. What Mr. Totgergeli said to Mr. Keatazi absolutely that's it. So it's in the interest of the state to get to everyone. If not directly by wire, and then by some independent energy that will produce electricity for that particular household. As far as energy approvals are concerned, once again, let's point out something that is very important, which is that with this law here in this esteemed home, we have asked me several times whether we know how many energy plants are going to be built in the coming years. I said we know or we'll know for sure, this law is a prerequisite for that. So energy approvals will be issued on time. She won't be free. She'll have to be paid. It will not be paid in the budget, but will be paid in CROTE and will be used again to finance renewable energy. She'll have a deadline. That means they'll force the investor to do it. If he doesn't, he'll lose the money he invested, and he'll have to free the place, or that location later on for someone else to come. We're talking about state land and land owned by local and regional self-government. When it comes to private land clearly on private land, energy approval will also be paid, but you don't have an instrument to force someone to do something real if he doesn't. But in the part where the state, and more than 70, 80% of all energy approvals target the state and state area, then it's logical that we have that management. And since we put our strategic goals all in 2030, and this is 2021, and energy approvals... The 60-day deadline must be for all those who have reported to us so that we do not give God to all investors now to challenge ourselves as a state of some kind of problem. [[You don't understand.]] Clearly that they now have the right to report in one regime,... final, and then new investors in the second. [[You don't understand.]] And the new ones who are in transition and final they have to finish the facility in 5 years that's important to know. So if they all solve their status at the latest by the end of June next year, today in a year, all these projects must be completed in 5 years. Otherwise they lose approval and they lose money and they don't have it, they have to clear that space. What else is going on here? It happens that we will then know about how much these capacities will really be, and parallelly in the National Recovery Plan, we have been planning serious funds how and how we are going to build this network that will accept it. So the National Recovery Plan is like a highway, and the resorts and gas stations where the fuel of the cars going down the highway are actually these energy facilities that have to be built and the state has to provide both in terms of administrative... There I would agree that this law will simply force our administration in all our bodies to be more efficient and more effective in terms of deadlines. [[You don't understand.]] Simple deadlines, we have laid down that a prerequisite for the adoption of energy approval is a spatial plan. So we're not 5 years old when we're talking about 5 years, 5 years is enough time, because it's a prerequisite for a spatial plan, it's a prerequisite for the HopS to issue a temporary solution that there's a possible connection and it's a prerequisite for nature and the environment to say that it's not some obstacle that something can be done in that place. Because if they do, one of them says we can't use that location. It's about that. As far as Mr. Pavić was talking about the contact point here, clearly the contact point must be the one. We are here set up for CROATIES to provide all data for future investors and for citizens to be known in one place and to update what everyone needs to do. That point will not be a consultative point that it will do so to them. This point is just a point that will give them complete information what they have to do and it's very important to know. As for the data and how they will be exchanged, there is, therefore, independence of the distribution and transmission system that only has data on everyone, and therefore there are activities that we as a state are carrying out with competent state authorities and we include, or we have included, all these organisations in the serious protection of cyber security. Because we are aware that such companies can not be in that part that not only the data of citizens who clearly cannot share the same but don't let God at all put the whole system at risk so that he doesn't know for sure in that part. So, the entire energy-important entities in Croatia are by the state in the area where they are introduced with certain programmes of certain protection, which are simply necessary today. And as for storage, I told you about where the benefit is and where the advantage is. As far as electromobilities and chargers are concerned, clearly we have to work on it, because there is no life without it. And what the distinguished representative Peovic said was that we must have state and others... It's just an impossible mission. [[You don't understand.]] We met with such a system economically about 30 and a few years ago. But clearly, the state must do everything possible to ensure that the legal regulatory framework and the security present in the regulation is such that the market is not what the remethylative factor will be, but that the market functions itself. And as for the CAPS and the HopS d.d. I'm stressing again. There's just no problem with that HOPS d.o.o. becomes HOPS d.d. Perhaps the problem is that, for example, supervisory committees cannot often change in the CAPS d.d., as they change in the CAPS d.o.o. It seems to me that maybe it's one of the bigger motives why maybe on some sides they keep saying that this HOPS d.o.o. Must not be converted to HOPS d.d. I can't possibly understand that's the problem. If the directive said it had to, and personally we have the same opinion as Mr. Representative on behalf of the HDZ Club said that why would tomorrow be the problem and HEP d.o.o. That's what it's gonna be. D.d. In a commercial sense, i.e. in commercial law, the highest degree and, in my view, the highest degree of organisation of a company and that would be from me. I'm thanking you. This law will come to a second reading clearly after the summer break. Since we will carefully send out everything you have said, if there are any further comments, we will install all of this by the government's authority. We will, of course, install everything the Legislative Committee has said and expect us to be 15 by now. In 09. have in this House delivered the Final Bill before the Government of the Republic of Croatia, because it is very important that this Law enters into force at the latest 1. 10th of this current year.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52659	We have a few replicas. He is the first respected representative of Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52660	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, I agree, I am first looking at this Law through a whole package of laws and strategies coming from your Ministry and congratulating on the reflections and the vision of the strategic where we are going and where we see the Republic of Croatia. But I also agree with you that we have put in a very ambitious plan and that the deadlines are very short. Here, let's just take the electric car chargers, the chargers will be easy to do that's the least of the problems. We need vehicles. To make the vehicles available as a colleague pointed out, they are too expensive. Incentives are a great thing. But in order to achieve such a short time, an ambitious 10, 15 plan, 20% of electric vehicles in our public transport or on the road, we have to take a drastic step, and this drastic step is, for example, a drastic step. to start cutting off our next 5 years of VAT on the purchase of electric vehicles. It's the only way to reach that ambitious plan. I don't know what the ministry's position is, but I wish it were.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52661	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52662	As far as our objectives are concerned, our goal is so far being determined by the Commission 14% of renewable energy sources in transport. We're now somewhere at 7% at the end of this period. So through all possible types of biofuels, any advanced, super advanced, it's up to 8 to 9%. So 5% must be electrical energy. The electrical energy in those 5%s will be largely through the chargers, and then clearly through the use of the vehicles that will be. VAT release for electric vehicles, this is a topic for the Ministry of Finance. But I think it's smarter to do something else than take off the VAT. It's better to give incentives, and if VAT was paid because then a chain reaction starts on everyone, then everyone would ask for a VAT release for all of you. So the logic of the Ministry of Finance is that you better give a boost to what's important, and the VAT is paid by everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52663	The next replica of the esteemed MP, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52664	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, one of the newspapers in the law is the energy community of citizens. So that's something we have new in the law, something that's allowed, so it's a new institute. That institute is famous. He's famous in Europe. It's also known in some other countries, so I'm interested in the following. When you thought about it and when you decided to put it into law did you consult any other experiences and did you see what would be most applicable to really doing so? Because when it comes to real estate and when someone asks you about the price of real estate, they all say location, location, location. I think this law will be extremely important information, information, information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52665	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52666	Thank you. We handled the directives clearly. But we did not just manage the directives, but rather the experiences of other Member States. Let's say we're on the same threshold as our Slovenian neighbors on the trail of regulation of the whole story, and this is primarily what we think we're bonding with the first trafostation to simply see how it will work and we think that this clearly HERA will play its part to detail all the rules that need to be. It is our opinion that this part will slowly be established. We already have some northern Adriatic in the Kvarner part of the island already established energy communities so that we will be very active in communicating with people and that is actually putting solars on the roof, just not ordinary family houses but multi-bedroom buildings, which is.../incomprehensible/... additional interest in the solarization of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52667	Thank you. The Republic also has a respected representative, Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52668	Thank you very much, Vice President. I'm glad you mentioned this issue of energy poverty in your final address. So, here today, there may not have been a lot of words about one document, so the European Green Plan, which, I could say, is actually the basis between the other and this bill's proposal, and I don't think it's worth mentioning in that particular European Green Plan, which, among other things, mentions that the risk of energy poverty has to be removed, precisely what you were talking about in the replica of a colleague who put it out, where, among other things, they mention and various effective funding programs that would help and actually mitigate these, let's call it such an energy impact on the citizens, or eliminate this fear that may come from a certain part of the opposition, and here, if you can say a little more about that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52669	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52670	I think we prevent energy poverty twice as much. First, that, firstly, we need to ensure that energy is available, that everyone has a connection and one who is not in a position to pay for it, means to ensure how and how to assist these citizens that they actually get it and that someone in their name pays it because obviously they will not be able to do it, and then later, clearly and clearly see how and in what way that energy they spend, that in case they can't pay it again, they will not be able to pay. So this means one multiple action, and it comes down to the fact that in terms of technical terms, to ensure the preconditions, and in terms of financial through certain support in these installations themselves, plus the support in the payment itself, we simply need to work it out, and I think it's possible, there are systems now, but they still have to be further improved.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52671	Thank you very much. I'd like to conclude a debate on this point. We'll vote on it when the conditions are met, and now we'll take a break for the ventilation, and we'll see you again in 12 and 10 minutes. I'm sorry, 13 and 10 minutes. It's 12.55 hours. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 13:11 A.M.]] We'll get back to work. Here come the colleagues, - The report on the operation of the state and management of the supply supply for 2019, with financial indicators; will be our next point. The holder is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. 6 Strategic Stocks Act. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Economy. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State Ivo Milatić, please. I'm sorry, it's just that Representative Selak Rasdic, I think he'll ask for a break, if I understand correctly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52674	We're not two anymore, there's even four of us. So it's hard to talk about this report because this report is one key report that shows us what our resistance to the crisis is. However, we are in a paradoxical situation that is happening again in the Parliament, which is that in 2021 we are discussing the 2019 Report, and we are failing to do so for a year. I don't know where the delay came from. When we talk about stockpiles, if we remember the history of supply supplies, then we find problems, malversions, USKOK's investigations, and different conjectures. Before this crisis, where more than ever revealed how insufficient our stock supplies were and did not serve their purpose, so we depended on humanitarian aid in Petrinja in order to get the number of necessary tents and containers instead of having it stored for the crisis as announced, in goods supplies, we were doing the usual public procurements that were suspended in this year under the exception of the crisis and we were never told when they would return. And why am I looking for a break on behalf of the Bridge Club? I've given myself a hard time and gone through public procurement for what's in our stock in the 2019 report and now watch out for these unusual coincidences. Meat cans only 1 bidder, pasta only one bidder, cheese only one bidder. I'm looking for a break because here I'm asking a fundamental question that is necessary before we even begin to discuss this report, and is this business with the state a public or secret plea? Is it public procurement or fictitious public procurement On which you have [[Thank you very much.]] Only one bidder. [[Intruder: Of course I'll give you...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52675	... give a break. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure So I'll ask the Honorable Secretary of State Ivo Milatić to come to the pay phone, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52676	Thank you, Vice President. Business with state, respected parliamentary representatives and MPs. The State supply operations in 2019 took place in accordance with the provisions of the Strategic Stocks Act, the rules applicable to the budget and the budgetary users and the decisions and conclusions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The law states that strategic stockpiles are created to provide basic supplies at a time of war or a direct threat to the independence and unity of the survival of the Republic of Croatia and in the case of major natural disasters and technical and technological and environmental disasters. Stock supplies can also be used to provide urgent assistance to other countries in case of disasters, humanitarian aid and in case of participation of the Republic of Croatia forces in peace and humanitarian operations abroad. Stock stocks cannot be used to remove disturbances and instability on the market. In 2019, total revenue of 116 724 000 kuna, expenditure of 143 213 000 kuna was made and the revenue deficit of 26 479 000 kuna was achieved, which was covered by the surplus revenue of the previous years of 32 477 000 kuna and made available an surplus of revenue transferred in 2002 of 5 997 000. This surplus revenue was used in 2020, mostly for the purchase and completion of the balance sheet of the strategic commodity stocks and for the current and additional investments in its own warehouses. In 2019, the purchase of goods and the complete balance of strategic stocks amounted to HRK 106 524 000 was made. 30 141 000 kunas of food products and 76 383 000 kunas of non-food products have been purchased. Of the food products there are 5,000 tonnes of wheat, 5,000 tonnes of corn, 90 tonnes of rice, 100 tonnes of flour, 20 tonnes of pasta and powdered eggs, 30 tons of June meat in live, 45 tonnes of cheese, 50 tonnes of meat cans, 10 tonnes of canned vegetables, 40 tonnes of jam and 50,000 litres of oil. Of the non-food products, 15 aggregates were purchased, 32 multi-purpose carcisteries, 5 high capacity mobile pumps, 5,000 meters of mobile dams, 6,000 metres of boxing barrier for flood defense, 12,000 pieces of sleeping bags, 6 tents, 1,500 liters and 7,500 kilograms of recovery funds and 260 pieces of body bags. The total value of the stock, means goods and real estate and equipment, all together on 31.12.2019 was 642 million 212 thousand kuna. In order to increase preparedness for the fire season as well as the potential risk of floods, new contracts on storage, maintenance and use of fire-fighting equipment for the population and aggregates and water pumps have been concluded. The contracts are concluded with local self-government units, voluntary fire companies and public fire departments. Contracts on the use of multi-purpose water auto-cisteries and sandbag-filled machines have been extended to all users who respect the obligations undertaken by contracts. Part of the multi-purpose drinking water autocisteries was temporarily relocated to the coasts, islands and interior of Dalmatia for better protection during the fire season. On 30 September 2019, the temporary use of auto-cistern was completed. and all the tanks are returned to the contract users. Two autocisters from strategic stockpiles are also intervened on the island of Rab because of the extraordinary gas leak of the propan-butan, while filling the tanks in one hotel. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 37 extraordinary controls have been carried out to comply with the contractual obligations of the storage of strategic commodity stocks and 158 controls when carrying out the annual list of goods and facilities. The trade aid to the Caritas of the Crossing diocese as coordinator or organizer of all Caritas in the area of the Republic of Croatia for the needs of the poorest families through the delivery of flour, oil, fish and meat cans, jam, cheese, pasta, rice and eggs powder, soap and detergents for dishes worth a total of 9 million kuna and part before Easter, and part of the goods before Christmas. As a result of the elemental disasters that have hit us in cooperation with the State Protection and Rescue Authority, strategic stockpiles are increasingly being used and their continued follow-up is important in order to enable more efficient use and availability of supply supplies.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52677	Thank you very much. We have several replicas, the first respected representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52678	And if I were to translate this to the Croatian public, of course you didn't comment on my break because why would you come out of what's written on your paper? So we got reports from 17 pages where we can't find out much, at least the layman, about what our stock market situation is like. But the key question remains, the business with the state for those who are eligible always turns out to be good, and when it comes to stock supplies, it's a particularly profitable job. For those of us who like to explore a little deeper we enter some documents like individual public procurement we can find out that for at least three foods that are very common where you can find a huge offer in all possible chains when it comes to public procurement for the state we have only one bidder Zdenko, Gavrilović, Ragusa. Do you really have stockpiles and public procurement or are they just fictitious to make Someone's had a good time. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52679	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52680	Your Honor, I thank you for your question. We have, all those stock supplies you mentioned were purchased in a public tender. The problem that maybe not all of those centres you think you should report on are the following, which we in the public tender except for the purchase of these goods, we're looking for storage and refurbishment of these goods. How do you think the Republic of Croatia is going to get, say, 50 tons of food supplies, and then who's going to take care of the expiry date? Maybe we won't be looking at some warehouse every week if the deadline's up? So this warehouse of ours has to commit that he has to take care of the expiry date, so he has to keep it up to date. In this regard, the fact that you think it is reserved at the end of the stock market is the most commonly reported by serious Croatian food producers. That's it. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52681	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative of Begonja.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52682	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honor, Secretary of State. In front of us is the State and Management Report for 2019 with accompanying financial indicators, but in 2019 we didn't even have a covid, we didn't even have earthquakes, so I'm interested in asking you for 2020 if you have any information about this we ate in 2019. 114 million kuna spent on the purchase of strategic stock supplies. How much are we in that 2020, and especially what was current by the opposition, and that is how many mobile units are owned by the Agency for Stock Stocks located in the Banovina area? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52683	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52684	Thank you. We acquired this much in 2019, clearly always counting on God not to if he should and unfortunately should. As for 2020, stockpiles are on all lines assigned to them by the government of the Republic of Croatia, I think about 446 million kunas of goods have been purchased. As for the total number of containers now located in the Banovina area. He's somewhere around 2 grand 300 and something, and a thousand and 32 containers are owned by the Department of Stocks. So that's what we got in this short time to respond to all these challenges. We were the ones who were always ready. That idea that we weren't ready to deliver food right away isn't that simple, it went first from the Red Cross so then we filled out the whole... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52685	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Pulak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52686	Dear Sir, I would like to ask you to comment on the fact that in these past years when Mr. Juzbasic was managed by a member of the HDZ recently, now the independent mayor of Županje so his company where he had previously worked was Slavonia Županja, in which he was employed until 2016, so the principalship had made millions of deals with the company. In the past years, some 6.4 million kunas have been paid. In total, nearly 7.4 million kunas have been earned by HDZ authorities since 2016. So, the director first worked at that company, became the Director of Robing Stocks and continued to work with his former company. Do you see any problem or conflict of interest? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52687	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52688	First, this company is a serious warehouse. Once, even the principalship was co-owner of the company. This company stored our goods and increased the number of warehouses at the moment when another respectable Croatian company came literally before bankruptcy and we had to evacuate the goods for safety and therefore increased the number of tonnes in the company. And it is not true that he made contracts with the company, Juzbasic. I put them together as the headmaster of the day. He later came as director in the principalship, and those contracts for the relocation of another company not to mention the companies here now, because they were ultimately irrelevant now I had to make myself as a director. Because we simply have to keep our goods in companies that are capable of it. And now who loves whom more, who worked somewhere. They all have the same price, and they all keep the same criteria there.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52689	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52690	Dear Mr. Secretary of State, we are also discussing half the 20th strategic stock reserves for 19. It is interesting to see that we have in our contribution even if our Committee on Economy discussed this report on 14 October last year. And almost what they listed here, we know what happened after that October, which is an earthquake in Banovini or you. What I'm interested in, and you haven't told us anything about it. The report says that control is conducted several times a year around supplies, which is why I'm telling you, I'm going to talk about it in free speech. You yourself mentioned the number of tents or bags, so it was very unusual that three days after the earthquake there was no such thing, so we asked for help and received from Slovenia and Greece. That's exactly what you're looking for. I wonder how much when it says "control is carried out several times a year" the last check was carried out from 2 to 31. 12. 19. Please, when was the next time you spent?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52691	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52692	At 12 are required to control everyone because it's an annual inventory being done. So 12 is mandatory control. And over the year, individual random controls are to simply determine that there is no disturbance. 12 months each year go by everyone. And so last year and this one will go all the way up to now. As far as the tents are concerned, as much as civilian protection has asked us for tents, we have given them so much. We're not the ones who are going to come and offer tents in the streets now. There are competent bodies, the civil headquarters of the city of Zagreb, already who it was. As much as they asked, we gave, and there's no topic at all. If someone's saying we didn't give what they asked for, it's wrong. We have tents we have. Maybe they were looking for tents that were more expensive, better, more equipped. We don't have those tents in stock. It's actually a very small, very small number. That's where you might agree. We don't have tents like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52693	Thank you very much. Thank you. [[Milatić:... but we have these others.]] Does the Committee’s rapporteur want to take the floor? No, I don't. Then I open the debate, and the first on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Mosta will speak to the respected representative Marija Selak Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52694	Okay. Let's try to explain slowly what's going on here. What are stock supplies? We remember all the trouble of this time when the crisis started and when we waited in line for different food stores to be supplied in case it's no longer possible to get some kind of quarantine or get sick ourselves, let's be in isolation so that we can somehow survive. So in panic we bought more than we needed. Eh, at home level it was like that, and at country level, it's the same thing for our supposed state. The state has its own wetlands that no one opens at least that way, and if opened, it has shown all this history of supply and that we can reach out at a time of crisis and that for a month without anyone's outside help we are self-sufficient or able to survive. What's the problem? Since it is one business done with a country that is big because it is a stock for the whole nation and is safe because the state is an employer who will not declare bankruptcy tomorrow, it is certainly in the interest of many to come to that contract, at least that is how common sense makes sense. However, if you look at what is really happening with the goods supply, this is the question that I have asked, then you see that what you think of as a human, for example that there are a lot of cheese producers, there are many manufacturers of meat cans and there are, for example, a lot of pasta producers and only the delusions that you testify to a mirage when you enter a supermarket because when it comes to the directorship and obtaining a supply of goods there is only one producer in all of Croatia who even appears for this lucrative job and who is able to get it. I'll agree, many probably don't have all the conditions that are also prescribed, but they're within these public procurements and I can't just satisfy them. But no one can convince me that there is only one cheese producer in Croatia, that there is only one pasta producer in Croatia and only one canner of meat that is able to do the job for the needs of our stock. If that's true, then why are we even playing public procurement, what do we need with all these expensive processes and what do we need? We can skip this quasi transparent procedure and go towards a monopoly that apparently agreed to Croatia and immediately get a product from the only one in Croatia. So, what exactly is this about? Namely, I was investigating a document called "A Change and Completion of the 2019 Purchase Plan", so I decided to look at these specific public procurements, and here I found that only the company "Ragusa" appeared for the pasta 20,000 kg. Furthermore, for meat cans, 50,000 kg of meat cans appeared only “Gavrilović”, a job of 2 million 560 thousand kuna. And finally, the only thing that came forward for cheese was the "Walk Milk Products" for a job of one million and 600 thousand kuna. This curiosity of mine hasn't been since yesterday. I asked the question when we were talking about the Civil Protection Staff, this question is now more important than ever about what I called Gauda's underpants, and it was that a kilo of cheese for the Civil Protection Staff cost as much as 80 kuna. Now, all of us who buy in a retail that's more expensive know that gaude has 30, 40, 50 kuna, 80 kuna, far above even those gourmets of deep pockets between us. As an explanation of why this is so the ministry has lax fenced itself by saying that the first word about cheese in the ballots that are obviously necessary for these needs is not going to enter into these specific needs and requests at the level of cheese in Celphan, but also that it has obtained from the same bidder in 2019, so it cannot be slow because we are currently in a situation where the public procurement is suspended, so it can be obtained as it pleases and as it pleases, there is no procedure through which these companies we currently obtain under the exception of the crisis in the government's decision of 17 March 2020, which we do not know when it will finally be suspended, everything goes beyond public procurement due to the alleged urgent procedure, due to our security interests etc. That's how she got that gauda I used to talk about. However, when I went to investigate what really happened in 2019, Because it is the same bidder that served as an argument that it was a correct offer, it turns out that only Zdenka made the offer. One owner may not make spring, but to me, it was unusual that there was only one company that could offer cheese at the state level for such a lucrative business. Well, I guess there's some kind of competition or at least that's what we're looking for. But when I combed some other groceries like this, it turns out that for many supplies there is only one company that appears to be public procurement. So, the fundamental question that remains here, when we talk about a report that is brief, insufficient and therefore not transparent enough, which is late because in 2019. We are discussing the 2019 report in 2021, and more than ever, we need a report for 2020 that we know what the situation is now and that we can respond to the crisis in which we are now, and maybe tomorrow we will be the issue, all of these supplies that we have obtained, how we got them, who are these bidders and whether these public procurements are real or fictitious? The issue of stockpiles isn't since yesterday. We've had different cases, some here we've already asked as a question of certain HDZs who have also been directly or indirectly part of this supply business. We had a case in '96 when there was a parliamentary commission to investigate what was going on with the reselling of grains in supply supplies, and we had 2000 when it was talked about some things that weren't so necessary, but they were in stock like wine, we had Sanader who wanted to send aid to the virana, so he found out there was nothing in the supply supply, we had SCOTT 2011. who went after it to investigate what was going on with the stock. We have as many as 108 companies, and that's what we were talking about in 2008. of which we could never charge for what the merchandise had given them. Stock stores are Pandora's box of problems and malfeasance. And knowing all this history is really a valid question and it is necessary to ask this question for this speaker whether we have real public procurement or someone, such as not a rare case in Croatia, is eligible? The second question I will address, as far as this report is concerned, at least briefly given the remaining time, is the issue of our self-sufficiency and resilience to the crisis. On the basis of what criteria is it obtained? We see here in 2019 that we donated some containers to people who stayed in them because of natural disasters, rinks or age, and did we get new ones in time, we saw that we were missing the number of containers. And what is crucial, when we read this report in the end, it says something that we will all agree on stockpiles are really of crucial importance, stock supplies make us independent of humanitarian aid, and how it is dependent on humanitarian aid, so I guess we in Croatia know about our troubled and tragic recent history. However, at the end of this report, it is said that there is a need to refresh, strengthen warehouses and fill those stocks. That was 2019. Has anything changed in view of the demand for this report in 2020 and if it is possible that again it has proved that unlike the public procurements that the hole without the bottom of the stock is something that has a very shallow bottom or something in which, very often, at the moment of crisis, we do not find what we need, I will not say anything, but certainly not enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52695	Thank you. We have one alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure. Dear Representative Begonja, what is the injured Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52696	Thank you, Vice President, but a colleague. This Regulation shall enter [[Intruder: You can go colleagues.]] The Rules of Procedure, namely in its presentation, did not stick to the agenda. She spoke quite casually in a way that demeans the department of supply supplies here, she spoke negatively about their work, and on the other hand, I know that I'm going to get a warning about the cheese leaves, so does she think that in Banovina, during the earthquake, they have salamis that they can cut the cheese. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52697	You realized yourself that it was a replica, not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and I'm giving you a warning. And I pray from now on that we don't abuse the institution's breach of the Rules of Procedure, there are replicas, there's an individual speech, the final speech can be spoken as much as possible, so please don't do that. My colleagues, Selak Rasudiæ, you continue to insist on hurting the Rules of Procedure, which is why the Rules of Procedure has been injured.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52698	Article 238, false interpretation and demeaning of parliamentary representatives. When we talk about Banovina, I have to remind you, given the goods supply, that Hungary has helped her more in what was crisis and crucially necessary than Croatia, given the state of supply, and I can only get a responsible access to the business because except that I've combed everything in these stock stores I've also combed the public supplies that concern these supplies in this report. So it's flat-out away from that.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52699	He won't get the medal, but you'll get a warning from me because you know it's not right and I'm asking you again, let's not, let's not, we've been working normally for almost two hours now, let's not start with some behavior that's not appropriate to this home. Now, on behalf of the promoter, a respected representative, Ivo Milatić, will speak. Here you go. Your Honor, Secretary of State, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52700	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I am obliged to react to clarify some things existed from the origin of the Republic of Croatia, inherited by the law of the stockpiles which were also strategic and marketable, and then there were many situations that were not exactly on the radar of anyone, and here with you Mrs. Parliamentarians can agree. I came to the principalship in 2012 and I had the opportunity to see there the final stage of this process in terms of court epilogue. What Racan's government did in 2002 was to make a good law that only tied itself up today is still in force, which is that these are strategic goods supplies. So the market components were thrown out of stock and all those stories about Agrokor, about thieving, this, that was all before and after that were just court epilogues and we solved something, we charged something, something we didn't, and that's what our fathers did, and we eat sour grapes. There can't be this government or this administration, and neither can I, personally, as a longtime manager of supply supplies, say anything but that, and after that, we slowly built these supplies and brought into one situation that they are respectable today. I'm an example. ended his term in stockpiles with the unconditional finding of the State Audit. So I've been there for five and a half years, and I've received an unconditional report from the State Audit, which is not me, but my employees who worked there. So it's not Pandora's box where there's nothing, there's exactly what it's got and how much it is, the container was 306 at the end of 2020. We were hit by Covid, not at the beginning of 2020, but when Covid was, and we actually had 306 containers on 2020, of which perhaps there were dozens of them in the warehouses because everything was on Covid's hospitals. And there's been this earthquake accident, clearly we're on our way to getting everything we can. No one asks what all these food products that came there are sending goods when this headquarters was ordered we were sending. And we now have 62,000 tons of wheat, 28,000 tons of corn, 1,000 tons of juniper in live meat, after we fed this whole time. Stocks serve as an average of 30 days of something that can be spent in the Republic of Croatia. We didn't fill in our stock supplies until the end because we're always short of money. It's not just this government, it's all governments do the same just have as much money as they have, give as much as they can, one year more, one year less, but we keep filling them, we don't fall, we just climb lightly despite what we've got Gunja, here's the memory of Bauk he was the minister then who was the effort financially and Gunja and refugees. You remember the refugees, all the gas was from the stockpiles, all the stockpiles, it was all from the stockpiles, and we survived all of it, and thank God we'll survive this, too, but I don't let it be said it's bad. That's not a bad thing. And now there's a review of the stock and some nice audit there is doing its job and she's going to give a report every time and I'm sure there might be some kind of failure everywhere, but this is kind of something that's wrong. And how are we supposed to get me the goods? By direct contract, we are clearly working on a public tender and this suspension is based on art. In 42nd, it was only on paper in the government's decision, it was used those few weeks when it was the worst stop-pani, and after that it was no longer used for procurement but went with the limited public procurement process but as it is called to be because we will not get European funds from the Solidarity Fund at the use of art. In 42, there are no European funds, so we are not crazy to use an article. 42. ... it was used at the time it took that month. Well, you can't make that fast supply right now. Afterwards, everything went to that accelerated process, the negotiation process means it went according to the Public Procurement Act because the process is recognised by the EU that it could pay us back the money through the Solidarity Fund and that's the whole story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52701	We have multiple replicas, the first respected representative Selak Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52702	It's very interesting what you said, so there's a government decision on March 17th, you say we used something here at the beginning. The Mosta Club concluded that the decision was suspended and that everything obtained would be returned to the public procurement process. What you're saying is either false or what the government is saying is false because in January this year the government responded to our conclusion and said it would not suspend its decision on March 17th. So either you or you don't respect the government's decision, which is still in force, or you act arbitrarily on it sometimes, and sometimes you don't. And we come to what is crucial as I point out, the EU requires public procurement and it is mine as a parliamentary representative to ask the question about how it is possible for only one bidder to arrive at the simplest foods, and it is up to you to give me a superfluous answer. This does not mean that everything is wrong with the stock, but does not mean that it does not need to be asked the right questions that require an answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52703	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52704	Thank you. Absolutely, no one suspends the government's decision, I'm just saying the government's decision exists that we can use the article. 42nd and all that in the government's decision is written. And I'm telling you to get that art. 42nd very limited benefit, and you're saying that only he was used was nothing else used, and I'm saying the opposite, and now we can clearly analyze the procedure by procedure and we'll get to how much of what was used and that's the whole story. And as far as public procurement is concerned, I'm telling you, we can't go beyond the Public Procurement Act by any direct contract under normal conditions to renovate and obtain our goods rather than public procurement. The law on public procurement of all European directives has said that public procurement is open procedure, legal, legitimate and in every respect indisputable if one bidder with a valid offer has appeared. And what I'm supposed to do now is go around begging some of these chains that aren't even interested in what they're going to sell, not what they're going to keep in storage.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52705	Thank you very much. The next replica of the respected representative of Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52706	Your Honor, Secretary of State. It is clear that this is an intriguing report and that all MPs are looking forward to transparency, and the Croatian public is often familiar with huge criminal affairs and scandals, and I am glad that you have made it as much orderly as you have, however, and now the questions remain open in this report, I do not know that there are 250 tonnes of sugar missing, 115 tons of milk powder, it is a pity that the duties are inconsistencies with the inventory of about 5 million. What's that state of mind, is that what you've made out, where is it now? Did you manage to solve the economics or was the state's attorney's office informed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52707	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52708	Thank you. This is about a company not to mention now a name that has fallen into problems due to the known problem of Agrokor who has simply failed to return it. We are here in accordance with the legal procedure, the administrative procedure, the criminal procedure, and each other goes through these procedures, one piece is back, we expect to return through financial burden. In case that doesn't happen then there's nothing else for us but we have to use the law's organs because we simply act in accordance with our procedure and according to the law. It's clear to you in the law if you read that it's a criminal act to alienate, not only is it alienation in itself but it's an additional criminal act and there's simply this one controversial example, we'd like it not to be him, but that's where we are.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52709	The next replica of the respected representatives of Grba Bujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52710	The Honorable President. Dear Secretary of State. I understand that the stock reserves operate under the Strategic Stocks Act and that there is actually a defined complete procedure. Since I personally participated in the response to the covida-19 pandemic, I am very well aware of how important it is to shorten the minimum possible procedure at the time when there is no protective equipment for all employees in Croatia, but not only for healthcare professionals but also for all others. So here's because we've come out of the subject, and it's allowed to talk about others, I'm asking you nicely to take on behalf of my own, but also of all health workers, socialists, police and all those involved in this, thank the employees of the stock that at that time bear the greatest burden in our country, here's what I can say from this place. Well, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52711	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52712	Thank you. I'm sorry. I thank you, too, and I think of it because I am aware of how much work is done here. It's enough for a single donated container, let alone a purchased container in that cold weather that didn't go there without our employees and our warehouses who were there the day of the night until all this was done. So we're aware that he can always do better. But the fact is that stock stores will always be there and we'll have to work on an even bigger promotion. We're also preparing a new law. We are also preparing this part that is interesting to you, which is this Sanitary that has so far not been required to elaborate in detail in the law. We prepare through this law to make regulations and certain sublaws so that there is no dilemma as to how and how we operate, and we functioned according to the procedures of our officers who have been present for decades.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52713	Thank you very much. I ask you all to go back to 2019 anyway, because that's the point. Dear Representative Spajic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52714	Thank you, Vice President. I'm interested in the Secretary of State if you can briefly explain how you treat companies when they go bankrupt and you've paid for the goods, let's say I'll say the VIR Virovitica Sugar Factory. You pay for the stuff. Pay them for the storage. The company goes bankrupt, the accounts are blocked. How do you get to this stuff and how do you justify that money in fact, what you've deposited there? Because you have, say, you announce yourself when you come to a company, you don't know that they're coming to look at goods and these are now companies that produce a lot of things on a daily basis while they're producing and it's a nonstop fluctuation of goods. Not a kilo of sugar numbered to say I don't know it's for stock reserves. How do you control it? In fact, how do you even know the true state of something you paid in advance? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52715	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52716	Thanks for asking. It's good to clarify how we operate. No, we know the real condition that we paid for and that real state has to be at the warehouse. If any of that is not in the warehouse, then it must be regulated by the contract, and the contract says that at some point in the year you can use a certain amount. Why? So you can replace it with new goods, and it's known at what time of year you have to have all the volume at the warehouse. It's 12 months. You have to have all the volume at the warehouse. And in case we need the goods, then that warehouse signed a contract that within a little bit of an emergency day he had to and replace that part that he had the right to use for... So we always have in every part that we have that plus in the event of bankruptcy we have a fiducial right that our goods are excluded from the bankruptcy it's ours. [[You don't understand.]] It doesn't go into bankruptcy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52717	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Okrosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52718	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, today we are discussing the report and the state of supply for 2019 with financial indicators, so here I am curious how you comment on this report compared to previous years.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52719	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52720	Well, it's a report that I would like more or less if such a report were always in peacetime conditions or conditions when we didn't have a disaster. So somewhere around a hundredth and a few million kunas, we get stock supplies, that means that at such a pace, we would quickly fill our balance sheet to the end. Only very often because of financial situations it is not possible to obtain such funds, but it is usually less. But here's how much we get every time we try to get what we need at that exact moment and keep the warehouses light. Out of the seven warehouses we had, I found four in devasted condition. Go see now, these are warehouses as if warehouses from the German state with minimum funds invested and all containers when they return from Banovina will be able to be placed in warehouses and around our warehouses.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52721	Thank you. The next club of MPs will be the SDSS on behalf of which the respected representative Anja Shimpraga will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52722	Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor, the Secretary of State, the Honorable MPs and the MPs. In front of us, or today, we are discussing the State and Management Report for 2019, I repeat, for 2019, where we could not imagine the difficulties that will befall us in 2020 and 2021 when the Directorate for Stocks will take on a very important role in the resolution of the consequences of the earthquake and eventually deliver the most containers and homes in Bani. I believe we will be more interested in this assembly when we discuss the 2020 Report. The activity of State stockpiles or administrations is not always so media-observable, but it is unequivocal that the Administration and, if I may say so, to peacetimes is working and preparing for possible troublesome situations. Thus, the activity of recent years has been enhanced in the event of elementary disasters, such as floods in Gunja, rinks in Sisak-Moslavina County and others. Simply referred to as the State Stock Stock Stock Account is run by the Department of Stocks, which operates within the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development and performs the tasks of a certain Strategic Stocks Act. Strategic stockpiles are important from the aspect of the social, social and humanitarian roles of every country that comes to terms in extraordinary situations. The continued creation of strategic stockpiles contributes to the more efficient operation of the protection and rescue and sustainability system of the economy under difficult conditions. Therefore, the creation, maintenance and territorial distribution of strategic commodity supplies is of strategic importance to us. Permanently available stocks ensure smooth and timely intervention and the elimination of consequences and exclude dependence on the market, the manufacturing sector, imports and international aid. Subject Report we are discussing is systematic, it is easy to follow and gives a clear comparison of the situation at the end of 2018 and the situation at the end of 2019. Thus, the report shows that the total value of goods, goods stock on the last day of 2019 amounted to around 538 million kuna, which is 5% more than in 2018, when the value of real estate and equipment is added to the total value of around 643 million kuna, which is 4% more than in 2018. The most valuable share of stock stocks at the end of 2019, as we heard several times, was as many as 18% in wheat, the multi-purpose tanks accounted for 15%, the euro diesel fuel 12% and the rest in smaller percentages. After the acquisition of strategic goods in 2019 total value of HRK 106 million was made at the end of 2019, it had in state stocks 96.7 million kunas of wheat, 80.6 million kunas of multi-purpose auto-cistern, 32.2 million dry meals and meat cans and tents, 10.7 million kunas of fish cans and 5.4 million kunas of housing containers. I am concerned by the fact that the processing of the inventory papers at the very end of 2019, by comparing the real state of the list, the list with the state of the stock accounting identified an inventory deficit of €5.3 million. Namely, it was a sugar deficiency of 260 tonnes, powdered milk of 115 tonnes. It is true that it is a deficit identified on 31.12.2107 and 2018, and part of the goods was calmed and returned during 2019 and the company is in the pre-fashion settlement process and is being resolved through a pre-departure settlement, but we still need to find a mechanism to prevent such problems in the future. On the last day of 2019, there are claims greater than one million kuna for 13 companies and total claims on 31 December 2019 amount to 40 more than nearly 43 million kuna. They are so smaller by as much as 30% compared to the 12th month 2018. It is about claims most of the time in the period until 2004, for which all the legal actions were taken. They were both sued or reported in a bankruptcy proceedings and were brought to the attention of the responsible persons. However, this reduction can be interpreted as being twofold as there was a reduction in the claim due to the application of the amending and supplementing Regulation on budgetary accounting and the accounting plan and the implementation of the correction of the value of the claim. In order to fully fulfil the basic role for which they are intended, a continuous and targeted stocking is needed to allow for more efficient use and more availability of strategic stocks. In addition, the further creation of supply supplies in an indirect way would contribute to the economic activity of companies through the purchase of goods and the settlement of storage costs and the preservation of the quality of supply. Therefore, the emphasis that it is also said in further business should primarily be placed on the insurance of goods supply and on further modernisation of its own space. Finally, it should be taken into account that the work of the Directorate is not towed by tails or that there are no deficiencies and that controls are stricter and more systematic. However, it is undeniable that the work of this body is very important, there is an expression in difficult times and the Club of Representatives of the SDSS will support this report for 2019. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52723	The next Club of Representatives will be the green-left bloc, and Rada Boric will speak to a respected representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52724	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague, we seem to be less interested in this topic today than usual, and the subject is extremely important. Here we were talking about what it means to have a stock reserve to at least survive those 30 days that count to be needed during a quarantine or some other kind of accident. What I would like to say is that if we refer only to Article 2. The Strategic Stocks Act, which is said to stand therein, creates supplies to meet the basic needs of supplying the population in cases of major natural disasters. So when we got this report we saw in the report what would be done, what would be the supplies that we should be satisfied and which we should have and we've heard the difficulties here, are of course financial or nature that we need here we've heard that we've little and modernized the warehouses and that's exactly the last sentence in the report. So, funding supplies and modernisation and improving their storage. But what we haven't seen, and we have seen here in one of the replicas that the problem may have been what and when with the supplies we have or which we may be able to get at the moment when we need synergy in cases of accidents, which is then with those supplies and where are those supplies. In fact, we have seen if you look at page 11 of the report you have on the page a review of so-called food products here, but also non-food products, and when you look at whether it is sufficient to choose what we have at some times of accident, and especially this pandemic, is there something we need at such times. Here it's very interesting, we're talking here and about the earthquake, so they're not, they're not in the principal's office responsible or they're responsible because someone didn't ask for something, but if there were 12,000 sleeping bags worth nearly 5 million kuna, and the tents were pieces 6, they're probably some extraordinary tents because they stand a million kuna. So, if that wasn't the moment, and I have here a quote that Mr. Civil Protection Director Damir Trutt was at critical times when the earthquake happened to us only 18 containers came in. The report also says that part of the container, not only containers but also water supply vehicles, is that after and for many years of use such as containers are left to local administrations and self-government, cities, and even individuals who have used it and understand, are older than 7-8.g. My question, how do we rebuild and what do we do if we leave the containers that were used on other occasions, if we've already given the containers before the earthquake, and then it's an excuse that our containers were used around the covid situation. It is impossible for us to become 18, and in doing so, I was saying, there was only the other day, tents were removed, huge tents in the courtyard of the Fine Academy in Zagreb that had not served anything for a year, and someone decided that they would be there because perhaps because of the pandemic they would not know the students were feeding there or this is how some very unusual answer I got. But at a time when a crisis like Bania occurred, why these tents weren't in Banja, why these containers weren't in Banja, or even those who were older and intended maybe to go somewhere else. What I'm really interested in, who's responsible for how if the law specifically states that supplies have to be renewed, I've asked here when control is being done and I got it if, in law it writes several times, I got the answer to that real inventory, we all know it works out at the end of the year. But while we're waiting for the end of the year, so now we've won for '19, now we're half of '21, is some kind of control working to see what we're missing to fill in and fill in the stock. It may happen that some company goes bankrupt, so we have due sugar, wheat, some wheat, and the whole silos are gone, and to this day we don't know what happened, but it's a question today when we don't know what might happen to us tomorrow, God didn't give us something else the day after tomorrow, which, who set out what priorities they are, because then these public procurements can happen, where there are exceptions when a covid happens that maybe masks or gloves can be obtained without public procurement. Now can we include what's important for moments like this, can we count on other accidents, and make time for public procurement? It's not a question, we heard the answer here, so there's one purchase, so, well, then that stuff we got here, we got it, it's standing in the warehouse, the other one won't answer because it won't sell. The answer wasn't good, so I sold, I don't care if you keep me in the basement or you share. There's no answer because he wants to sell his goods, so he sold his goods, the only question is who's the final buyer, whether it's supplies or whether it's an individual. What really worries and what, and it showed us an earthquake, look at a little bit of how we don't see those other and third levels and we don't have time to explore all, some things literally don't get understood when we're just reading financial, financial items. So what really came to us when the law says that they have to be renewed, when they're being refurbished, what are the criteria, and how they're being chosen, when we'll know that we can count on each time before the containers come to us from Istria, the camphouses and containers to get us out of, that we'll have firemen and ambulances and volunteers and that we'll have bags of sleep from Greece, and we've got 12,000 bags, so does it say, do we? My question is do we have them? I'm not saying we need an investigative committee and I'm going to volunteer and volunteer to do some inventory in places because it's a secret where we keep the supplies. How is it possible that there wasn't one sleeping bag of those 12,000 bags or those bags gone, because I was 31st in the May Fields and people begged me for sleeping bags or was a bad organization. So either it was, I understand that the principalship would say they weren't looking for us, then someone very badly sought out and did an insight from Civil Protection as needed on the ground. We can't boast in the delivery reports I don't know 2,000 whole-day meals, so was it commendable to us that we did it just like we did at the beginning? So one more thing, the economy ministry believes that a timely renewal is that it was December 22nd, '20. They launched the acquisition of additional containers for needs, the needs of the coronary virus crisis, and that 41 containers from that continent, the contingent, would still write to them without "n", so I read, too, at the Ministry of Economy, they admitted that they did not actually know that in the article when we asked, in Art. The 17th Law states that they missed a timely renewal, so the decision was later made even with some recognition that it was not done. What are we going to do to stick to the letters of the renewal law, about restoring the stock reserves in a way that we can prevent, to prevent the situation as it really was in Bania?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52725	The next Club of Representatives will be the Homeland Movement on behalf of the respected representative Daniel Spajic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52726	Thank you, Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. In the middle of 2021, to put on the agenda of this House debate on the State of Management of the Republic of Croatia's goods stocks for 2019 would be to disrespect the Parliament even in circumstances where 2020 would be a normal year. Again, this haughtiness and disrespect of the Parliament and its representatives have been even greater, taking into account the fact that two earthquakes and pandemics have led to significant changes in the state supply management system in the past year. On 17 March 2020, the Government adopted a Decision on the acquisition and use of strategic stock supplies in order to protect health and strengthen control over the Covid-19 pandemic. By justifying itself with haste and declaring it a strategic issue, the government has excluded the procurement of Covida-19 from public procurement and, according to its own report, spent more than 500 million kuna in the regime. Over 500 million kuna. When we know how the ministry, say health care manages resources through public procurement, and how it hires a florist to do digitization, then we're afraid to think that these were spent, over half a billion kuna. Again I say, haughtiness, which is not as good as usual, a request for revision of these purchases has been rejected, the government's explanation for this is that there is no need for revision because all details can be found on the website, and there is a link that leads to a site that, even after a long search, you can't find anything like that, you can't find anything. Only the report is a dreary and does not bring the necessary details to clearly indicate whether the Ministry of Economy respects its legal role through the Management. Let's say, according to Art. 27 and 28, the Directorate is obliged to supervise the selected entities that carry out the storage of goods, and large fines are provided for for non-compliance with the contract, including criminal offences with the prison sentence. According to the Report, in all the controls carried out during 2019, only one case found maladministration in storage although there are indications that such irregularities are much higher. Look, we're the country that's at the top when it comes to corruption, so it's even theoretically impossible that this one, in one place, was an irregularity, that's what I mean, it's just impossible. It means that this job is not done properly either, because you know that we are by corruption among the first 3 countries in the EU, there is a top. Our research shows that many other irregularities occur in stockpiles management, I don't know, such as saving the repetition of stock stocks that have expired or lost their functionality, such as. the old supplies of diesel, and the weak control of the products given to individual users, there is damage or destruction of such goods that are no longer for use. Adequate to selected companies at an increased storage price, and what is it, rather than corruption? The locations of the warehouse are secret, but not all are fulfilled, but not all conditions for secrecy are met. Very often help in equipping certain services, e.g. The HGSS operates through stockpiles, so these supplies do not exist at all, but are in regular use all the time. Public procurement on the fill-in of stock reserves under the exception of secrecy is bypassed. We therefore call on the Ministry of Economy to prepare a serious report on the state and management of stock stocks and on the weaknesses and failures that have proved to be both during the pandemic and after the earthquake in Zagreb and the surrounding area and in Banovina. I'm convinced there's a lot of crime in this story, but our citizens don't know much about it. It should start to expose things, uh, it needs.../incomprehensible/... to be responsible for these failures because the easiest thing for us to do is to keep it a secret. Let's keep it a secret, then no one can ask anything and do what we want under the table. Here I am, from this pay phone calling to the Parliament, I am a member of the Committee on Stock Reserves in the Parliament, and no one has ever invited me to a meeting. Here, I call, let them set up some kind of meeting di just start doing something about that to introduce mechanisms of that control and to let the clarity know what's going on here. I think people have a right to know because we saw now that we've had these disasters, basically, that we're not ready here. Don't, Secretary of State take this personal, but I think we have the most incompetent economy minister on the globe of the Earth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52727	Next club reps, eh, we've got a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Someone picked it up? It's not. Okay. The next club of representatives will be the HDZ on behalf of which respected representative Josip Begonja will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52728	I would like to thank the esteemed vice president of HS, the esteemed secretary of state with an associate, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. Introductoryly, ladies and gentlemen, the HDZ Representatives' Club will support the Government's State and Management Report for 2019 with a financial indicator. And I don't agree with the Department of Stocks for the sake of a crime as it has been imputed here so far by more than a few speakers. In accordance with the provisions of the Strategic Stocks Act, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to submit once a year a report to the HS on the state and management of supply supplies. The supervision of supply management shall be carried out in accordance with the law referred to above by the Council for Stocks, consisting of 5 members who consider the proposal for a balance sheet of strategic commodity stocks and an annual programme of strategic commodity stocks, also considering a quarterly and annual report on supply management. The report on the situation and management of the goods stock for the past.../incomprehensible/... for 2019 shows that the Directorate for Stocks has made revenues and receipts in total amounting to more than 116,734 000 kuna, of which around 61,38% refers to proceeds from the sale of non-financial assets, hence, revenues from the sale of strategic stocks, and business revenues have also been achieved at 38,62% or more than 45 million kuna. As far as expenditure is concerned, they totalled more than 143 million kuna, and they concerned operating expenditures of 20.31% or more than 29 million kuna, including material expenditures, among which the most significant items are expenditures for the storage services of goods of strategic commodity stocks, then insurance premiums and expenditures of materials and energy over 17 million kunas. Furthermore, around 79% more than that are expenditure on the acquisition of non-financial assets, including expenditure on the purchase of strategic stock and the purchase costs of long-term assets produced and not produced. Therefore, in that 2019 C.E., the Commission concluded that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, The Director's Office for Stocks has achieved a lack of revenue compared to expenditure of more than €26 million, which was covered by the transferred surplus income and receipts from earlier years amounting to more than €32 million and the excess income of cca 6 million was transferred in 2020. for the purpose of completing the balance sheet of strategic stock stocks and investments in their own warehouses for the purpose of bringing them into office. Also in the financial reports for 2019. It is apparent that there has been a reduction in total claims compared to 31.12.2018. This is about claims made by 2004. and earlier, for which all legal actions have been taken in terms of a complaint, application for bankruptcy proceedings, or criminal proceedings for responsible persons have been initiated and those claims are secured by certain guarantee instruments. Of course, the amendments to the legal norms above all the rules on budgetary accounting and the accounting plan where the corrections of the value of the claim have been made, the adjustments for claims which are up to three years late by 50% and over three years, respectively, 100%, and if the debtor is subject to bankruptcy proceedings or liquidation proceedings, then the claims are corrected at 75%. As for the further commitment of the Stocks Agency, they were about a million and 366 thousand kunas less than a year earlier. My colleagues and colleagues, there is no doubt that strategic stockpiles are significant with several aspects, and above all we think of the social, social and humanitarian role and the security role of every country that comes to terms in extraordinary situations. The continued creation of strategic stockpiles also contributes to the defence action, to the effective operation of the protection and rescue system and to the sustainability of the economy of the conditions of threat. Therefore, the creation and maintenance and territorial distribution of strategic commodity supplies is of strategic importance for each country and for our country. We are witnessing that due to natural disasters, floods, fires, environmental disasters, earthquakes, etc. who have hit us more and more frequently using strategic stock supplies in recent years to help the citizens affected by these disasters. The example works to mention floods in Slavonia, Banovina, fires in Dalmatian counties, ecological incidents, earthquakes where the water tanks were largely used, water tanks, mobile pumps, mobile dams, boxing barriers, aggregates and of course various food products. The deployment of goods and equipment and the use and storage of voluntary fire companies and JVPs also increases the equipment and preparedness for faster intervention, which can prevent accidents of larger scales, such as fires and floods. Permanently available stocks ensure smooth and timely intervention and elimination of consequences and exclude dependence on the market, the manufacturing and import sectors. In addition, further creation of supply supplies in an indirect way contributes to the economic activity of the company through the purchase of goods and through the settlement of storage costs and the preservation of the quality of supply. Out of all of the above, the importance of stockpiles is in order to respond at any moment to the challenges facing us independently or to the elemental disasters and other crises. Dear colleagues and colleagues can finally conclude that through this report, the work of the Directorate through the state and management of supply supplies for 2019 has been presented in a quality way. and, as I was saying in the introduction, the HDZ Representatives Club will support this government report on the state and management of supply supplies for 2019. with financial indicators. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52729	The next club of representatives will be that of the Centre and GLAS, and a respected representative, Marijana Puljak, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52730	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Here I will start with a few sentences from the conclusion of this report which tell us that strategic stockpiles are significant from the aspect of the social, social and humanitarian role of every country that comes to terms in extraordinary situations. So, in exceptional situations, it's important and it's strategically important to us how we're organized, whether we have enough stock and how we respond to these extraordinary situations, to the crisis situations, especially the basic disasters that have hit us lately. And it is said here that the permanent creation of strategic stockpiles contributes to defence action, more effective action of the system of protection and rescue of the economy under conditions of threat, therefore the creation, maintenance and territorial deployment of strategic stockpiles is of strategic importance. Now how are we doing with this whole system? Stock stocks have been written a lot, researched in the media, and we've been aware of a lot of affairs over the past period, so here I'm going to quote some of the articles from the media that researchers and commentators have made or offered to the public. So, they say that this story of state goods is actually a sad story, of food, non-food products that the state prepares year by year for cases of disasters, wars, natural disasters, ecological cataclysms like here are recent cases of earthquakes that we had especially on December 29th when Bani hit an earthquake of 6.2 degrees per Richter. As we reacted there, what happened, therefore damage to the homes of more than 50,000 inhabitants, insatiably at least a few thousand properties, damaged schools, and according to the data from the Ministry of Economy, aid to the victims of the stockpiles began to be sent more actively after media criticism. The history of independent Croatia has been marked by scandals related to the state of supply, indictments have been filed, trials conducted, researched over empty warehouses, talked about robberies in hundreds of millions of kunas, scandalized over false accounts, and eventually forgot to take jobs, and state warehouses finally led to the situation as it was legally and prescribed. The history of these scandals dates back to '96. the years when Vladimir Seks also chaired the parliamentary commission established because of the suspicion that grain supplies are being inflated and then sold below the price to private companies. In 2000, Ivica Racan was excavated in the state pantry when he discovered that there were goods in the warehouses that did not belong to the supplies, and then Ivo Sanader, in 2003, intended to send humanitarian aid to the victims of Iran, which turned out to have no basic supplies there. So, a series of scandals, promises to settle things. In 2011, USKOK filed charges against 6 indictees because of the grain shortages again. So, year after year of scandals. The secret was also declared the locations where the warehouses are located, but the media have therefore discovered at least when the issue of storage in the Glina Ministry of Economy entrusted it to the Agrotourism Association of Velican, which deals with the maintenance of green areas, whose manager is also one of the members of the HDZ defence community, Gojko Šupak. I also mentioned links between HDZ and goods supplies in the replica, for example Slavonia Županja, where until 2016 he was employed by the recent head of the Damir Juzbasic supply directory. So, as I have said since 2016, millions of contracts have been concluded so that during the total time of HDZ authorities since 2016, this company has earned almost 7.4 million kuna. Now if we look at the report so the value of the stock on the last day of last year was slightly more than 500 million kuna, the largest share of the stock is wheat, multi-purpose tanks, corn, euro diesel fuel, juniper meat, tents, dry meals, meat cans, etc. According to the introduction into financial values, therefore, the Republic of Croatia has 96.7 million kunas of wheat, 80 million kunas of multi-stakeholders, 32 million kunas of dry meals, meat cans, and now if we convert some of these financial values into quantities and add to them what was purchased in 2019, so we do not actually have in this report, we have what was obtained that year, we have no final state, but here if we calculate all of these supplies so at the end of 2019 with 186 tents, 54 multi-purpose auto-cisters, 144 housing containers and at least 15 energy generators and 12,000 sleeping bags. All these amounts were to be delivered to Petrinja, to Glina and the surrounding villages, the settlement no later than 24 hours after a catastrophic earthquake that took place in December last year. Since this did not happen, so people had previously responded before, before, the neighbouring countries, the aggregates, tents arrived from Slovenia and Greece, so all those who manage or should manage the entire operation to meet the need for adequate accommodation or to ensure the conditions for temporary disposal of all the earthquakes affected had therefore to explain the reasons why it did not happen. If there are no housing containers in the supplies, if there are no at least 186 tents, 12,000 sleeping bags, so the advice for the stock, Minister Mr. Coric should then explain what happened to all these supplies. The ministry then issued a statement, showing whether the containers were used for the Covid crisis and moved all over Croatia, however, this statement did not explain why we asked Slovenia and Greece to help the tents and sleeping bags because I said there were 12,000 bags to be in stock. So we had more than enough of them. The ministry also boasted that in 2 days it had delivered 2,000 whole-day dry meals that according to reports by journalists who were in the field at the time, and we saw ourselves the earthquake affected by the settlements very far from meeting the needs and regardless of the amounts of private donations that came in large quantities. Since the value of all day’s dry meals, the meat cans in the last day of last year were 21 million 480 thousand kuna, the value of fish cans 10 million 740 thousand kuna, the delivery of only 2,000 whole - day meals certainly is not for any particular commendation. So, the economy ministry apparently considered that timely renewal, that the provision of additional containers for crisis needs was launched on Tuesday 22 December, so they reacted and began to rebuild their warehouse and their supplies only after the crisis occurred. Here's another interesting piece of information, it's through stock, and that's what the media found in one article, with a supply of 5,000 departments, belts and hats for civil protection. The belt stood at 330 kuna, and the same belt for the MUP was obtained for 100 kuna. Then they bought 5,000 vans, hats, vests and belts for civil protection purposes, overpaid the vans. This is how it can be found that the price per piece was 1.745 kuna, and the Civil Protection of the City of Zagreb bought the same combination for 270 kuna. You can tell the difference. Here's to the end one comment. So, if even after future earthquakes and floods, if citizens, businesses, neighbouring countries are going to change state supplies and activities, then we don't need such supplies. These 537 million kunas, what was their value at the end of 2019, can be much smarter and more useful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52731	The next Club of Representatives will be the SDP on behalf of which a respected representative will speak
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52732	I'm sure the secretary of state thinks there's more stuff in the stock than a representative in the hall right now, probably. But that's what I can say, he can't, he'd get a warning. So stock supplies are important and undoubtedly a necessary institution. If I'm talking about an institution, I mean, of course, the principalship or the form in which it's already organized, and it's one of those institutions that actually gives security to citizens that the state exists and that the state will take care of them. And it's best for stock stores and for the state when they're not mentioned in the media at all, and when they're mentioned then it's always in a bad context and it's always something missing. It's just like that. And it is true what Mr Milatic says, therefore, that the governments in the budget, or the government in the budget, or parliamentary majority for them, singled out as much as they could and how much they estimated to be a priority at some point. So is this report for 2019. about the state and management of stock stocks with financial indicators, I would say, a report that is filed every year, which has very similar form and very similar numbers, and here in 2021, it still had a slightly different debate in the assembly. In fact, because of the earthquake that occurred both in Zagreb and in Banija, there was a question of where certain types of goods were expected or could be expected or should be assumed, as the formulations are already going, that they should be located in strategic goods stocks, and that the focus was in fact the housing containers. This is why several opposition clubs are involved, and I will read which, because of my political correctness towards my colleagues, the Club of Representatives of the SDP, the Club of Representatives of the Centre or the Civil Liberal Alliance, the Club of Representatives of the Homeland Movement, the Club of Representatives of the Most, the Club of Representatives of HSS and HSU, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Sovereigns, the Club of IDS Representatives and the Club of Green-left Block Representatives, sent a proposal for a conclusion this year on the referral of requests to the State Office for Auditing the Audit of Strategic Stocks. This conclusion is also on the agenda in some likely three-digit place, but as the Rules of Procedure and the business form of course allow us to refer such a proposal to the conclusion and to the vote on this report then the SDP Club will refer the proposal to the Assembly and formally declare, that the HS is based on Article. The 19th century is 1. The State Audit Office Act gives the request for the implementation of the revision of the strategic stock. The explanation of that request is probably all that part of the fellow MPs used to say, but it comes down to, to the greatest extent, the container question. It was that trigger, and then it added something. So let me read in, at this point and part of the reasoning of that conclusion, and it concerns Mr. Vice-President of the 2019 report, so I am completely in the topic although I am formally talking about a completely different agenda point which is also on the agenda. Therefore, the Republic of Croatia owns a number of housing units managed by the Central State Office for Reconstruction and Housing Care, which are currently available for family accommodation in need, but this number is not nearly enough for the housing of all families. However, although the strategic stockpiles of the Republic of Croatia should have provided the required number of containers in case of major natural disasters and disasters in accordance with the Strategic Stocks Act, which was certainly not the case in Bania. Many citizens whose housing facilities were destroyed were left without residential facilities, and timely temporary accommodation was not provided for them because of the lack of available housing containers and strategic goods supplies, and they could not be provided with replacement accommodation, so some of them were able to manage with private donations of autocamp homes that were inadequate for housing, and only a small number were able to provide housing containers. According to the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development, the Department of Stocks has 184 housing containers, however, only 21 housing containers were delivered from strategic stock stores in Petrinje and the surrounding area, while 201 containers were deployed in front of health facilities throughout Croatia and are serving medical staff to help fight the coronary virus while 76 containers were engaged to accommodate the population after the earthquake in Zagreb and the surrounding area. It was only in December 2020 that the Directorate for Stocks launched the purchase of additional containers, but for the specific needs of the crisis caused by the coronal virus that will send 41 containers to earthquakes, even though this is not planned. The report on the state and management of supply supplies for 2019, which the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development or the Ministry of Stocks submitted to the Government of the Republic of Croatia in October 2020, shows that housing containers account for only 1% of the total supply stocks of the Republic of Croatia, and in May 2020, the Ministry of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts answered the question that there is no need to obtain new containers because they are located at the stock store, but that the information on the exact location of the container is a secret. This report also shows how the transfer of ownership of containers and strategic stocks without compensation to cities, municipalities and associations where they have been used for several years for the purpose of supplying citizens whose houses are inadequate for housing due to elementary disasters, but neither has the number of containers been renewed. It is also unknown where containers used to house people in floods destroyed houses, as well as containers used during the migrant crisis are used in total about 300 containers. Since the strategic stock stocks are in accordance with Article 17. The Strategic Stocks Act shall be maintained by a timely renewal or purchase, and the control of the stock situation in accordance with Article 25 of the same Act shall be carried out by the directorship, by verifying the accounting and quantitative status of the goods, the question being raised as to whether in these cases the provisions, legal rules and procedures have been complied with. As the Department of Stocks alone stated in its October 2020 report, strategic stockpiles are important from the aspect of the social, social and humanitarian roles of each country that arises in exceptional situations. The permanent creation of strategic stockpiles contributes to the more effective action of the protection and sustainability system of the economy under conditions of threat, therefore the creation, maintenance and territorial distribution of strategic commodity stocks is of strategic importance. Permanently available stocks ensure smooth and timely intervention and the elimination of consequences and exclude dependence on the market, the manufacturing sector, the alliance, imports and international aid. As a result of the natural disasters that have hit us in collaboration with the State Protection and Rescue Authority, strategic stockpiles are increasingly being used. Also by moving goods and equipment and by providing for the storage and use of voluntary fire companies and public fire departments, there is an increase in equipment and preparedness for faster intervention which can prevent accidents of larger scales, fires, floods and the like. In order to fully fulfil the basic role for which they are intended, their further completion is required to allow for more efficient use and greater availability of strategic stock stocks. In this respect, given all of the above and in particular that the corresponding completeness has not been completed, the State Audit Office should carry out an audit or assess whether the activities, financial transactions, information in every relevant respect is in accordance with the applicable rules governing the operation of the Stocking Directorate and the evaluation process, whether programmes, projects and activities are implemented effectively or in accordance with the principles of economic, efficiency and relevance and whether they can be improved. I am convinced that the ruling majority will support your proposal for a conclusion and that the revision will show what needs to be shown, if you believe that it will show that it is well, then we should also support that conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52733	The next Club of Representatives will be one of the Croatian sovereigns, and will be spoken by the respected representative Željko Sacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52734	Dear Chairman, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues, today we have spoken a lot to the Croatian public from different clubs and oppositions and ruling about the great, great importance of the functioning of this strategic stocking institution. However, we in the opposition have repeatedly stressed the indications of the great gaps that are happening there. Although this is the 2019 report, of course, will be expressed with all the personal and better data that you will submit for 2020. We can now say that the function you should have, which you have in this society for which this Croatian people stand out for more than half a billion kuna, is not fulfilled enough. We had a terrible accident as a generation that gave God a unique, unrepeated one, in one process, in one period and a flood and a crown and two earthquakes and after each of these cataclysms, we should have learned something. After the flood we should have learned something we needed, we should have learned the same thing behind the crown, we should have learned behind the refugee crisis in 2016, we should have learned from the first earthquake in Zagreb, we should have learned but it was already too late behind that catastrophic one in Petrinja, but what remains painfully that we did not learn, that you did not take action not to adjust the situation. That we're in the Homeland War, for example. So as headquarters functioned, believe me, there would be a lot more human losses and a question to make certain actions look like they would be winning, or they would be in the other sense. It is therefore incomprehensible from that point of view, it is incomprehensible that certain items were not sufficiently secured. Here we all heard, we're not going to repeat the containers now. I'll go back to them in the finals. But, for example, do you, at least once a year, gather these leaders from civil protection, from the fire department, and, if necessary, from the military service, from the military security services? We should also meet socially from certain ministries in some coordination and tell the people we're going to raise awareness. Well, this isn't the former Yugoslavia, this isn't JNA. I'm afraid and I see when I read the classification of your items from corn, wheat, I don't know just black coal missing, that it's all deeply outdated, that you haven't even updated the need for state reserves with a modern state of life in the Republic of Croatia. Because now that we've been on an earthquake hit places both in Zagreb and Banovina, you see we should have heard a sleeping bag, come on. But we heard he needed a power generator. Well, that's not the problem, and you have six of them as far as I can see. So you need extension cables, for example. That's all, so you need a flashlight. At some point, the lamps wouldn't believe it, so people don't have money because they couldn't buy it. It was a yarmulke for lamps with which people would walk night after night to their lives, to their treasures. Well, he needs a shadow for cows and horses, and that was the problem. That's what you're supposed to predict. Where will you find it? Then what happened? People are charitablely, humanitarianly from Slavonia, from Slovenia, who knows where they dragged the shadows from. Well, something, however grotesque it may seem to you right now, but it's life. That's what he needs right now. Not to mention the diapers about the little kids. The diapers for the little kids at one point were a problem. There was food, but everything that was humanitarianly solved. But the state has to take care of that, some item to do what I know to stand somewhere. Well, at least it can stand, it won't fail. Now, what is crucial for the Croatian state and for you too. Except for the prevention of thieving, the crime of the great. Thank God we heard today that you've solved a lot of things. The audit's here. She's determined certain losses, but we know who they are, how. It's not as million as it used to be when they were stealing ships, wheat, or I know what. And there's still renewal. What a colleague from the SDP Club said is that requirement to carry out a certain business audit will certainly be supported by all of us for the reason that we know that someone in this Croatian state is thinking, he is well paid, that he thinks when he needs to think when he needs to panic, when it's chaos, when we can't get all the heads together at once when we have victims that are in front of the clear sky or are hungry or thirsty, or they need them. Lucky for God there wasn't a minus 20 or there wasn't snow half a metre, which is common in January every year. If it were, I'd ask you. You sent down 26, 18 containers first and 26 after that and the end of the story, and now you have a thousand 450 containers, plus a camper, I don't know where one 300, 400 pieces came from, and there's still 150 containers missing right now. So the state came in to help. Where would these people go? How would you do that? Okay, we've got the tents on. We said the thing is, someone didn't do their job. If it was at the time of the war, that someone would have ended up in a military court or in a court of law, or would have meant it would have been very bad... There's no one who can get paid, he's in charge of rebuilding, of renewing, of not being an excuse he doesn't have any money. [[You don't understand.]] People's lives are worth more than that, and there's money after all. So in that report, I'm only interested in why you're not when you're safe, you're sure to meet an official, the warehouse said somewhere – listen, we have 10 containers and we should have 300. Someone should have said it was missing. We have a thank God firm in Croatia at least three. One in Međimurje. One in Istria. One in the river. 30,000 kunas equipped container cost. So for 30 million kuna, we get a thousand containers or less if we have to. I mean, here's the story, but it's not about the container. It is a matter of responsibility, a awareness of the professional performance of the tasks of the people who have been paid for it. And it's your duty, Mr. Secretary of State. You've put a lot of work into it. I'm glad you're taking care of it. But it is your obligation for both these governments and the Ministry to make things work for me, that everyone who needs it, and if you have to, God forbid you never need it, but that we are at peace that the moment when something evil happens that the state can do it in the first wave, and if it comes from all over Europe, it's good. It was bad to read that we had extra food that we threw in the trash. But it was even worse that the people who were supposed to have a roof over their heads weren't temporary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52735	We move to an individual debate and will be the first to speak to the respected representative Marija Selak Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52736	In the meantime, I'm going back to what was said in the replica, which I couldn't answer because of business opportunities. So there is a government decision to suspend public procurement during this crisis and it is explained by the high security interest of the Republic of Croatia. Since public procurement runs smoothly in some countries, as Croatia's respirators participated at EU level, etc. It has been common procurement through the procurement process, and while public procurement has often been misused, it has been a mechanism that allows for either monitoring of the procedure or for the protection of public interests, I have argued that at the time the crisis began to be eroding or when the market was being reset, and that all the things that were missing at the time of this crisis could be obtained normally again that this decision by the Government would be withdrawn, so that we have again all that we have for the supplies and all the medical equipment in the public procurement process. However, of course expected in the government there was no hearing about such a request and we got a refusal and now here in the conversation I find something very unusual to me, which is that there is this government decision, but we don't really use it, and I guess someone's using it or no one's using it. Are government decisions binding, are they guidance or instructions? Are those recommendations or tasks? What are we talking about here? Do we have or do we not have a public procurement? If you're saying we decided to be transparent, so let's do it with an argument that I didn't really like, which is going towards it because otherwise the EU won't give us the money, not because it's a valid thing to do independently about an outside observer, then I'm asking the question because there's also this possibility because obviously government decisions can be interpreted arbitrarily, what about those factors that don't go through public procurement anyway? Are they doing this to hide something or because they are not allowed to go through with it or because they have no ability to get anything on the market? How do we know if there's arbitration in this procedure that you've revealed to us here? We can estimate who's transparent in the state and who needs to be penalized. Those aren't irrelevant questions. The issue of strategic stockpiles is a key issue of the self-sustainability of the Republic of Croatia. We've seen here about it I've been saying for myself that there are shortcomings in it, that we discovered in the worst possible way in times of crisis. When we read the 2019 report, instead of doing the 2020 report on time. Then we discover that we're certain containers and donated. Stocks are something that should be as fixed as it should be, so at the moment of the shortage, there is an immediate search for new supplies to bring this number of missing things into some stage which, by some criteria unknown to us, is satisfactory. When we lost those containers, when we were willing to donate them not only to them, they were here in focus, but also many other things were given here to Caritas, etc. Not to mention, did we go after filling in those supply supplies? If we didn't go after filling in those supplies, why did we have too much to donate in stock? Then someone obviously doesn't know what we need in stock. So there are many illogical actions and we are here to extend the answers to the questions that are rightly asked and to which the Croatian public deserves a clear and unequivocal answer. For example, the Croatian Parliament appoints a Council for Stocks which consists of three representatives of the Croatian Parliament and two prominent experts in the area of the economy. What does that advice do? To what extent was he involved in all these supplies? Is that another one in a series of declarative functions that goes according to party duty, or is that something really working? After numerous affairs that we have witnessed, Mr. Secretary of State agreed on how many malfeasances were present earlier with goods supplies, the whole story fell asleep. At the time of the worst crisis, the importance of stock supplies regained and justifiably raised the issue. In my own discussion, I pointed out that perhaps all public procurement procedures were not conducted transparently, but they were only fictitious. Is that really how it is? What does the Council of Assembly and all other bodies do? These are the questions we deserve to answer here.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52737	Thank you. She will now proceed immediately with the finally respected representative, Marija Selak Rasdic, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Mosta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52738	So, I'm gonna finish it. I won't be long. I wouldn't want to go after myself, but for some reason we went on vacation without anyone telling me about it. I see that there is not enough interest to expect for such a topic which is truly of strategic importance for the Republic of Croatia, so here we come to the fact that I can continue to speak after myself. So what I want to point out, this report, and we talked about it, is insufficient, it only has 17 pages that give us some, but not the key data that concerns the supply. In the worst way, we all learned what goods are and how important they can be in times of crisis. In order to correct the error and the unquality report and the discussion of it at a time where certain irregularities can be corrected first, it is necessary to stop breaking that arbitrary practice that is happening in the Croatian Parliament or should be stopped in such a way as to regularly report in 2021. discusses for 2019. Where are we? When did the wolf eat that one year? Where have we lost a year, how are we so late? It doesn't make any sense and it has to change. Secondly, since these reports are short and insufficient indeed, if they want to say something constructive here or reveal to the Croatian public, they must be thrown into independent research and I am here again asking that question that I asked in a speech on behalf of the club, which is a question that concerns most Croatian citizens, and that is how much corruption is in power or politics as such? I believe it also says here that we should work on better stockpiles and complement stockpiles. I don't know if anything changed in 2020 as to what was in this report compared to 2019, we can't even find out because this report should first tell us exactly what is missing that we can advocate. However, regardless of all these shortcomings, regardless of the fact that it is difficult to meet all the criteria needed to store or store a certain large amount of goods in stock, it is hard to believe that for key simple daily foods such as those that I have singled out here through public procurement procedures for individual items in supply supplies, therefore for cheese, for meat cans and pasta, that there is only one bidder at the level of the Republic of Croatia who is in the interest of making that million dollars from the state and keeping it in his own pocket. It's really hard for me to believe. You said that and that's the fact that public procurement, even when they only have one bidder, is legitimate. But just because it's something legitimate or something legal doesn't mean that it's moral or that there's no practice behind it that should be asked to open up the market and have more bidders who think they can do business with the state at all, and not as here to leave the possibility of interpreting that there are previous agreements where then these public procurements that we're going through remain merely fictitious. That's the question. You'll agree if it's not one thing, but a few simple foods, that it's self-inflicted. When we get concrete answers to them. It's not just a matter of supply, it's a matter of the whole functioning of this country, or of those who are currently and temporarily at its head.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52739	Now, finally, on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club, the honourable representative of Dalia Oreskovic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52740	The chairman, the MPs and the MPs. Usually the materials for each item of the agenda come printed in each of the clubs, so when this material came for this point, the report on the state and management of the goods supply, I incredulously asked my associates and colleagues if that was all it was. Is that all? I am not surprised, therefore, that this debate lasted this short and that it caused such a small interest as Mary Selak Rasdic spoke of before me and I am actually surprised that we even managed to extend the debate until 3 p.m. In fact, in this report, there is nothing more or less, and more would be learned about the state of supply from media articles that talk about always present corruption, always linked to prominent HDZ members, which is something little more on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Club of Representatives, Marijana Puljak said. However, if, on the basis of these media articles here, the present representatives of the motionor were to ask specific questions or if I were to actually analyse what is controversial in these media cases in detail, the corruption affairs described, it would be very likely again at the risk that I, behind me, present chairman, Mr. Željko Reiner would express the first, second, third, and I don't know which order of reminders to take words, again, I believe, for a double duration, so this time I will refrain from such, these times unnecessary risks. In order to be constructive, however, here these days, representatives' clubs have also received proposals for the necessary amendments to the Rules of Procedure, which I spoke of very often, as well as Mrs. Marija Selak Rasdić, so it might be convenient to consider that the relevant parliamentary committees, based on this review, define in advance what HS expects, in the first next submitted report on the state and management of the stock, to be contained, in which way presented, how detailedly, how structured and how much can be actually checked by a link to certain links or possible checks of the situation on the ground. Finally, this report will come to an end as it will at any other point of the agenda, so either it will be accepted or not. It will be accepted so much that the votes of the ruling for such a national disgrace will still blow up. Your shame doesn't bother you, you don't have it and there won't be one. However, the fact that you will accept such a report, despite the fact that our citizens are very much now, because of the severe disasters that have hit them, from the earthquake and beyond, are very aware that the containers have disappeared, that all those things that they needed to guarantee their safety at a difficult time are going to be your biggest defeat. Because of this you lose confidence, you will lose it permanently, and the state of supply is really important because, not because it declares itself to be a matter of strategic importance, it is really a matter of our elemental security and the way a country prepares itself for future disasters, for future threats, we are aware of how different they can be and how different they are and this is one of the issues in which it is shown, not only the responsibility in governance, which, of course, there is never, here is also love for the country and love for its citizens. Such affairs, for example, were mentioned by Marijana Puljak, in favour of this, and the testimony is that HDZ only has love for its own pockets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-16-0.u52741	That concludes the debate on this point. We'll vote on it when the conditions are met. We will continue to work tomorrow, Thursday, 17 June at 9.30 p.m. and this will be a statement on amendments to the discussed laws and budget rebalancing. Have a nice rest of the afternoon. Session adjourned at 3:11 p.m.
