ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u27182	I thank the legislators, Marijana Petir, and now we're going to interrupt, we're going to continue the debate after we hold the vote and after the free speeches. Dear colleagues and colleagues, as appropriate. Article 226(2) Rules of Procedure, firstly I will propose an addition to the agenda of the 6th session with 3 new points. These are the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Railways, the Proposal for a Family Retirement Act and the Proposal for a Law amending the Pension Insurance Act. The proposal to supplement the agenda was submitted by electronic means. Art. 227. The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. Art. 206. The Rules of Procedure lay down that, following an urgent procedure, laws are adopted which comply with EU documents, if requested by the applicant, and are not voted on. This is the point of the first amendment submitted, Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Railways. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. Rules of Procedure, I find this legislative proposal to be included in the agenda Any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the case of the adoption of the law under points 2 and 3 of the proposed amendment? In the absence of any comments, a proposal for an emergency procedure is deemed to be accepted in accordance with 205. Rules of Procedure, so I find that all the proposed items are included in the agenda of the 6th session.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u27246	The next club of MPs is the SDP on behalf of which Irena Simunic, the respected representative, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u27247	Dear Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. In today's address, I'm going to talk about the problem of abolishing passenger lines by HH. HH Travel transport d.o.o. A commercial company owned by the Republic of Croatia which provides passenger transport services to the railways as the sole provider of those services. The Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure entrusted HZ with the provision of public passenger transport services guaranteeing passenger transport services for the period from 1 January 2019 to 31 December 2028, ensuring transparency while respecting social, environmental and regional development factors. The 2020 timetable entered into force on 13 December 2020, with information that it is valid until 11 December 2021, but only a dozen days later, there was a change in the timetable that literally took place overnight without prior timely information to the citizens. Such behaviour by HH administration has caused many problems and has caused great dissatisfaction among the users of services. On the Croatian website, there is a reason that passenger transport records a significant reduction in passenger numbers due to the Covid-19 pandemic, and since 25 December it has been temporarily reduced by rail passenger transport in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, it is 16% of the services of 821 trains and... on them 134. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The biggest problem for sure is 76 completely abolished lines that don't drive until further notice, perhaps forever. The question of justifying the removal of these lines is, were these exactly the abolished lines the most controversial? The field data says otherwise. Namely, only 10 lines have been abolished in the carlovak County alone, of which even 6 on the Karlovac-Ozalj-Bubnjari route. Trains, train, train, train, train, train, train, train, train, train, train, train, train, train, train, train, train, train, train, train, train, train, train, train, train, train, train, train, train, train, train, train, train, train, train, train, train, train, train, train, train, train, train, train, train, train, train, train, train, train, train, train, train, train, train, train, train, train, train, train, train, train, train, It's about what happened. working trains, the only long-standing public passenger relationship in that time to go to work. If the new situation was to end some of the lines, it certainly shouldn't have mattered. With this move, many are passengers, and primarily women from these parts are placed in a more unfavourable position because some of them are no longer able to travel to work, and they are hardly able to find a job in a place of residence because otherwise they would not be able to travel to Karlovac. It is unacceptable to argue that it is non-profitable lines because such a business policy leaves rural areas cut off and abolished for basic needs which is not at the end... a balanced development of all ends. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is certainly not the only isolated case of dissatisfaction, yet since many of the lines in the entire country have been abolished. The question arises, were these exactly the lines, who made such decisions, how were they made, which criteria were managed in making decisions, and which arguments justified the abolition of these lines? The situation on the ground, which is a concrete example of the city I come from, the removal of a working train in my city says that such a move has nothing to do with common sense. Indeed, prior to decision-making, communication with JLS was needed to achieve a compromise solution, taking into account the well-being of citizens. I would like to remind you, Minister Butkovic denied announcements of the suspension of the lines at the 9th month, saying that the profitability of individual lines needs to be regularised because there is a situation that trains drive 3-4 times a day with 1-2 passengers, but that no further debate on the matter has been held at the moment and decisions have not been made. Today 4 months later decisions were made certainly without a quality debate and not for the benefit of all citizens of service users. Call for HZ-Roading Transport, the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, and the Honorable Minister to correct the wrongs done, carefully verify the justification for the removal of lines throughout the Republic of Croatia and return those lines that are necessary in individual units of local and regional self-government. In the end, on behalf of my Ozljans and all passengers of our worker train, I ask and appeal for the line of passenger train 4401 and 4408 to be restored because it is a lifeline. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u27427	The next Club of Representatives will be the Homeland Movement, and the Honorable Representative Davor Dretar will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u27428	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, the Croatian public. Today, we included Sisak-Moslavina County in the Rehabilitation Act. Let me remind you again of the March 2020 earthquake. which has created large, still unsettled problems for the people of Krapina-Zagorje County, primarily those in the area of Lower and Upper Stupica. Once again from this place, I refer to the official question of Mr. Darko Horvat. A few questions. To whom could the earthquake sufferers not receive information related to the completion and submission of requests for renewal and collection of the necessary contributions? Namely, the e-mail questionnaires are expected to be answered for over a month or more or not at all. When the victims call the number for information, no one's been answering for days. The second question, is it also planned when the Help Office is opened for victims in the column area because people have difficulty filling the renewal requirements and collecting contributions? The third question, does the ministry plan and when to send its experts to tour the terrain and visit the victims? Will it be possible to rebuild housing even if the victims have only a building permit, so if the house is not legalized? I must remind myself that once again unfortunately it is an area which is mostly full of nursing households where all the permits are not regulated, all the papers and these people really need help. The earthquake in the stairway area damaged housing since March 22nd, but it was further damaged during the December earthquake. Will these people, and once they've re-established the static, will the statisticians go out in the field? People have to pay 3.100 kuna to re-enter the field, for some it's a big financial problem. Once again, Mr. Horvat is asking if and may it be possible to extend the deadline for submission of the application so far put on 30 June of this year? And once again, the Upper Stubica area has been assisted, so we're asking for the victims to be released from 20% of the recovery payment because it's too much for them. So, once again, I ask as an official agent's question and ask for an answer on behalf of the Secretary-General. And I have two more minutes to say that here today we have experienced the fall of the opposition proposal to abolish mandatory membership in the HGK. Let me tell you in that name a gentleman who would really have a lot to say today, especially after we heard the presentation and saw the vote of a man who should be a liberal after his political vote. What would one of the greatest politicians say about this, but also intellectuals, the late Vlado Gotovina? Let me quote you his words. We live in a situation where almost all experiences are random, in which almost all people are committed without national physionomy, in which it is possible for Croatia to become anything, a common European province, completely devastated, a European dump site, a space of technologically outdated programmes, a European dormitory, a space of cheap and unprotected tourism, so any of us superior Europe can be used for and intended for those who do not decide their own fate, in accordance with their own ideas." So once again, I call on everyone, both the ruling and the opposition, to consider and to realize that the fact that the big words of a great man are by their own behaviour, so by their work, and by my vote in the Croatian assembly, we must justify. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u27429	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is that of the Centre and GLAS and will speak to the respected representative Marijana Puljak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u27500	I thank the chairman, dear colleagues. I came from the town of Krilo Jesenice, a small place on the road between Split and Omis which has only 700 inhabitants but 116 tourist ships, once pulled sand or salbun as we say about the building and then, 30 years ago, they began to switch to tourism and today they have 116 tourist mini cruises but actually today yachts. And so these 116 ships need to have a port somewhere, the port that's now there has become too tight. However, here are the locals of this small town in Dugi Rat municipality found themselves in an interesting trick where the authorities of Split-Dalmatia County were factory in showing and installing procedures in space, not respecting and playing the legal procedure relating to seaports, specifically, for the newly planned public transport port, the county importance in Krilo Jesenice. How is it possible for the newly planned Krilo Jesenice port to be installed in the county spatial plan without any prior geographical, spatial, traffic analysis and economic viability studies and without coordination and consent in the involvement of the sole competent authorities for the submission of requests for the installation of procedures in the public transport port plan, which is the competent public authorities of the county port administration and local self-government units of the Dugi Rat municipality? In the proceedings which took place in 2019 and 2020, comments were submitted by a certain law and professional association of the Association of Architects of Split, the general public and local self-government units, with the additionally continuous active participation of the locals themselves by pointing to irregularities and the unsustainability of the planned procedure, the county designers of the spatial plan aprior, perfiorally and without any over-explaining explanation, dismissing reasonable remarks on the obvious highlighted irregularities of the proposed procedure in the plan and its misrepresentation. The locals of Krila Jesenica are becoming victims of a non-principled, insatiable, narrow private interest, given that they are being imposed on the proposed procedures in their living space, which would significantly reduce their quality of life, since this spatial plan also imposes on the construction of a new road road in the same place as the connecting road on the new Split-Omis bypass and only the settlement to explain, Krilo Jesenice is situated in a narrow area between the sea and i.e. the existing ports and steep terrain and through the place passes the Adriatic highway. Something arbitrary and non-transparent ideas without the necessary traffic studies, I am trying to convince the public about the need for a ferry port at the existing port of Krilo, and then the need for an additional new planned in Krula with a ferry port, all to artificially create conditions for acquiring the feature of the transport multimodality of the project in order to obtain funds from EU funds. It's like we know it, punishable practice. Back in 2 years, there was an initiative to build a new port which the municipality of Dugi Rat rejected in its plan because the locals were against such an operation and because it received a negative opinion from the then Ministry of Environmental and Energy Protection. With all these interpretations, they have been introduced to the competent county office, the Office for Spatial Planning, the leadership of the Split-Dalmatia County, have been sent to the remarks, and yet, they deliver unsuspecting answers did not cover up illegal actions in the process. And it is now an unimaginable precedent that the county spatial plan is awarded the open public transport port proposal for which the county port administration has not requested or is the unit of local self-government. So neither the county port administration nor the local self-government units support the port of this type, so we wonder why it insists on its realisation? Realisation of so-listed procedures under false justification for development would choke the village of Krilo Jesenice since it is physically existing 2 ports, the third being imposed on them, covering the largest newly planned port on one side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u27501	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is the HDZ, according to respected representative Marko Pavic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u27599	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament. I'd like to use this free speech today on behalf of the HDZ Club, yesterday the little recorded news was in the media that an additional 590,000 protective caps and 80,000 suits for our COVID medical staff arrived from China. What we take is healthy for almost many countries, in their fight with covid, felt the lack of medical equipment, and that Croatia is still one of the leaders in the fight with covid, as we see in today's figures. The infection in the last two weeks of 164 infected at 100,000 with which we are 6th in the EU. Unfortunately, 5,000 of the deceased speak as much as this disease is dangerous and how much longer we need to wait for the opening that citizens of course want. We forget the same fact that during the Croatian Presidency, our initiative has provided maximum flexibility in EU funds that has been used precisely for the purchase of medical equipment. Unlike other countries and developed countries in the EU, Croatia has at no time experienced the lack of medical equipment, protective masks, departments for our healthcare professionals and our citizens, and this is by direct agreement between Prime Minister Plenkovic and the Chinese prime minister agreed on an air bridge, and now with containers comes the protective equipment where we have managed to secure this medical equipment from European funds over 500 million kuna. So in the moments of last year when many countries offered each other higher prices at airports and in some ways took other countries, we had direct bridges for this equipment just by agreeing on Prime Minister Plenkovic and what we see as a successful form of cooperation between Croatia and China, China+17. When we talk about a total fight with covid, I think we can be proud of what the government has done so far. And once again, 5,000 of our citizens who have passed away says enough about how dangerous this disease is, but also the figures say that the government has stood by our entrepreneurs, so far over 9 billion kunas invested in the employment service, 600,000 of our citizens today have jobs just for government measures and those black forecasts of opposition that there will be unemployment over 400,000 did not come true, we have seen unemployment rises by one 5 to 6,000 compared to the summer months, and we also see 10 thousand jobs advertised at the Employment Office. This means that the economy is working, we are asking for the patience of more citizens to be patient so that we can have a successful and season of spring holidays and Easter holidays and open for summer days. What is also good news is that today's headquarters reported that by the end of February the third vaccine, 154,000 doses, which is expected to be vaccinated by over 650,000 citizens by the end of March. We are aware of the problems of obtaining vaccines within the EU. In the last council, Prime Minister Plenkovic also stressed Croatia's view that we must be better, more determined there and that we must ensure that the entire EU is sufficiently accessible in order to manage to split the plan by summer, according to the plan for Croatia's vaccination, the aim is to split in a way that 50% of our population is vaccinated by summer months. In all, we balance between health measures where we realize that it is important to preserve our lives, especially more vulnerable groups of our older citizens and economic measures. We give great support, even bigger than many more developed EU members to our entrepreneurs, 9 billion kuna for 600,000 jobs, a vaccine is provided, a third vaccine that will arrive in Croatia next week. Therefore, this shipment from China that arrived yesterday tells enough how the government of Andrej Plenkovic is fighting for citizenship, entrepreneurs and to defeat this pandemic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u27600	Thank you very much. Here is our esteemed colleague and colleague, our break has expired, and we will begin to present a position on behalf of the club of representatives and independent representatives and the first one on behalf of the Club of Representatives Mosta will speak to the respected representative Marija Selak Raspoudić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u27675	My colleagues and colleagues. Art. 5th century 3. The law of restoration before these changes and additions, do you know what that is? It is an item that promises to restore 50% of the amount to the owner of other real estate and all other properties. Do you have any idea which one of these was of any use to him? Have you perhaps read the newspaper today and seen some state secretary who has more real estate and who have already begun to renovate them by means of rebuilding buildings that have suffered from earthquakes? Why am I saying this? Because I'm old today, it's said that a man gets old when he faces the reality of life, and today I face the reality of voting in the Parliament. When we voted on the first Law in renewal, then it was not about arguments, but about whether you were for or against Zagreb. We remained restrained precisely because we are for Zagreb and because such a missing law that suits certain groups which are not transparent enough and which does not introduce clear reconstruction criteria could not be supported. If we were right, it can be seen that since the law was passed, it has not yet been brought to life, it is seen by the new things that are coming out, as is now the case with state secretaries benefiting from certain paragraphs of the law, this has been warned. Before this law was passed, we said that we are potentially at the edge of the biggest possible conflict of interest in HS history because there are stakeholders who will benefit from this Law on Reconstruction, more specifically from the way the reconstruction is financed. And then why did I grow old today? Today, in this assembly, I witnessed the election of amendments and the addition of the Law on Reconstruction where we were again reduced to the story of whether you are for or against Sisak, whether you are for or against Banovina. If you're for Sisak and you're for Banovina, you're going to be tempted to uphold this law, otherwise, otherwise we're going to create a picture that you're against. And what kind of law were we supposed to uphold? We should've backed a law that's anti-constitutional. Why is it anti-constitutional? This law introduces the arbitration criteria for the declaration of disaster as the only criterion by which the financing of 100% reconstruction funding is determined. When was this criterion introduced? I'll remind you, the first criterion was to help the area, and then when it turned out that the support did not go through with Sisak when media pressure was put on ahead of the local elections, while ruling better speeded up the law again, made one form of legislative violence and created another one-time bill to satisfy the media and to insert Sisak. But they didn't help Sisak and they didn't send a message that Sisak was important, they sent another much worse message, and that's like we're introducing anti-constitutional criteria today to get Sisak in, tomorrow we're going to throw that same Sisak when we don't have political opportunism on the first corner. We were looking at the principles of constitutional categories of equality and social justice to introduce a criterion that would include both Sisak and Banovina and other assisted areas in which the earthquake had previously been and in which the arbitration disaster was not declared whether there was no media pressure. We citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia sought the criteria of equality and social justice, the criterion was rejected because it was not politically opportunised at the time. Citizens of Sisak, by not supporting such a bill, we have sent you a message that, as we have asked in this law, there are places for you, but also for all the other citizens of the Republic of Croatia who have suffered in the earthquake and now in the future, that we will not leave you as we have left you now, and also for you in the future, that we will not deal with ground-based political calculations that are anti-constitutional and that we will always pass such laws as we should be, and that is in accordance with the values of our Constitution. Because no matter what you try to say about such a vote, we will never pass laws that as such as laws cannot be constitutionally sustainable.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u28360	We are now going to vote on the report by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia on the European Council meetings held in 2020. The applicant is the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the home working body, I am voting on the following conclusion. A report by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia on the European Council meetings held in 2020 is hereby adopted. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? Is it coming? There he is. 136 MPs voted, 78 were for, 36 abstentions and 22 against, and we thus accepted the report by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia on the EU Council meetings held in 2020. As we reached this conclusion, we do not need to vote on the proposal of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives, which proposed a conclusion that is being taken into account the Report of the Prime Minister. We are now moving to the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the restoration of buildings damaged by the earthquake in the City of Zagreb, Krapina-Zagorje County and Zagreb County, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 102. The promoter is a government. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the SDP Representatives' Club, the Legislator's Committee, Siniša Hajdas Dončić, the National Movement Representatives' Club, a representative named Brumnić, a HNS Representatives' Club and Independent Representatives' Club, the MOST Representatives' Club, Nikola Grmoj's representative, the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives, the HDZ Club and representatives of Katarina Peović. The review of the amendments has been sent to you by electronic means. We have held a statement on the amendments earlier in the session, so we will vote on amendments that the applicant does not accept, but before that we have a request for a break, dear colleague Ivan Celjak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u28996	Dear President HS, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. We are looking for a 10-minute break on behalf of the HDZ Club in order to further consider the effects of this important renewal law, which we hope to bring forward by consensus today. All of us in the government of the Republic of Croatia, headed by the prime minister who worked on this bill, all of us who worked on an amendment to the HDZ Club, which the government accepted and thus enabled all residents living in the disaster-affected area to finance their unusable and temporarily unusable facilities, all of us who took part in the debate on this law have made our contribution to the legal solution that is today ahead of us. Such a contribution has not been made by individuals who have only made political promotion through posters in Sisak, and I hope that colleagues and colleagues in the opposition have given good thought to what they did last Friday when they made it impossible to pass this law and that today we will show commonity and cooperation because we are expected by residents living in a disaster affected area. In addition to the renovation for our area, it is important to revitalise, and this first concrete step in revitalising the conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia which ensures the completion of the Lekenik-Sisak highway that we Siseni have been waiting for for years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u28997	I want to thank my colleague Celjak. The apartment will be approved. We've got a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a colleague of the Grmoi, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u28998	Injury. 238 from a colleague of the Celjaks. So it wasn't the opposition that did anything but you, the Honorable President, made a move and pulled our law out of the vote. So you're the ones who didn't have a majority because there was a division in the ruling coalition, and Mr. Celjak, if there hadn't been a struggle against Sisak, the question is what would have happened to Sisko.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u28999	Comrade Grmoy, you have been warned because this is no violation of the Rules of Procedure, you know it very well, and I am not going to get back into what happened on Friday, since I think today is not the day to talk about it, but I will move on and give my word to my colleague Dretar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u29000	Thank you very much, Mr. President-in-Office. At this point, I'm slightly doubting my own political function because I'm going to support Mr. Celjak and the HDZ Club in the search for, that is, an impressive political phenomenon. Namely, the earthquake that struck the city of Zagreb, Zagreb and Krapina-Zagorje County occurred in March last year, and then at the end of last year we were struck by a devastating earthquake in the area of Sisak-Moslavina and Karlovac County. So it has been 10 months since the Zagreb earthquake, of this unpleasant, terrible and terrible earthquake in the area of Glina, or Sisak and the entire Banovina month and a half. I am impressed by the fact that the HDZ Representatives Club will do something good after its impressive inaction in the already mentioned deadlines over the next 10 minutes. So I really suggest, let's give them that break because those 10 minutes and the results of that deal, we're all looking forward to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u29001	Comrade Dretar, they'll be faster, they've already agreed, so let's move on with our work. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with No, I don't. Then we're going to vote on the amendments. 1st is the amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Most, the government does not accept it and we must vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? Can we? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Let's go to Amendment No. 2 MPs Katarina Peovic, the government does not accept it, so please let us vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment No. 3 The Legislative Committee has been adopted and becomes an integral part of the bill. Amendment No. 4 Green-left bloc representatives' clubs, the government doesn't accept it, we have to vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment No. 5 The HDZ Representatives Club was adopted in an amended form, with which the applicant agreed and became an integral part of the final draft of the law in amended form. Amendment No. 6 The Legislative Committee has been adopted and becomes an integral part of the bill. Amendment No. 7 The club of HNS representatives and independent representatives has not been accepted and must be voted on. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment No. 8 SDP representatives clubs have been withdrawn. Amendment No. The 9 MPs of Sinisha Hajdash Doncic were withdrawn. Amendment No. 10 and Amendment No. 11 are identical, so we'll vote on this amendment all of a sudden. The first is the Club of Representatives of the Mosta, 10th, and the 11th is the representative of Nikola Grmoy. The government, therefore, does not accept it, please let us vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment No. 12 Green-left bloc representatives' clubs, the government doesn't accept it, please let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment No.13 to MP Katarina Peovic, the government does not accept. Please, let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment number 14 of the MPs called Brumnic, the government does not accept, we must vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment number 15. The House Movement MPs' club, the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment number 16. The Legislative Committee is accepted as an integral part of the bill. Amendment number 17. The SDP representative club, the government does not accept and we must vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment number 18. The MOST advocates' club, the government doesn't accept it. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment number 19. Green-left bloc representatives' club has been accepted and becomes an integral part of the law. The number 20th Amendments The Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives still does not accept this government, so we must vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. We are going to Amendment number 21 of Parliamentarian Katarina Peovic, the government is not accepting him, so we must vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment number 22. The Department of Homeland Movements' club, the government doesn't accept it, so we have to vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment number 23. The Legislative Committee has been adopted. Amendment number 24. The MOST representative club has been accepted. Amendment number 25. The Legislative Committee also adopted Amendment No 26. The Legislative Committee has been adopted, so they all become an integral part of the bill. And now we will move to a vote on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Reconstruction of Buildings damaged by the earthquake in the City of Zagreb, Krapina-Zagorje County and Zagreb County. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 141 MPs and MPs voted, 113 were for, 25 abstentions and 3 against, and thus passed the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the restoration of buildings damaged by the earthquake in the City of Zagreb, Krapina-Zagorje County and Zagreb County. Representative Davorko Vidovic proposed to the Croatian Parliament the following conclusion. The Government of the Republic of Croatia undertakes to submit every three months to the Croatian Parliament a report on all the actions undertaken to remove the damage caused by the earthquake on 28 and 29 December 2020 in the City of Zagreb, Krapina-Zagorje County, Zagreb County, Sisak-Moslavina County and Karlovac County, the conclusion of the Government does not accept. Stanko was asked by counterpart Dalia Oreskovic, and then we will stop voting and we will vote after the request for a break. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u29002	... [[Speech is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u29003	What?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u29004	So, I didn't know you were going to explain Mr. Vidovic's request, I'm looking for a break before the National Development Strategy proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u29005	All right, then we return to what was before this request and I am voting on the proposal of the conclusion of MP Vidovic, whom the government does not accept. Please, let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 127 MPs and MPs voted, 50 were for both one abstention and 76 against, so the conclusion did not get a sufficient number of votes. Final proposal of the Penal Code, second reading, P.Z. No. 11, the motion is Government, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, MP Veljko Kajtazi and the Club of Representatives of the HDZ. During the plea, the proposer's representative accepted all amendments submitted and they become an integral part of the final draft of the law and I am voting on the Final Proposal of the Law on the execution of prison sentences. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? 136 MPs and deputies voted, 122 for, 8 abstentions and 6 against, and thus passed the Penal Code.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u29062	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u29063	Thank you, counselor, and congratulations... On your sworn oath, and I wish you a great deal of success in your future work. [[Applause]] Report by the National Attorney General of the Republic of Croatia on the work of the national lawyers in 2019, the applicant is the main state lawyer of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is concluded. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: A report by the National Attorney General of the Republic of Croatia on the work of the national lawyers in 2019 is accepted. Who's restrained? And who's against it? 136 MPs voted, 75 were for, 2 abstentions and 59 against, and we adopted the conclusion that the parliamentary working bodies had proposed.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u30111	President of the Parliament, I request a 10-minute recess on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Club for further consultation on how to vote on this agenda point. Croatia, if it wants to survive, must change and there is no reform in this strategy. For example, we had the opportunity to see the HDZ react when the opposition is organised and united with citizens seeking change. President of the Parliament, yesterday you stated that the opposition was politically and intellectually sub-capacitated, asking you to apologize to all voters who voted in favour of the opposition because, according to your twisted logic, it is clearly worth only those who voted for the corrupt octopus of HDZ. Yesterday's statement makes you unworthy of acting as president of the Croatian Parliament. The more the political and intellectual capacities of HDZ and your ruling majority make up people like Barusic, Puljasic and Tušek. This is not a guarantee that you have made a good quality of the National Development Strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u30112	counterpart Oreskovic, the break will be approved. And about what you said, so it was a political speech, and I'm sure that the vast majority of MPs and MPs from the opposition didn't recognize it, and those who recognized each other, I sincerely apologize to them. Comrade Bencic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u30113	Thank you. I am looking for a break on behalf of the Green-Left bloc club in order to actually analyse once again the possibilities for this strategy to be improved and to find a way within this 2021 to bring in a document that will represent a real developmental shift and which will be the basis for the use and national funds, as well as EU funds, in order to truly become a leader in the green transition. The prime minister said one day that the opposition did not make amendments to the strategy proposal, this strategy cannot be improved by amendments, it needs a whole new concept and a new document for the reasons that they are in the same paragraphs as fully, diametrically opposite activities and measures. For example, we want sustainable green tourism and then we say that we will achieve it by building a dock for mega yachts. Also, it will likely contribute to reducing CO2 footprints. We say we're going to have a tax system that's simple and fair at the same time, the one that does that will get the Nobel Prize for economics. So we have countless examples within this strategy that show that it has not been considered, that the text has not been refined and that we have not done what is crucial and that has chosen priority areas of development, both in industry and in the field of social development. We couldn't see anything new in this document. In order to improve it, it is really crucial to include a number of stakeholders, to include all those experts and experts, our professional institutes that did not participate in this and that instead of Martina Dalić who is nowhere on the list of consultants and we know that she worked on the strategy, they contribute to making Croatia a better country in 2030. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u30114	The apartment is approved. Is there another club on the way? If I don't, I'm gonna call an officer. 293, b, and we'll keep working. So, the proposal for a national development strategy for Croatia by 2030, is proposed by the Government, the debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by the HDZ Representatives' Club, during a statement on amendments, by the proposer's representative, who accepted the amendment of the HDZ Club and became an integral part of the National Development Strategy proposal. On the basis of Art. Paragraph 52. The Law on the System of Strategic Planning and Management of the Development of the Republic of Croatia and the Proposals of the Assembly Working Authorities shall be put to the vote of the Proposal for a National Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia until 2030. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 138 MPs and MPs voted, 77 were for, 2 abstentions and 59 against, and thus we are the National Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia until 2030. The SDP Club proposed to the Croatian Assembly the following conclusion: The Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to amend the composition of the Management Board for the construction of the National Strategy of the Republic of Croatia by 2030 in such a way as to make up a total of 6 representatives of the Croatian Parliament and their deputies, 3 from the ranks of representatives of the ruling majority and 3 from the ranks of opposition. The government doesn't accept that conclusion, so then we start voting. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that the conclusion didn't get enough votes, 56 was for, 76 was against. Proposal for a law amending the Law on the Safety Protection of Maritime Ships and Ports, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 83, the promoter is the Government, the debate is concluded in accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. Proposal for a Law amending the Safety Protection Act for Maritime Ships and Ports is hereby adopted; and 2. Any comments and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? 137 MPs and deputies voted, 130 for, 7 abstentions and thus concluded that it was proposed by the working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u30337	Dear President HS, distinguished MPs and MPs and respected citizens of the Republic of Croatia who look at us through the screen. We asked for a break on behalf of the MOST Club in order to further affirm our arguments regarding this conclusion that is before us today. What I would like to remind our MPs and MPs is that we have been scrupulously collecting signatures along with the entire opposition, that our bill was put in the evening, and that we discussed until the morning until half past three in the morning. Last Friday we came to a bona fide or in good faith that we will succeed in voting the law that we so zealously prepared, but when the government, Mr. Plenkovic and Mr. Jandrokovic, president of HS, when they realized that they would not have a majority, what they did was withdraw the law and thus were sacrificed both by our entrepreneurs and craftsmen, workers, fishermen and unfortunately Banovina. As far as this whole process is concerned, this is all seen by entrepreneurs and craftsmen and you saw for yourself, which means 50, 500 and some emails we received and this is very important to me. Mr. Hrebak and HSLS became synonyms for entrepreneurship overnight, and instead of transparency, they managed to deliver incompetence, hypocrisy and further corruption within HGK to the Croatian public. As for HGK, therefore, he was not a lot of hacks or membership fees, not enough money from the Ministry of Projects, money from the budget, and loans raised in HGK, so the hack is not enough, and real estate is sold. The question arises whether the crime that is now being covered is what is now being heard that the same firm has renewed the facade with multimillion-dollar amounts to HGK, while at the same time buying real estate. The price in one city, is that maybe [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The real estate business that made Mr. Plenkovic... [[Thank you, Mr. Troscott.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u30338	Comrade Troscott, your time is up, you should have said it earlier, I'm very sorry, the break will be approved, but only one technical thing that keeps repeating by your club. So, it was not even put to the vote because the conditions had not been met because the club, the representatives of the ruling majority, asked me to postpone this vote. So I didn't withdraw and you keep saying that he was on the agenda for the vote, so that he was withdrawn. He never found himself able to vote last Friday. I'm asking you to stick to the facts after all. I, of course, approve of you. Now it's my fellow Whiteman, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u30339	Thank you very much, esteemed President HS, colleagues and colleagues. I am looking for a break of 10 minutes on behalf of the Club of Assembly Representatives of HSS and HSU in order to further consult, although I can now say that we are deeply disappointed that in principle we are, therefore, on the agenda another throw of sand in the eyes of Croatian citizens or entrepreneurs who, in principle, pay all of us, so you too who are going to raise your hand today so that it is not abolished or how you will formulate it, but this cat about the tail, you can cheat whoever you want the people to cheat you will not, so to eliminate an absolutely unnecessary imposition, one of them hundreds as many as there are in Croatia, and I hope that very soon people will see through and throw those politicians who are under the cover of some liberalism, you must therefore fight to make something mandatory. And when he's working a liberal, then he's gone, I guess there's no worse in the world, when someone says I'm a liberal, but this has to be mandatory. So, it doesn't have to be mandatory and it won't be mandatory, we politicians, you ruling the squeeze of businessmen and soon you'll be draining the last drop out of them and soon there won't be any more for our salaries, nor for mandatory, or voluntary memberships, especially for a society like the HGK and what many more there are in Croatia, and who not only do nothing but serve, are just serving to be places to love lovers, political staff, new young politicians like we have a chance to see, who knows who doesn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u30340	Stanka has been approved and we are now going to request a break from the 3rd floor, colleague Hrebak please come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u30341	Dear President HS, colleagues and fellow MPs. After 30. For the first time, we have decided that we are going to change the law and more importantly to reform the entire system problem of HGK. We made it clear that this reform will be based on the gradual abolition of mandatory membership in the HGK. All parties of the ruling coalition have agreed on this. If someone thinks that in this high house laws are passed overnight with only two sentences from a colleague of Troscott, then I don't think we know the procedure well enough. On the other hand, if you still think such laws can be passed overnight, then it is the top of the hypocritical colleague Troscott because you were in two governments with HDZ, because you had 5 ministers, because you had as the Most Minister of Economy, because you had the President of the Croatian Parliament who puts that point of change to the vote, you had everything but not even 365 nights to change what we are doing now after 30 years, and related to the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. So much for bridge hypocrisy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u30342	We have several injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Let's take it in a row, colleague Zekanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u30343	So, the Honorable President of the Assembly of Article 238, here is colleague Hrebak not telling the truth. I don't think the Croatian public has forgotten his position since a few days ago where he announced that he will be the one who will support this very bill and who will fight to lift the parafiscal intrusion, and suddenly turned the story, and I must stress that my colleague Hrebak here has shown his credibility. and HDZ on-call commentator [[Agreement: colleague Zekanovic.]] In HSLS' uniform, he showed who he was and what he was. [[Agreement: colleague Zekanovic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u30344	Comrade Zekanovic, please sit down, you are being warned this has nothing to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Please don't do this. He reported a breach of the Rules of Procedure and a colleague of the Troscotts.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u30345	Infringement of Rules of Procedure Article 238, as regards the MOST and its activities, in cutting parafiscal charges and in general taxes I'll say it, I'll say it now, so let me answer it. [[Intruder: What's hurt, which, what's hurt please?]] We have abolished the company tax and continue to cut off all other charges, and here is a hypocritical and insolent look at a person who, in cooperation with your prime minister overnight, changed the entire decision of the Croatian Liberal Party and disgraced The basic principles on which they rest until this law was passed. [[Intruder: A colleague please.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u30346	A fellow Troscott gets a warning, time's up, please sit down. This has nothing to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Your colleagues and colleagues don't behave properly. What you're doing is replicas, it has nothing to do with the injuries of the Rules of Procedure. Comrade Puljak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u30347	Here I will risk the warning of the Honorable President and say that Mr. Hrebac hurt Article 238 where he insulted the entire opposition, insulted the common sense of all of us, thinking that we all forgot what he was saying 5 days ago, which he swore, which the whole community saw on the social network, and so how he turned his mind after a heated meeting with the prime minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u30348	Comrade Puljak, thank you very much, time's up, you're getting a warning. Comrade Hrebak, here you are, looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u30349	The Honorable President of the Assembly I will not use the replica through the violation of the Rules of Procedure, but I will appeal to Article 238, my colleague Zekanovic explicitly insulted me at a personal level, and if someone really wants to change something, then you must have 76 hands of you today from the opposition have 10 less. You'd be changing Croatia, and you can't even come to the assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u30350	After all, you've replicated your colleagues, and you'll get a warning. So now we're going, injuring my colleague Petrov's Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u30351	Dear Prime Minister, Article 238, it is nice to see the sacrificial entry of the bullet by Mr. Plenkovic, but Mr. Hrebak did not mean to do anything but we forced you to lie today for the sake of the election only to pass and you will not change anything and protect the crime that is now worse than in Vidosevic's time because these there are not only taking a hack from membership fees but selling Real estate, they get money from the government, and you protect it all. [[/Intruder: Comrade Petrov, come on.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u30352	Comrade Petrov, you were the president of the assembly and you know that what you did has nothing to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure and that this is a pure replica and you get a warning. And I'm going to release this breach of the Rules of Procedure to my colleague, Selak Rasdic, but this really has nothing to do with the injuries of the Rules of Procedure, these are pure replicas. Here are my colleagues, Selak Rasudiæ, and secondly, I ask the representatives of MOST to leave the hall because there are five of you now, there can only be two of you, so please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u30353	Article 238, my colleague, Hrebak, was the first to insult counsel Troscott that he was hypocritical, and now the entire opposition that appeared here and voted on everything. A colleague of the Croatian public is already embarrassed to listen to you, you know that story about the gambler who didn't fail what he was gambling but what he was pulling out. Well, you could learn something from that story. In the case of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and the principles that you, which you have declared, would be better off at least keeping your mouth shut in this story.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u30354	My colleagues, Selak Rasudiæ, this has nothing to do with the violation of the Rules of Procedure, and you also get a warning. I also see a colleague, Rasdic, who called before the representative Selak, who he thinks was the exposure of fellow Petrova or what you are, where is the breach of the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u30355	Infringement of Rules of Procedure, paragraph 238, insult and demeaning of representatives by you Honored Presidential Assembly, yes [[/Intruder: From me?]] Yes, you should work on the Rules of Procedure and you and others who are sitting serving in this assembly in order to direct a formal debate in order to avoid cacaphony, not to interrupt MPs in half a sentence. [[- Okay. - Okay.]] You have to let counsel Troscott say it all the way, and then give him a warning if he deserves it. So, Honor the function you act and let people speak, and [[Thank you, thank you very much.]] Then act on the Rules of Procedure. [[Intruder: Your time is up.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u30356	Your time is up, you're getting a warning, this was no violation of the Rules of Procedure you misused that institute again, but the only thing I can give you is a warning. Here you go, colleague Bauk, is an explanation for the break.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u30357	Thank you, Mr. President. In 1986, the book of Zvonimir Majdak was published, and she spoke of the fate of two sisters of different worlds that go through life on every road that eventually connects. The sisters in that novel are called Martha and Lela, it's interesting that they're from Remetinco, and the title of the novel is Watch out, so I stay innocent. 35 years later we have a performance of this novel here in the Croatian Parliament. The sisters from the novel are HDZ and HSLS, their paths have split around the HGK and the conclusion proposed by the ruling majority clubs, with it as if it echoes the cry of colleagues of Hrebak, "beware that it remains innocent". There's a more direct saying in a people for such phenomena that I'll come back a little later. When they saw this conclusion in HGK, they rushed to the pharmacy for tranquilizers, making sure that their price was about 42 kn and did not sleep all night because of this conclusion. This kind of pampering that is repeated in the performance of smaller coalition partners, when they must be brought to a meeting, disciplined and threatened by the elections, according to the progenitor and the skills, Mr. Hrebaku, we can call them a rooster. And the people’s saying would have an adjective, which I suppose would then read “the breadth. ” You can't be fair and brave. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u30358	We have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure, first is my colleague Bacic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u30359	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague named Bauk has been injured by an officer. 238. The Rules of Procedure, because it offends the common sense of MPs in the Croatian Parliament especially those who have little longer institutional memory, so I would remind him that he and SDP had the opportunity to reform the chamber for 8 years, did nothing. So, the SDP when it's in opposition, then it's huge words, and when it's in power, it's a pygmium act.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u30360	Thank you very much, of course you've been warned because there's no damage to the Rules of Procedure here, but there was a replica. Here you go, colleague Hrebak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u30361	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Art. 238th Insulting MPs at a personal level, I will not comment on a low level of communication from my colleague, I will just ask him if Mr. Vidovic is missing today as he was missing the other day? So much for the Chamber of Commerce on behalf of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u30362	There. That's it. Let's vote now, we've got nothing left. So I'm voting on the next conclusion. The proposed law amending the HGK Act is not adopted. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? A total of 141 MPs voted, 76 for, 4 abstentions and 61 against, and thus concluded that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies. The Club of HDZ Representatives, the Club of HNS Representatives of Liberal Democrats and Independent Representatives, the Club of HSF Representatives and the National Party of Reformists, the Club of National Minorities, the SDSS Representatives suggest that the Croatian Assembly adopt the next conclusion. It is up to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to deliver, by 15 July 2021 at the latest, the Croatian Parliament of the Law amending the HGK Act, which will ensure the reform of the HGK system in a functional and material sense and further discharge of Croatian businessmen and the strengthening of their market position. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 140 MPs voted, 76 for, 3 abstentions and 61 against, and thus concluded that it was proposed by representatives' clubs. The report on the effects of the implementation of measures and the Law on the protection of the public against infectious diseases during the Covid-19 disease outbreak caused by the SARS-CoV-2 virus in the Republic of Croatia for the period from 11 March 2020 to 15 January 2021, is proposed by the Government, the debate is concluded. In accordance with the proposal of the home working body, I am voting on the following conclusion: A report on the effects of implementing measures and the Law on the protection of the public against infectious diseases during the Covid-19 disease outbreak caused by the SARS-COV-2 virus in the Republic of Croatia for the period from 11 March 2020 to 15 January 2021 is hereby adopted. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? It voted 138 MPs and representatives, 77 for, 1 abstention and 60 against and thus concluded that it was proposed by the home working body.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u31197	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear MPs and MPs, the amendment is not accepted. Since the same is prescribed in Art. 115. The Nature Protection Act, which states that a park of nature allows for economic and other activities and procedures which do not endanger essential features and roles. Finally, we note that in the area of the proposed PP "Dinara" there will be no exploration or exploitation of hydrocarbons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u31198	I thank the Secretary of State, you can return. And fellow Bull, you can show yourself, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u31199	Thank you very much. In this amendment, I wanted to seal the proposal for a decision to declare the PP "Dinara" that there is no more research, drilling, mainly hydrocarbons in this area because we know that the government of the RG has made it possible, but has already made a decision to drill our Dinarids among other things and Dinara. That's why the shape of nature's park looks like it looks, and drilling that European, in Europe and the world, endemic junk that's filled with water, rich in water, I don't think we should allow it. But if we declare the PP "Dinara", then we should ban research and exploitation. And this amendment with an extraordinary insistence on it. Because in addition to what did not enter the PP “Dinara” and, say, Lake Peruca, only part of it entered the source where it also, and now, devasts as e.g. The flat bridge at the Church of St. Rescue at the ancient Croatian church of the 9th century So protecting cultural identity in that area, our pastures, nature, yes. We also have a military polygon in the red country, so that nature park looks like a pipe. So we, when we decided on the nature park, were to protect our resources, the river Krka tributaries, Krka itself, Zrmanja, everything that falls into that part, Krčić, for example. The source also, by the river Cetina, we did not protect the tributaries except in one part... No hydrocarbon research, drilling and oil extraction, so I'm asking for a vote on the amendment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u31200	Please join the vote, the government does not accept the amendment of colleagues to Bulja. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes, so we move to a vote on the final draft of the Nature Park Law Dinar. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 136 MPs and MPs voted unanimously in favour, and so we passed the Nature Park Law Dinar. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Dental Medicine, first reading, P.Z. No. 47, the motion is Government, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. The proposal for that law and 2. Any comments and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? Is something wrong? Well, then please.../incomprehensible/... yes, well. So 21 for Jelacic, okay. So it voted 133, 125 for, 8 abstentions, and that's how we came to the conclusion that it was proposed by the working bodies. Do you have a phone contact with them now? Okay, fine.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32397	Good afternoon, everyone. Please take your seats. Okay, let's get started: - Proposal for a plan to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the EU acquis for 2021. The draft act is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. 172. The Rules of Procedure of HS. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, for family, youth and sport, for the judiciary and for European affairs. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? - Here you go, Mrs. President. State Secretary Andreja Metelko Zgombic of the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32398	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President HS, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Allow me to present to you the Roadmap for the harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis of the EU for 2021. In accordance with the obligations to take over legal property in Croatian legislation, a programme has been developed for this year by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to take over and implement the EU acquis, which is an integral part of the legislative harmonisation plan that is now in front of you. This plan presents complete and timely information to you parliamentary representatives on the legislative activities that the Government of the Republic of Croatia plans during 2021, which stems from EU membership primarily from our obligation to take new legal provisions at EU level into our own, integrating into our legislation. The proper transposition, application and implementation of EU law are primarily responsible for Member States, and the uniform application of EU law in all Member States is crucial for the success of the EU, which is precisely based on the principles of rule of law and relies precisely on the right to ensure the implementation of its policies and priorities in the EU and its Member States. Effective enforcement of EU rules is also important for Croatian citizens because it has a positive impact on their daily life whether it is about consumer protection, transport safety, environmental protection or air quality. So, for example. The new Waste Management Act shall adopt a directive aimed at preventing and reducing the impact of certain plastic products, primarily products for single use on the environment and on human health. Also in the field of environmental protection by promoting the purchase of low or zero-carbon road vehicles, which will be prescribed in the amendments to the Law on the promotion of clean energy and efficient vehicles in road transport, CO2 emissions and other polluting particles in the air will be reduced. This will improve the quality of air in cities and other polluted areas. In addition, the last example, the amendments to the Company Act will need to ensure that companies are fully established via the Internet without the need for the personal appearance of applicants before any competent authority or person authorised to address any aspect of the establishment of a company via the Internet. It is these examples that clearly show that Croatia is making changes in its legislation compared to other Member States to ensure that EU law is applied as effectively as possible in favour of its citizens. It is important to highlight the key role of this high home in this process, which is reflected in the adoption of national laws to take over and ensure the implementation of these EU rules. Plan for 2021. which is now in front of you contains a total of 56 laws that adopt EU rules, these 56 laws are divided into 4 quarters during this 2021. It is important here to stress that work is just being invested in ensuring the effective enforcement of existing EU law is as important as working towards new EU legislation in which the Republic of Croatia actively participates. In addition to this legislative harmonisation plan, it has a preventive effect in relation to the procedures that the EU can launch against Croatia for breach of EU law. In this connection, too, it is necessary to highlight the importance of timely taking over of the EU acquis because in case of delays against the Republic of Croatia as well as against any other Member State, proceedings may be brought before the EU court. Ladies and gentlemen, by presenting to you this plan of harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia, we are indeed assessing how by adopting this document we confirm the effective functioning of the Republic of Croatia as EU Member States and also by promoting national interests as well as through the work and harmonisation of future EU legislation which creates and implements EU common policies. We can say that this establishes an effective and effective enforcement system in order to ensure timely application, enforcement and enforcement of the EU acquis and to provide our citizens with an adequate legal framework and adequate legal protection. Given the key and irreplaceable role of the Croatian Parliament, in the debate, the adoption of legislative proposals, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes the adoption of this legislative harmonisation plan with the acquis for this current 2021. Thank you, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32399	Thank you very much, stay here because we have a few replicas. The first replica was sought by Mr. Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32400	State secretaries, the harmonisation of Croatian legislation with property or EU legislation is more important than that, and the least problem is essentially to pass all these laws, to rewrite EU laws because we are discussing it in the Parliament daily, the issue of implementation, you mentioned the environment. That's what I'm going to talk about, environmental protection, in Croatia absolutely, waste management, see what's going on with it. Look at the questions of the judiciary, see how the judiciary in the Republic of Croatia where judges county in Split are arching and banking with Kerum, simply they accept it, so we simply prescribe here, we pass EU laws, but it is a problem of application. We do not apply laws in Croatia other than what you have an interpreter who overwrites it and we raise our hand here. What about law enforcement in reality? Because if they were to be used, then two-thirds of Croatia would not be forgotten.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32401	Time, thank you, come in, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32402	In front of you, the proposal to bring legislation into line and harmonisation of legislation is also an important step in the harmonisation and protection of the rights and interests of the Republic of Croatia as well as Croatian citizens. Of course, once the House adopts the law, then it becomes mandatory for the government and all other bodies including the judiciary, and they are very much here to conduct them well.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32403	Mr. Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32404	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. State Secretary, we might like to comment on the fact that this plan for the first semester provides for more than half of the legislation to be harmonised, so we have a very big crowd in the first quarter, we see that the organisation of work here in the Croatian Parliament is very inefficient as far as it is concerned, some days we end already at 2 p.m., some of us staying late in the evening, we have a lot of work to do on compliance with EU law and on the other hand we have a very big crowd, so we are already at the beginning. I'm not sure we're going to be able to do it at this rate as imagined by this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32405	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32406	Thank you very much for this comment. In making... plan, we looked very carefully at which laws to deploy into which quarter, the truth is that in the first quarter we have quite a number of laws but they are and are in preparation and ready to refer to this High House and once we start to function well even in these conditions of COVID, I believe there will be opportunities and opportunities to meet such proposed dynamics. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, it is always possible to adopt a law or debate and adopt a few months later. It is very important that we have one of these frameworks so that this House of the High knows immediately at the beginning of the year what is waiting for us and what laws we will deal with during this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32407	Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Mariana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32408	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ma'am. State Secretary, you've talked about some examples, I might point out, because here today on the Committee on Agriculture we discussed the Law on combating the unfair commercial practice that Croatia has adopted, in the meantime the directive has been adopted at European level, and we are now harmonising our legislation, but it is worth saying that certain directives give one wider space not only to transfer what has been adopted in the directive but also Member States have a space recognised their specificities and additionally include certain mechanisms. But what seems even more important to me is whether or not you agree, in fact, in the process of making all these we can say the law or the directive, Croatia participates, which means that we are at the table at which we are being decided, we have an impact on what this legislation will look like, so it is not about copying, but it is about co-creation of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32409	Thank you. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32410	Thank you very much for this question, you are absolutely right, I have mentioned this and during the presentation, it may be good to say once again, Croatia as a Member State participates in the design, harmonisation and adoption of each of these parts of EU legislation, and that is true, we have regulations and guidelines, guidelines when Member States are implemented in a very large way they have a great deal of space to apply those standards, rules that are jointly agreed in their Member State in the way that this suits the legal system itself, some tradition, so if you will, perhaps culture and the behaviour of individual citizens, individual countries. So this document is really a well thought out display before you, and the laws themselves are not a lot of copying, but exactly the adaptation of these standards and the protections that the EU wants to achieve in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32411	Thank you, ma'am. Vesna Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32412	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, do we have to wait every time for the EU to tell us what needs to be coordinated, can't we, for example, start companies online and not tell us the EU? I mean, are we that backwards? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32413	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32414	So, the Croatian Government has already proposed and already there is a certain legislative framework that allows for its creation of companies online, what is a newspaper and what is itself the EU and Member States when discussing this issue, it has itself concluded that it is not in each Member State that full online establishment is foreseen but that it is always very often necessary and some physical arrival for the establishment. And that is why, at EU level, Croatia has also participated in this, so it has passed a rule that will require a full online establishment from Member States, which should, of course, be taken into account that all other protections are in force which will, of course, prevent embezzlement or avoidance of the rules as they were imagined and as prescribed.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32415	Mr. Hrvoje Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32416	Your Honor, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, what is the EU's position, or what is the European acquis on life protection, or are you going to say that HDZ is, in terms of abortion, and what awaits us here?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32417	Thank you, please, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32418	You know, the EU is an organisation that has the responsibility of only those to which it has been transferred by the Member States, so in the underlying contracts and the question as you have said, abortion remains within the competence of the Member States, so there is no standard, some rule that needs to be applied, however, remains in the jurisdiction of each Member State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32419	Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Zgombic Metelko, no more replicas, so far you're free. And does the committee's reporters want to take the floor? Yes, Mr. Hajdukovic, Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32420	Thank you very much, Your Honor. The Committee on European Affairs shall, on the basis of the competences referred to in Article 1(1). 65. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament on the proposal for a plan for the harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis of the EU for 2020 discussed it as a parent working body at its session held on 19 January. The Secretary of State for Europe at the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs has initially explained that the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes every year to bring legislation into line as a basis for the takeover of the European acquis into Croatian legislation. She pointed out that the proposal for a plan for the harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis of the EU for 2021 serves as a means of legislative planning, the taking over of a new legal property of the EU where the Republic of Croatia is harmonising its legislation in parallel with other EU Member States and in line with the deadlines for taking over as set out in the Union legislative acts. In view of the above, the proposal for a legislative harmonisation plan is an effective instrument for monitoring and assuming European law through a process established during the process of joining the EU Republic of Croatia. The legislative harmonisation plan is part of the Government of the Republic of Croatia's programme for the takeover and implementation of the acquis and its adoption confirms effective action in EU membership conditions as well as the promotion of national interests through participation in the creation of common EU policies. After the debate, the Committee on European Affairs unanimously proposed, with 14 votes in favour of the Croatian Parliament, the adoption of a plan to bring Croatia's legislation into line with the EU acquis for 2021. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32421	Thank you very much. There are no other reporters. We move to debate, I open a debate, first of all by clubs, Mr. Hrvoje Zekanovic in front of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32422	Dear Secretary of State, I am pleased with your response and I am pleased that there is no framework in the European acquis that we would have to adapt to protecting lives or abortions because I know where it would lead. But this is more reason to ask Croatia the way it should be asked. To think with his own head and then finally rule by the Republic of Croatia, finally slap his hand on the table, and even though it is a conservative democratic government, let life be protected from its beginning. However, this will not happen and as far as European acquis is concerned, I am sure that soon we will have a change of attitude and I am sure that things will go, that we will also have to adapt to what is agreed on at a higher instance, or what the great players agree on, which will, of course, correspond to the Government of Andrej Plenkovic, i.e. specifically to you. And this will not suit Croatian sovereigns because they will certainly not be in harmony with Christian principles. I must mention here that despite the fact that the EU acquis should not be formally adopted on some issues, we have some other documents that are being re-produced or imposed from the centre of power outside Croatia. I will mention two documents, one document, of course, is the Istanbul Convention of the Council of Europe which we were not formally introduced but we introduced because it was that dictatorship, because there was a threatening e-mail from the commission that I saw, so to Andrej Plenkovic, a few days before he announced the signing and simply, we had to. Just as we had to adopt that global migration compact, it's not from the meaning of the EU, it's from the UN. So, these documents come independently of this legal gain, and we will be sure, given that we are thinking with our own head, since we are not sovereigns still adopt documents like these which, I will, with great certainty, are doing damage to the Croatian people and the Croatian state. Here is another concrete example that brings us European acquis. We have committed ourselves to many things in terms of renewable energy sources thanks to the European acquis, so we said that, here I am now not to say wrong, that by that date we will have so many and so many renewable energy sources, primarily wind power plants or solar power plants. What I didn't know at the time when it was, you should have known, which is that this kilowatt produced from these sources of energy is not profitable, and that the Croatian state will have to very expensively subsidize every kilowatt. Because we have a problem, we have a problem with one kilowatt of Croatian citizens paying the kuna, this one producing 3 kunas, and the Croatian state still paying him 5 kuna. If that's where we're going, if it's a European acquis, then I'm against it, I'm against it. Here's to renewable energy sources, we've accepted some conditions that simply don't suit us financially, which we simply can't meet. I would've figured this out, but I'm gonna do it one more time. Since you have claimed that Croatia has no obligation towards a European acquis, no obligation to protect life from this place, then I call once again on Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic to respect the Constitutional Court's decision and to protect life in accordance with scientific facts and according to what he is even declaring.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32423	Thank you. Now it's Mrs. Devereaux's turn. Ruzica Vukovac in front of the House Movement Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32424	Dear Vice-President HS, the respected state secretary with a co-worker, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. The legislator therefore argues that the adoption of this document confirms effective functioning in the conditions of full EU membership, as well as the promotion of national interests through participation in the creation of common EU policies. As regards the proposal for a plan for repealing the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with a acquis for the EU for 2021. I would like to draw attention to the provisions of the inevitable Law on the assessment of the effects of the rules, as well as to the provisions of the guidelines on the assessment of the effects of the rules adopted by this Government, which are strictly taxed, so that the assessment of the effects of the rules is not implemented in the following cases. Under one, in confirming international contracts, such as contracts, memos, conventions and other acts that form an international contract. And under two, in the implementation of regulations and other binding EU legal acts directly applicable in the area of the Republic of Croatia. However, in the event that part of the content of the draft law is directly related to the implementation of regulations and other binding acts of the EU, and the remainder of the content is related to the regulation of the administrative area covered by this draft, the expert holder will carry out an ex ante evaluation and determine the need for further implementation of the regulation impact assessment procedure. I draw your attention to this because so far we have witnessed too many times that only part of the law is in line with European legislation, and unfortunately that small part is used as an alibi for not carrying out an impact assessment of the rules that ultimately results in illogical, illogical and ultimately administrative burdensome and non-implementable regulations that change very quickly again. Permanent changes in laws and other acts are extremely administratively burdensome by the authorities of the state administration, and create uncertainty for the economy and ultimately lead to a lack of investment. In other words, the country's administrative overload leads to the avoidance of foreign investors, as well as the abandonment of domestic entrepreneurs who seek greater business freedom without the heavy burdens our country has persistently imposed on them. Perhaps some will not immediately see the link between the correct application of the provisions of the Law on the assessment of the effects of the regulations and the current invisible economic picture of our country, so I will explain in more detail. The modern legislative framework supporting the development of civil society must encourage entrepreneurial freedom and ensure the rule of law. The laws and other regulations should meet current times and provide support for entrepreneurial freedoms, economic growth and the development of civil society. The application of the regulation's impact assessment shall provide for the predictability of legislative solutions. It's the basis for the development of society. This is a basis for the development of the market, for creating equal opportunities for entrepreneurship, for the development of different initiatives of civil society organisations, for creating and strengthening social justice and equality with the protection and preservation of the environment and natural environment. The Legislator's mission, in particular to the MPs in the assembly, as well as the legislator, should be to ensure that quality legislative proposals are drawn up in a consistent manner by applying the impact assessment of the rules with an analysis of the direct effects and mandatory participation of the general public. Such a way of making a legislative proposal is based on the appropriate administrative capacity of the state administration authority to analyse the current situation, to find solutions and to look at the direct effects of the law, and on the costs and benefits that this solution brings, and implies the creation of professional analytical bases, the openness of the state administration and the ability of the interested public to advocate their views in the legislative process. And lastly, I will state the findings of the Director of the Government's Office for the Legislatives of Mrs. Zdenka Pogarčić, who says that the application of the rules on the assessment of the effects of the rules on the maturing of a society. In view of all of these, therefore, of these proposed laws, which are within the proposed plan to bring the Republic of Croatia's legislation into line with the EU acquis for 2021. only the Waste Management Act provides for a preliminary assessment of the effects of the regulations to be made clearly and unequivocally speaking about the degree of development or the maturation process at which the Croatian society is currently located. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32425	You, too. Mr. Miro Bulj will perform in front of the Club of Representatives of the Most.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32426	Thank you very much. The best we can see is that. citizens feel the effects of implementing legal acts and standards of European legislation in the Republic of Croatia. I think that when we talk about the 2021 plan, then we need to see what happened to the recent harmonisation of legal acts. legislation in the Republic of Croatia except that we regularly have regulations and directives here every day, and they are discussed, but the question is, what about implementation and what about effects, what are the effects? So we can start here from agriculture. What about the effects of harmonising our legislation in agriculture? Since when do we coordinate legislation with the EU from present negotiations to EU accession, what about agriculture? How much milk do we produce today, how much did we produce the moment we didn't comply with these provisions? These results interest me, the effects on Croatian village and peasants. We're not self-sufficient and less food we produce, more and more food we import. The Corona crisis has exposed all the bad policies towards the EU and those that have been in the European Parliament and those who have implemented and negotiated these policies, the effects are bad. We import EUR 3 billion of food products, and the village is extinct. We have 700,000 hectares of unprocessed land, and out of a million and a half hectares of agricultural land 0.5% are irrigated, and the government programme of Prime Minister Plenkovic says that double irrigation will be, which means 1% of all the irrigation, so much about agriculture, village and peasants that I often talk about, which is forgotten in these implementations and our words and laws. What is in the implementation, which are the effects of the countryside and the peasants, on our farmland unsettledly, what are the effects? What are the effects on workers' rights, do they behave like this, for example? in the EU, as they treat Brodotrogir workers whom Končar has not paid for 6 months, until at the same time he fulfils the obligations under the Treaty on the restructuring of Brodotrogir, where the state has given him money for restructuring, i.e. dedicated money, what are the effects of shipbuilding? I'm curious. When you mention the environmental effects of the environment, we have court rulings, the Black Hill in Zadar. You see the highway when you go, what about it? I was talking here, I was bringing all this junk, I donated it to you with a red drawer, where people live next to that Black Hill, where the waste is this harmful, industrial waste, and the European court says it will punish the Croatian state no one is doing anything. When we talk about the waste management you're referring to the environment, the gas from the vehicle, and you're the opposite of what we're bringing. Last year's decision in front of the state inspectorate and our minister endangers Mr. Coric's environment that from Vrgorac, 120km of highways, old vehicles, trucks, 20 years old. i.e. transporting municipal waste, transporting on the highway, and old cars on oil and jeopardising traffic and transporting garbage from the same sanitary conditions to Vrgorec from the dump site in Sinj. E won't make it. We're saying it right here, and it didn't go away, and I'm standing in front of the truck, and again, not just because of my Sinjans, but because of the Vrgorcans who will double-pay the garbage. Harmful projects such as Mariščina and other waste management centres or the planned Lečevica waste management centre that breaks at the top in Lečevica, where is the karst, di endem, where is the world's unique natural potential, not only a cross like a cross but our water protected them? No, I don't. Why not? So you see at the agglomeration of Sinj that no, you did not withdraw funds from the EU i.e. The funds were withdrawn, funds were approved, the project went, Croatian waters did nothing together with local water and local self-government, but no communication. By 2022. The project should be completed, asked by Croatian waters, local self-government, local water pipelines that the project of nearly billions of kunas does not fail, that the Cetina River does not enter the feces, an open sewerage where it drinks half of Split-Dalmatia County in the perspective of more water use that water from Cetina. Nothing, we're gonna withdraw those funds? I am looking for a meeting as the only representative with Croatian waters they call me, as the only one in the case, by the problem of agglomeration Sinj. Through the centre of Sinj goes the open sewerage, the centre of the Dalmatian Zagora, the largest city in Dalmatia, and this affects the river Cetina through.../incomprehensible/... canals through the Sinj clean field in the river Cetina where they drink water not only Sinjani, Omišani, Makarska coast and even Hvar where our prime minister is from and most of Dalmatia. We have the project, we have the exact papers approved, the amount approved, however, which is why the works, the costmaker did not turn out the way it turned out in the competition, which is why some Croatian waters that are on the project team along with the local water line, the town of Sinj, say where they were wrong, but cannot suffer all of Dalmatia because of this and we are bringing provisions here, and EU funds are 80% secure and if the project of agglomeration is not corrected, a project of agglomeration who knows when we are going to make a sewer. So why would my Son return 20 to the 17th century? Croatian waters also send a memo that they can't receive due to some obligations now in Petrinja because it has exposed their dissatisfaction with the Croatian waters that do nothing, they serve nothing but harras. Why do my Sinjans pay water to Croatian waters? Which canals have been cleaned, let them be numbered, here you are from the village, if you come, when you see Croatian waters, they are all paid. All the people pay. That's what he's asking, that what's going on with the protection of my river Cetina. What about the protection of the river Krka, lagoon, from the factory Tvik which affects the national park of oil and oil enters the National Park of Krka river. But you're doing less of this stuff. What about the judiciary? Is it consistent with Kerum at, at, at Covid this ball, half the county judges at the ball now in this Covid crisis. You know what the biggest problem is that we need to coordinate? Justice, justice, justice, justice, justice. Is the most important bag, not these norms we bring in, their bag is important, or their bag, that I speak in blue. So either we have here, we raise our hands, we rewrite the laws, we find the translator, if there's an app on his cell phone, we translate the law, and we raise our hand. So what now? What are the effects of all these measures on all matters of labour rights? Here is the Croatian Chamber of Commerce because it is legally necessary for it to have mandatory membership, is the legal gain that entrepreneurs who barely survive to pay their workers and craftsmen to pay this mandatory membership fee. That's why we have 2/3 of Croatia empty. Well, she exposed all the bad policies of the crown crisis, all the bad policies. And unfortunately these earthquakes as many as 2/3 of Croatia are forgotten from Slavna, Banovina, Zagorje, Gorski Kotar. What about our resources and our potentials, what about our energy? Why the teleoperator in the Republic of Croatia is not the only tribune building permit, and the biggest profit is in setting the base stations, the biggest profit is in the Republic of Croatia, 42%. Why in the case of a migrant crisis do we accept the Marrakech Agreement, and the Croatian Parliament has no right to discuss it? Why don't we use our legal right to help the military police protect against illegal entry into the Republic of Croatia? Why? Why do we listen to what we will be ordered from Brussels, be it Berlin, be it Paris, be it the Thai fascist who usurps, the friend of the prime minister who usurps our here in Dalmatia and Istria?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32427	Now it's Mr. Gary Cappelly's turn in front of the HDZ Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32428	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. State secretaries, colleagues and colleagues, therefore, the Republic of Croatia, in accordance with its status, shall assume the EU acquis in parallel with other Member States. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its Treaty on the Functioning of the EU. The legislative harmonisation plan is a basic instrument for monitoring EU law implementation plans and since 1.7.2013. At the beginning of each calendar year, the Croatian Parliament therefore adopts a legislative harmonisation plan which is an integral part of the government's programme for the takeover and implementation of the acquis and the basic document in the process of implementing and taking over EU law into Croatian legislation. As part of the coordination plan for this year, as we can see, the adoption of 56 laws that are being taken over and implemented by binding EU legal acts is therefore envisaged. In accordance with the deadlines for their transposition into Member States’ domestic legal systems. As in previous years, the adoption of new legislative acts at EU level will complement the harmonisation plan, so as to ensure timely notification by the European Commission of national measures to transpose European legislation into the Croatian legal system. The 2020 legislative harmonisation plan is now purely an example and information containing 62 legislative measures. During 2020, the assembly passed 44 laws that are in line with EU law, while the plan contained 45 proposals in 2019, and the assembly also passed a total of 44 laws, which show that the assembly continuously contributes to the transfer of the EU acquis. It also plays a preventive role in the prevention of infringements of EU law which can occur because of the ineligible and incorrect transposition of the Directives into the domestic legal system, as well as because of incorrect application of EU law, therefore, as a whole. Any irregular and unfair transfer of European acts therefore potentially exposes the Republic of Croatia to proceedings before the EU court, which, in practice, represents the conduct of demanding procedures in the finals which may also have significant financial consequences for the Republic of Croatia. According to the Commission's latest report on the implementation of EU legislation, therefore, it is about the 2019 report, published in July 2020, which confirms that Croatia is working well with the Commission in implementing so-called Union law and that Croatia is taking over and applying the EU acquis in which it is now participating as a member of the EU. So, we are also expecting reports from the Commission on the implementation of EU law for 2020, and then there will be a safe opportunity to discuss some of these things as we have, what we have, and how much we have therefore integrated into our legislation and what measures all this has been and, of course, that we will be able to discuss exactly the topics that my colleagues and before me have discussed, how much we use the European Funds in this coordination and all this together. I wouldn't go into detail and repeat again how much resources we'll have to withdraw, how much investment thanks to joining that big family. Croatia had only been able to say in tourism that over the last 4 years that we had 60% more investment than before when we were not in the EU because, of course, some benefits are certainly felt, and of course we have to be self-critical, and also some situations that happened during the Corona and that last some countries were, and we also came up in some situations that in certain regulations we try to save certain situations in the economy, so we applied some things that may not have been in line with EU legislation at that time, but with a certain temporary situation, if we can say so, that the temporary economy is kept at some level of survival and labour and help that we have provided, but later through this aid that we have received through then the first step of assistance that we have received for the situation that happened with Covido-19 it was quite important and it is understandable that we have not been able to save these regulations, and I say they were not, or were, in fact, in fact, were contrary to some of some of the laws that we have adopted by all the countries which were temporary and of course were also temporary and the Member. It is also of course that some critical tones that have been given in this situation are Covida-19's behaviour, that there has been no identical treatment of certain countries in terms of opening borders and some similar situations that may not be in line or in part in accordance with some EU laws, but given the situation in which we have also found ourselves and may not have been in some kind of harmony, but also when this aid came we are not and we will not complain. Therefore, we need to understand the situation in which we are, so the Croatian legislation is being harmonised, but of course we will follow both in what way and whether we are doing what we also accepted in time. Consequently, the HDZ Club will support the adoption of a legislative harmonisation plan for 2021. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32429	Thank you, too. It is now in front of the SDP Representatives' Club, Mr. Domagoj Hajdukovic. If he takes notes after that, he's single, so he can go on.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32430	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'll save you a cleanup of the Croatian Assembly. My colleagues and colleagues, the full harmonisation of Croatian legislation with the acquis is the basis, it was a basic prerequisite for EU membership, so the topic was much more represented in the pre-accession period than it is now. However, harmonisation of legislation is a permanent obligation for each EU Member State, and since European legislation is constantly changing and developing, and of course new legislation is adopted, we must continue to bring it into line. The legislative harmonisation plan is an instrument that Croatia has kept from the pre-accession period, which is a basic tool for monitoring and planning the takeover of European law into the Croatian legal system. In the conditions of membership in the Union, the legislative harmonisation process mainly refers to harmonisation with the Directives of European legislation which prescribe the objectives to be achieved by Member States, but leaves the way in which those objectives are achieved to Member States. So despite the popular claim that everything is now dictated from Brussels is not so much a team anymore that we ourselves can influence decisions in Brussels, but it is now another story that I will mention later. So in many ways we can decide how we plan to achieve certain goals. Other legislative acts of the Regulation and decisions shall be directly applicable in the Member States and shall not be authorised to transpose them into the national legal system or are authorised only to adopt legal and sublegal acts establishing the conditions for the implementation of the Regulations and decisions. Otherwise, EU law is governed by national law, and its implementation is monitored by the EU court. I am pleased to say that the Committee on European Affairs took part this Wednesday in the procedure for the appointment of the candidate of the Republic of Croatia as judge and independent court attorney at the EU court, and we unanimously supported Professor Dr. They're synapsing Rodin and Professor Dr. Tamara Chappet as candidates. I am very glad that at least when we talk about European law we send troublemakers to Brussels i.e. in Luxembourg and there will certainly light our cheeks. Now, as far as the proposal ahead of us is concerned, it is a document that provides for the adoption of a total of 56 laws in which Croatian legislation is aligned with European legislation. I have to say here that the plan is quite ambitious, especially since exactly half of the 56 contained laws are foreseen for the adoption of not in the first half of the year but in the first quarter of the year. Here I must once again draw attention to the Presidency of the Croatian Parliament and the esteemed Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament that because of the extensiveness of this work and the very many laws that will be found on our agenda from the domain of harmonisation with the acquis of the EU we make our time as effective as possible in the session and that some days do not end early in the afternoon, and others remain late at night, that they must convene extraordinary meetings, etc. Respecting the fact that a plan for harmonisation can be changed and adapted over the year, however, it should be said that its usefulness as a basic tool for monitoring and taking over the European acquis depends on its transparency. Although significant progress has been made in this respect in relation to the pre-accession period and it is commendable that the proposals for legislation to be taken over by the European acquis are now rarely adopted in an emergency procedure, and as previously a rule, it is nevertheless necessary to highlight certain difficulties primarily from the perspective of monitoring the implementation of the coordination plan. Take, for example, the plan to bring Croatia's legislation into line with the EU acquis for 2020, last year was, of course, very specific, and it is difficult to talk about as someone, as a good example, but when it comes to the coordination plan, the pattern is the same as previous years. The 2020 harmonisation plan included a total of 62 legislative measures, of which 36 were planned for the first quarter, so again more than half. During the same period of 2020, the Croatian Parliament passed a total of 44 harmonised laws, and for example 45 laws were planned in 2019 and 44 with P.Z.E. marked. However, if we analyse the adopted and harmonised laws in 2020 and compare them with the legislative harmonisation plan for the same year, we actually come up with the following data. Of 44 passed laws marked P.Z.E. These 30 are listed in the coordination plan for 2020, 4 are the backlogs of the 2019 plan, and 10 P.Z.E.'s adopted in 2020 are neither listed in the coordination plan for 2020 nor in that for 2019. Furthermore, the 15 legislative measures set out in the 2020 plan have been transposed into the 2021 plan, including 7 of the 8 legislative measures envisaged for the adoption in the fourth quarter of 2020, and 10 legislative measures under the 2020 plan are in the process of adoption. As I have pointed out, it is understandable that the coordination plan is changing, but we call for better communication with the Assembly when it comes to these changes, especially since harmonisation of legislation is a process that is not dependent on daily policy opportunities, but on deadlines at European level. In any case, we have before us a document that represents the framework, the spine of what we will talk about in the Croatian Parliament and work in this year as regards harmonisation with the EU acquis and as such, the SDP club will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32431	You want to proceed individually immediately. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32432	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will explain why I wanted to take an individual word because I wanted to highlight a few things that I think are important, and above all it concerns the role of the Committee on European Affairs in this process, but also in general in the work of the Croatian Parliament. So, as I mentioned before, the Committee on European Affairs is the home working body in the process of adopting a legislative harmonisation plan as well as monitoring the overall process. I must therefore point out that it does not turn out to be always critical, that it is very good that our existing law on the relationship between the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia in European affairs Parliament can and should, in my opinion, participate significantly in the processes in the EU despite the fact that the majority of decisions, so if we exclude the European Parliament happening at the levels of government and, in fact, it is the Government that represents Croatia at most meetings. The role of the committee in this regard has changed significantly with regard to the Committee on European Integration, which we had before EU accession, which was the primary task of harmonising legislation. In the pre-accession process, Croatia had an obligation to adopt European legislation without being able to influence it. As a Member State, Croatia is equally involved in the adoption of this new European acquis, and this is precisely the basic task of the Committee on European Affairs after our accession. I am pleased that in this meeting, MPs and working bodies show an increased interest in European affairs by attributing myself to a better understanding of the fact that European business is no longer a matter of foreign policy, but rather internal affairs concerning all the working bodies in their work cycle. I would also take this opportunity to point out that only harmonisation of legislation remains a one-way process. At the moment when some of the laws taken over by the European acquis, Croatia can no longer affect the content of European acts whose provisions are taken over into our legal system. However, in the phase of the adoption of these European acts, the Croatian Parliament also actively participates through the Committee on European Affairs, which, in cooperation with the home working bodies, examines Croatian views on European documents and empowers the Government to represent these positions. What is the plan of harmonising legislation for the takeover of European acquis is a work programme to consider the position of the Republic of Croatia, which brings the Committee on European Affairs to participate in the adoption of a new European acquis. I would also like to call once again from this booth all the working bodies and representatives of course who are members and members of these working bodies to be involved in the process of adopting the 2021 work programme and to continue to consider the views of the Committee on European Affairs. I have just signed memos today that will go to all the working bodies, so I call on both colleagues and colleagues who chair the working bodies, but also other interested representatives to certainly get involved. Finally, I would also mention something mentioned by my colleague Bulj before me, which is an assessment of the effects of European regulations, European law and our membership in the EU. We as government representatives can ask at any moment, maybe that's something we should think about in the foreseeable future, but I believe that if we were to assess the effects they would generally be positive. Unfortunately, we could be much better if there were more initiatives, understanding and far-sightedness on our part, and hopefully there will be more in the future. Because as I said in the debate before, a lot of things the EU continues to leave to its Member States to determine and decide on the ways in which the objectives will be set. The goals are the same, but often exactly the methods that we will be able to achieve these goals can be chosen by ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32433	Thank you, too. Stay, you've got a few replicas, ma'am. Renata Sablar Dračevac's first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32434	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Minister Hajdukovic, are you satisfied with your position, means the Committee on European Affairs, or how much government accepts proposals coming from parliamentary benches or directly from your committee? Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32435	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32436	Thank you very much. Well, I'm happy to tell you because our opinions we bring to HS and commit to the government, so he's not arbitrary whether he's gonna listen to them or not. And not only that, but I am pleased to say that in this meeting there are many, many more working bodies than in the past speaking from experience as a long-standing board member, in fact a lot more working bodies have an interest in considering the position of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, meaning proposals or draft views. So what I see and where I see actually and our role today in the debate above all and among the MPs then, of course, also in the interested public, is that HS can in any way influence the positions of Croatia or our government in Brussels, meaning in meetings where parliamentarians do not actually have interference, but have an indirect impact through the Committee on European Affairs, or the parent working bodies in HS.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32437	- Mrs. Crescent. Andreja Marić
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32438	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, you have stated an interesting sentence in your debate "no dictatorship from Brussels" and "the Republic of Croatia can participate equally in the adoption of legal acts" and that is where you listed the role of the Committee on European Affairs. Yesterday he was on the menu of the Law on Electronic Media and there was a lot of controversy over certain sentences and articles of the law itself, and the minister's reply was that it was all over the table and that it was in line with the EU directive. Now my question is, how do we reconcile on the one hand our desire and the needs of the Republic of Croatia with this EU directive, to what extent can we actually deviate from their directive, so that we do not turn out to follow a dictatorship from Brussels? At the end of the line, it is in our interest that the Republic of Croatia should be applicable laws that will satisfy all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32439	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32440	Thank you very much, colleague. This is actually a great question. I would not agree with the minister here because I do not know we may have read different directives, but some intensities, intensities of the directive I say or these mentioned by me are not what we have copied under quotes into our law. It means what the EU calls for, some parts we have taken over, but some of course not. It is very easy to say for daily policy purposes that, that this is bad Brussels, you know, they all impose on us, all the unpopular measures we need to take, it's someone else's fault, in this case, the evil EU. At the same time, however, we forget that we can very much influence the adoption of these directives, the adoption of all in fact, we can participate directly in the legislative processes in the European Parliament through our MPs and MPs and that we need to make alliances within the EU with other Member States in order to achieve our objectives. What are our goals and interests we often don't know, and I think that's where the core of the problem actually lies.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32441	Mr. Davor Ivo Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32442	Thank you, Vice President. E co-worker Hajdukovic might be a note. It is, of course, the Commission as the guardian of the acquis that will, of course, assess whether one Member State has really transposed the directive as needed or not, and then there is a whole legal procedure if, if that is not the case. However, I wanted to point out once again, and also on the trail of this debate of yours, that after, especially after the Lisbon Treaty, national parliaments, as well as HS, have the opportunity to influence, and even if they think that a legislative act or a proposal for an EU legislative act should not be adopted because it violates the principle of subsidiarity, it can be included, it can stop the process. Therefore, I think it requires much greater responsibility for us and for the parliamentary representatives to follow European legislation.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32443	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32444	Thanks a lot, buddy. Of course, it is the commission that will decide in the end if the question arises whether we have transposed a directive well into our legislation. I've been giving my vision of things, of course, which is quite legitimate. And yes, I agree with you. I was somehow under the impression that, at last, it matures the awareness and representatives in our responsibility because national parliaments are well involved in what is happening at EU level and we through the Committee or COSAC conference of the Committee of National Parliaments dealing with European issues, but not only, but not only in this way, but also by considering and discussing opinions or proposals of the Government of the Republic of Croatia's opinion, we can directly influence our positions in the council or in front of a body that is one of the initiators of legislation with the European Parliament at European level. It's something we need a lot more attention about, a lot more attention in the future, and I couldn't agree more.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32445	Thank you. Mrs. Mariana Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32446	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You spoke to your colleague Hajdukovic about the legislation that this year is the subject of our consideration on the Committee on European Affairs, which should be brought into line with EU rules and you yourself said that the positions that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is preparing and coming to the Council are both the subject of our interest and our debate. I want to know how you see here, in fact, in the process itself, maybe more activity and the Committee on European Affairs itself, and we as representatives, so that this influence that MPs can have, and in my opinion still do not achieve it in the right way, can be increased. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32447	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32448	Thank you very much. I have to tell my colleagues that the board you run, the Committee on Agriculture is one of the committees that takes this task very seriously and which is good because the common agricultural policy is one part, a very large part of the multiannual financial framework and the Union's own policy, and it's good, because I'm sure we have something to say here. So far, the agenda depends primarily on the person who runs the board. This may be a practice that should be changed, more opinions should be put on the agenda, because, as I said, the representatives themselves must be aware that we can influence, that we should influence, and that we should be what Parliament should be means, the government's supervisory, supervisory lever, or that our opinion is also heard in the formation of our views in the Union because we were citizens and elected. So we cannot leave all responsibility to Brussels alone and say that everything comes by dictatorship, we can influence, we need to influence and I believe that in the future we will have an even greater impact as parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32449	The last replica, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32450	In the Republic of Croatia there is a seed law in the process where it wants to be destroyed. Autochthon seed i.e. prevent it from being on the market without being modified, it's in the process. It is the application of European legislation, rather than encouraging farmers. This government refers to a law on harmonisation with the EU that seeds are automatically banned on the market, which is dangerous, bad and the issue of national interests because domestic OPGs and peasants should be promoted as a brand rather than just talking about agriculture and destroying our village and peasants. It is a message to all the ruling here, you have no right to ban the indigenous Croatian seed, but rather we must encourage it. it must be a Croatian brand. [[Intruder: Thank you time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32451	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32452	Thank you, dear fellow, for this law I have spoken and even spoke to the Prime Minister about this law, and I absolutely agree with you. So it's about bringing it in this form of a law that will hardly damage our farmers, but also citizens who I think have the right to enjoy indigenous varieties, organically produced, healthy varieties because we all know what is offered in shopping centres and what is the quality of that fruit and vegetables. You also talked about your colleague's impact assessment when you discussed it, but you know what's devastating. What is more, our minister of European, foreign and European affairs, but I also stress that there is no idea, but he literally has no idea. So when he was in this home we discussed he remained found he didn't even know what it was about. Now, that's defeating that the minister who's supposed to run that resort doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32453	Thank you, no more replicas, thank you very much. Now it's Mrs. Mariana Petyr's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32454	Dear Mr Vice-President, the respected State Secretary, Mr Minister, MPs and MPs, it is important to stress that the EU has its jurisdiction, and Member States have their jurisdiction and therefore the principle on which the EU is formed, which is confirmed by the Lisbon Treaty, and concerns proportionality and subsidiarity, is very important to respect. Of course that is where it is happening and there have been attempts by individual institutions, as well as by European Parliament representatives trying to push some of their ideas that are significantly intruding precisely at violating this principle of proportionality, the subsidiarity that I have mentioned. It seems important to me today to say and to remind that by joining the EU itself, Croatia has gained the opportunity to be a co-creator of the legislation adopted at European level and it is not insignificant at all. Today we are sitting at the table at which we decide on our proactiveness and the preparation of the arguments can tell lobbying or good co-operation with other Member States in the best way we can protect our country's Croatian interests and interests. This is important because almost 70% of the legislation adopted at European level should also be incorporated into our legislation. It is not about any copying but it is about harmonisation, and many directives give us the opportunity to extend this legislation in the way we think it will best protect Croatia's interests. I'm just going to say how important it is that we're at the height of the task and we react when we need to react, and for that we need to be prepared, which means awake and very working. I will say, for example, when I was just elected to the European Parliament as a representative the first to appear on the agenda was the question so-called question. historical criteria for which Croatian children, i.e. Croatia, as a state, could not receive EU subsidies for healthy meals of milk, fruit and vegetables for their school children. I have worked a year of course with the support of other colleagues to change this legislative framework to prove that we as a new member cannot be applied historical criteria because the historical criterion implies that this year you can get what you used last year, and we were not a Member State before that, and fortunately I succeeded in doing so today in Croatian schools, our primary schools free of charge with the help of European funds from our OPG healthy meals of milk, fruit and vegetables. What is also very important to mention is that the first legislative exemption Croatia received in the EU was through my amendment, it was about the management and management of forests that we know that a large tank of CO2 where such a proposal and a reference were put in place for our forest management to take into account the period when we had the Homeland War, which means that we were not able to objectively manage the forests, and we know that today some areas are below mines, we were occupied, and in that sense I was looking for an exception for Croatia that I managed to elect, and based on this Croatian exception, I saved hundreds of millions of euros and allowed us to continue to rule our forests. Also, when the issue of the Russian embargo came up, you know that we are out of the market, especially that is where our apple and mandarin producers died, I asked them to be included in the damage list published by the European Commission, and I succeeded in that. Our apple and mandarin producers received four years of compensation from the EU because they lost their market, and they shared their products with free social institutions, Caritasu, homes for older and powerless, kindergartens, schools. So it is very important that we be present, that we be informed that our demands are well prepared and that we influence at the moment when this influence is needed. In addition, it should be said that no one as a country prevents us from recognising in our territory, in our territory in different areas that legislation needs to be amended, we should not wait for some EU legislation to be passed so that they adopt a directive that we can do so ourselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32455	Thank you. You have your replicas, Mr. Rade Simičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32456	I thank the vice president of HS. Dear colleagues. Here is by harmonising the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the EU's currents, I believe that this can only be an advantage to us, and not a lack. And since we are now EU stakeholders we have some legal experiences that are positive we can implement in the content of EU legislation. However, on the trail of what has already been said, my colleague Bulj mentioned what kind of application is, can we really do what was put on paper and do what we can to begin to believe in these legal gains? We are Croats proud people, I see no reason why we should not do what has already been written and brought into the European Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32457	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32458	Thank you very much. My colleague Simičević, so I have somehow read from your presentation that you are also calling for responsibility, means that we must be responsible, it is not enough to come up with good legislation, it is not enough to transpose EU legislation into our legal system, but in this implementation we must be effective and effective, and this means first of all that we must all be responsible. We here also have the opportunity to recognize problems, to influence that some solutions are being incorporated into legislation, and in this sense here each of us needs to make a contribution because we are chosen by the people here and we need to protect the interests of that people.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32459	Mr. Shashin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32460	Your Honor, Vice President, the Honorable Parliamentarian. I am interested specifically in your opinion on how much the current legislation of the Republic of Croatia is in line with EU legislation in the agricultural production segment, or more specifically, when the law on unfair commercial practice adopted by Croatia has been adopted since 2017. be in line with the EU Directive, because we know that this law has a significant, very significant impact on the overall state of agricultural production of Croatia because it regulates relations between producers or farmers and buyers or trade chains currently operating in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32461	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32462	Thank you, Comrade Shashin. Well, certainly that law is in the parliamentary procedure, we discussed it today on the Committee on Agriculture, which means that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has introduced provisions of the directive through the Ministry, but I must say that we have actually adopted our national legislation before the EU because unfair commercial practice is early Croatian agriculture cancer and should be contained. In the implementation of this law, we have seen that there is still plenty of room for improvement and I am glad that the ministry has also accepted the suggestions of our Committee on Agriculture, but also of professional associations. I expect that we really get a quality law that will protect the interests of our agricultural producers, but that will offer such solutions to be dissuasive to offenders because we know that there are quite a number of offenders in that segment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32463	Mr. Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32464	Thank you very much. My colleague Petir, not mentioning your enormous efforts in the European Parliament, I would just say here, the Republic of Croatia has entered the EU imports never again, 3 billion euros in food products. Now at this point we have 700,000 hectares of raw agricultural land, never less produced in the Croatian village. The Croatian village is weakened, we must work on not what is in the procedure of banning indigenous Croatian seed but to encourage the development of domestic OPGs on... and to make it a brand in Europe on the tourist state, not that this government is pushing and most of them to ban the indigenous domestic seed that destroys our domestic producers, that they must modify it. How? According to Monsant's principle of GMOs or glyphosate, it must be treated. Let's protect the native indigenous seeds and get up. against a bad policy against the Croatian village. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32465	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32466	Thank you, colleague Bulj, for your replica, that I advocate the protection of small agricultural family economies for that I am famous for doing so all the time through my political work in all the positions I have been in. It is not true that the Seed Act will prohibit indigenous seed, it does not say anywhere in the law, some procedures have been put in place that I believe will make it difficult for small agricultural holdings to produce food from their indigenous seed meaning what we are talking about that they inherited from grandparents and, in that sense, I have already held talks and addressed my observations. I believe that I will also get the support of the Committee on Agriculture because, as the environmental agricultural producers are excluded from these provisions of the Seed Act, as I believe, because you have read this law since you speak of it, you know that those who are on the variety list also do not enter the provisions of the restrictions means the processing or some other activities That's how I'm gonna look for small farmers. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] producers so that it is clearly written. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32467	Thank you very much. You have one violation of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32468	Thank you very much, thank you very much, Mr. President. The Honorable colleague, Petir, injured Article 238 where she should not be interested in what I read and how much I read, but only she as the chairman of the Committee on Agriculture has sided with those who are at this point in banning indigenous seeds that are modified to be on the market. The exact definition because I'm talking to some people isn't just yours. victim in the EU and the European Parliament... [[Thank you very much.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32469	Thank you very much. It was a replica. Thank you very much. I'd give up, since the warning of the day has to be in and you give a warning if you're replicating the replicas. Will you? You want a breach of the Rules of Procedure? Here you go. [[Intruder: Yes.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32470	The Honorable Vice President of the Croatian Parliament was injured in Article 238 because my colleague Bulj is false. He brings them out because he never reads a single law, but he flatly assesses what someone delivers to him, and it is mostly about topics that are very important and very interested in the Croatian public. So no one will ban indigenous seed, nor would I ever vote for it, nor would I allow it, nor was it proposed. It's true that there are some misunderstandings in the law we're looking for. to get away. [[Intruder: Thank you very much, time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32471	Unfortunately, I have to give you a warning. Another breach of the Rules of Procedure, please, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32472	Thank you very much. My colleague Petrir hurt Article 238 where she speaks falsely, constantly tells the truth, and she doesn't need to be interested in what I read and don't read, and your efforts in the European Parliament have had terrible effects on the agriculture and promotion of Croatian seeds so that now in the proposal on the market we won't be able to have indigenous domestic seeds, and esteeming your efforts as a volunteer in the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32473	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32474	That you had read anything, that you had read anything, that you knew there was no directive at European level.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32475	Sorry, no, it wasn't a replica you can't answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32476	Yeah, good, good.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32477	It wasn't a replica, it was a violation of the Rules of Procedure, but it was a replica, so you have another violation of the Rules of Procedure Mr. Bully, knowingly of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32478	There's another warning, isn't there?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32479	Second warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32480	That's the second warning because it's been telling lies all along.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32481	Mr. Shimičević I will give you, I will give you a breach of the Rules of Procedure but you know what follows if, it can only be replicas now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32482	Thank you, Vice President. The gentleman has injured Article 238, and we also ask you to protect us from the communication dictatorship, here the gentleman is false and has nothing to do with the agenda point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32483	That I had to give you a breach of the Rules of Procedure, because I protected you because I gave you a warning. So it's a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Let's move on Mr. Davor Ivo Stier, of course the replica doesn't hurt the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32484	Thank you, thank you, Vice President. You spoke to your colleagues about how national parliaments and the Croatian Parliament can also include when they think that European institutions have violated the principle of subsidiarity, to stop such a legislative act. I think the European Affairs Committee has a key role to play in this. It's good to be led by an opposition representative, we used to have it during our negotiations, it later went to some other practice, now we've returned to that position, but of course it's important to control from that position, control the government, but also to know how to establish a good cooperation, not to use it just for some political points, accounting with the minister, etc. I think it's important that we have this good cooperation. Why? Because then only if we do so will we be able to protect our national interests in the European process when a European legislation is adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32485	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32486	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Stier you are absolutely right, it is important that this role of national parliaments is important and I would like us here and through our Committee on European Affairs, but also as representatives to use these opportunities individually. This, of course, requires increased engagement, but that is why we are here, the people have chosen us to protect the interests of the people, and from that aspect, we must sometimes be more alert because we know that the interests of all Member States are not always equal in all areas, that there are some particular interests that may prevail if not taken care of. I therefore agree with you that this role of the national parliament that it plays in the adoption of European regulations and monitoring should be taken seriously and attached to work.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32487	Now it's my fellow Highdukovic's turn, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32488	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Petyr, here I may have succumbed a little bit to coloquiality when I said copy, of course I didn't mean to do it, but to embezzle in our legislation. But I would like to underline something else that you have also mentioned is a debate where we as national representatives can and should participate in the things that are being made and decided in the EU. I remember from my experience that the strongest and biggest debate on the Committee on European Affairs was on the position of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on a directive that would introduce a single time or time-calculation for all of Europe. So, where there would be no more winter and summer time, the trivial thing about what really matters about the EU and how much we can influence it, we need to use it more and we need to raise awareness first of all among colleagues and colleagues, that it is our right but also our obligation to me, and I am glad that in this conference, much more attention is given to that.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32489	Thank you. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32490	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The fellow Hajdukovic, of course, has many topics that are extremely important and that will reflect on Croatia and our citizens, and therefore it is important that each of the representatives take the pain in this debate, I have looked at these 56 laws that are very important to us on the agenda, if we can say so, for this year, there is a whole spectrum of financial laws, laws that touch markets, trade, environment, agriculture, traffic, rule of law, so these are very serious topics, not underestimating any other topic, but if I may translate what you wanted to say, that sometimes very important topics fall into another plan and do not get enough public attention in front of those topics that may be intrigued and that are more interesting to the media but these are all very serious laws that are before us and I believe that we will pay attention to them.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32491	Now, let's go to the replica of colleague Vukovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32492	Thank you, Mr. President. So, colleagues Petir, looking at the situation at EU level, over 500 million people are guaranteed the right to appeal and we are witnessing situations in Croatia where the Constitutional Court actually had to order the Ministry of Agriculture to amend the provisions of the Agriculture Act in order to allow our farmers the right to appeal. However, we now have a new situation, the Law on Agricultural Land is changing and the right to appeal to our farmers is not once again provided. Do you think we should even our farmers with all the other farmers and give them access to the court? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32493	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32494	Thank you very much, Your Honor. My colleague Vukovac, you know that I think not only should we equate our farmers but that we should protect them further, in that sense I have given more initiative than to think that I should prescribe the quality of agricultural products and, for example, it would mean that I translate, that everyone understands what I'm talking about, to prescribe that fresh meat is what came from the slaughterhouse to the store within 48 hours, thus protecting domestic production and not having, for example, unfair competition that we are witnessing and that is why we are passing the Law on the control of unfair commercial practices. In any case, whenever it comes to any administrative and legal procedure, it is logical that there is a possibility of appeal, and it is good that it has been incorporated into the legislation that we have discussed so far in this Xth Assembly's assembly when it comes to a package of agricultural laws but also those on aquaculture, and also through the Committee, we will address all the shortcomings that possibly exist in the laws that the Government is proposing.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32495	And let's go to the last line, Comrade Dretar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32496	Thank you very much, Mr. President-in-Office. Your Honor, ma'am. As a member of the EU since 2004, Petir, Slovenia has made one recommendation almost with the legal force by which their thermals and large hotel complexes have the obligation to take the products of local OPGs and thus provide their guests with fresh and natural food and small agricultural producers, fast and easy to place. Do you intend to support such a support for the Republic of Croatia as president of the Assembly Committee on Agriculture? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32497	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32498	Comrade Dretar, you knock on the open door, that's something I stand for and that we get both the guarantee from both the Minister and the Prime Minister that they will primarily go through the procurement for public cuisine, so public institutions, that's the first step. We succeeded because I suggested it to the board and the minister accepted that it was immediately implemented for the areas that were affected by the earthquake because our farmers there really need urgent help and the market, and we know that we also have a military in Petrinja, a penitentiary in Glina, that in all these areas we have hospitals and kindergartens, schools, so public institutions through which we will help our farmers to place their products and that is also part of the strategy "from field to table" that Croatia wants to implement, it has built into its strategic documents and our goal is to help our producers in the placement of their products through these short supply chains and to offer consumers quality domestic Croatian food. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32499	We are now going back to the previous point that we had interrupted, and will individually speak the respected representative Dalia Oreskovic. She's gone. She's losing her right to speak. Finally, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Honorable Representative Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32500	Thank you very much. Here, in the end, only as regards harmonisation, I also said on behalf of the club, harmonising Croatia's legislation with European legislation, where unfortunately in the Republic of Croatia, it is only a matter of copying regulations and directives and effects that are unfortunately visible. The secretary of state is aware of that. We can start with agriculture. Here's me, I've mentioned it through replicas, we've been brought into the phase that 700,000 acres of raw agricultural land, we've only got 3 years. a moratorium for the sale of agricultural land to residents until legal and physical, legal and natural persons from Croatia can buy agricultural land in Hungary. The Hungarians will be able to buy agricultural land in Croatia, which says that in the Republic of Croatia we are still simply copying legislation. The effects, in my opinion, are terriblely bad because if the effects since we've prescribed the legislation of the Republic of Croatia, and we don't bring it into line with reality in the Republic of Croatia, then we wouldn't have had 60,000 in the last 10 years. OPG's people who were involved in dairy production would not have come to 4,000, would not have imported EUR 3 billion of food products, would have been self-sufficient on this market, and not even a step further than our potentials we have, here I always mention my end, but I also mention other parts, here is Slavonia, and it is unimaginable for me to import so many food products, milk, eggs and we have the conditions to create it all. We've got a tourist season, it's supposed to be our export. But why, because our legislation says it can't right now, here's the proposal, in procedure, indigenous seed, domestic, old seed, instead of being our brand in the EU, we forbid it on the market, that we need to modify it according to Monsanta standards, probably that controls everything. Because GMOs need... Like I once said, the pomidor you have, after two years, you can play tennis with it, no smell, no taste. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it's much harder and more quality to play tennis than the ball itself, more durable in the way it works. I personally gave the law banning the sale, transport, cultivation of GMOs and trade in the Republic of Croatia, why? To be an eco-protected area, organic food, to promote domestic seed, domestic production, domestic livestock production, and not our fields have grown into weeds and ambrosia and import from other countries. If that's why we joined the EU, here's the example only, as far as labour rights are concerned, has it been possible for someone to behave as they treat the workers of Brodotrogira Danko Končar? He buys hotels in Medenno, these same shipbuilding workers build hotels for him, he doesn't pay them, regardless of the contract with the state that takes over the shipyard that he has to meet the conditions and purposely spend the funds the state has given him. What are the labour rights? What's the relationship to the peasant? What's our justice system like? What kind of justice is this, that's the basic question. You also mentioned exhaust gases around here. Well, I mentioned, waste management is catastrophic. I said, from Vrgorec, the Minister's decision, the garbage is being transported from Vrgorec to prove to the EU that we have closed one dump, municipal waste is being transported to Sinj, 120 km in one direction and in the other direction, with an old car. A utility car with diesel leaks literally live oil after it. We're jeopardizing traffic on the highway, an old vehicle, so what are we contributing to? What's our CGO plan? Here's an example of the Black Mountain, I told Zadar, at the Benkovec, the European Court punishes us with a verdict, I warned you about that. So, the protection of our rivers, here are the agglomerations of Sinj, noting, where the guilty and the city of Sinj and the waterway of the Cetina region are but exclusively Croatian waters. Why don't we look at the protection of our rivers in this direction? We have now declared PP Dinar, we have not protected the main tributaries of the Krka and Cetina River, which power the entire Dalmatia, both Sibenik-Knin and Split-Dalmatia County.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32501	Thank you. Now, finally, on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, the respected representative, Domagoj Hajdukovic, will be here.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32502	Thank you very much, Your Honor. In just one small segment, I would like to relate to my colleague Bulja, he should have had an individual discussion, so I was hoping to be able to replicate to him, but just to get his argument to the Seed Act, which has been mentioned here many times today, only some of the varieties that are about to disappear if we adopt such a law are werewolf watermelon, trogiar florists, Istrian purple onions, Sibenik plum, Neretva apple, and many others. So we need to be smart here, but it has nothing to do with the harmonisation of legislation. I wanted to say, finally, I hope that this debate has served as an encouragement to all MPs to be more actively involved in considering the position of the Government of the EU Council of the Republic of Croatia, that several working bodies will decide to take part in giving opinions on the proposed opinions that have been regularly addressed by the Committee on European Affairs, and I hope that we will thus produce a much better quality position that the Government will defend in Brussels. So once again, we don't need to keep moving the ball to Brussels, there's a lot in our hands, we just need to activate and use the tools that are available to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32503	Thank you. Here is the final in the name of the House Movement Representatives Club, and the esteemed representative, Ruzica Vukovac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32504	Thank you very much. So, prompted by the debate and by what we have heard from fellow MPs who have mentioned the Seed Act, I simply believe that I should take the opportunity to take advantage of this final presentation in front of the National Movement Club to point out to the State Secretary and Associates themselves to certain very awkward situations that are now emerging in my opinion. So, we are here harmonising with the EU's liquids, so we are trying to agree legislation that does not significantly deviate from what Europe considers to be of certain quality values, but when we speak specifically of the Seed Act, I must say that the provisions of the proposed law are in breach of the International Treaty on Genetic Resources for Food and Agriculture, which Croatia signed and ratified in 2009 and also of the provisions of the UN Declaration on the Rights of Peasants and Other Persons working in the rural area, or in rural areas which Croatia is also obliged to respect, in particular, in Article. Article 19(2) Declarations are provided: Farmers and other persons working in rural areas have the right to protect, control, protect and develop their own seed and their traditional knowledge’ and paragraph 8 of that article states must take all steps to ensure that seed policies on the protection of plant varieties and other laws on intellectual property rights, certification systems and laws on the placing on the market of seeds respect and take the rights, needs and reality of farmers and other persons working in the rural area. And thirdly, the adoption of a national seed law at this time is not in line with the decision of the EU Council, therefore no. 2019/1905 of 8 November 2019, which is a relatively fresh decision, therefore requiring the Commission to submit a study on Union options to update existing legislation on the production and placing on the market of plant reproductive material. So all of this leads us to conclude that we must react on time and not allow certain deviations from the direction Europe is going. And also, for the end, I would just say that the EU level of over 50% of seeds is actually produced on my own family economies. Why would they threaten me with that part? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32505	Thank you very much. This concludes the debate on this point, and we will vote on it when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32507	Report on the work of the Croatian Memorial and Documentary Centre of the Homeland War for 2019 is submitted by the Croatian Memorial and Documentary Centre of the Homeland War. We will vote on this item on the agenda in accordance with article. 4th century. 4th century. The Rules of Procedure of HS. In accordance with the proposal of the home working body, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The report on the work of the Croatian Memorial Documentary Centre of the Homeland War for 2019 is accepted." Who is for? A colleague of Lerotić, after this well. Who's asking for it? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 131 MPs and MPs voted, 90 for, 41 abstentions and thus concluded that it was proposed by the home working body. The National Council on Science, Higher Education and Technological Development for the period July 2019-July 2020 is now responsible for the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development. And we will vote on this agenda item in accordance with article. 44.st. 4. The Rules of Procedure of HS. But before that, a colleague called Lerotic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32509	Thank you, esteemed president of HS. Namely, the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development has denied prior approval for conducting an integrated study of pre-graduate and graduate medicine at Juraj Dobrila University in Pula. I think it is very important to point out that the University of Juraj Dobrila in Pula has met all the legal requirements for which it has received a positive assessment of the Agency for Higher Education in order to revive the Faculty of Medicine in Pula. Unfortunately, despite the fact that there are even additional conditions for cooperation with the Faculty of Medicine in Rijeka and Split with KBC in Rijeka and Split, these decisions are unfortunately illogical and absurd when we know, I repeat, that all the legal conditions are met, when we know that a new General Hospital is being built in Pula, when we know that a new Medical School is being built in Pula and when we have a health staff deficit I think these decisions are being repeated, illogical and unfortunately absurd. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32510	The apartment is approved, but I'm calling for an article. 293.b and we'll keep working. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The report on the work of the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development for the period July 2019-July 2020" Who is in favour? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 129 MPs and MPs voted, 80 for, 45 abstentions and 4 against, and thus concluded that it was proposed by the home working body. Report on the operation of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families for 2019. The applicant is the Management Board of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families. We will vote on this item on the agenda in accordance with article. 44.st. 4. The Rules of Procedure of HS. In accordance with the proposal of the home working body, I am voting the following conclusion: "A report on the business of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families for 2019 is accepted." Who is in favour? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 127 MPs voted, 88 were for, 39 abstentions and thus concluded that it was proposed by the home body.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32512	We are now going to the next item, which is: - Final proposal of the Law amending the Law on the implementation of the law on money, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 45 The proposal is the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives and the SDP's Club of Representatives on the basis of Article. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia 172 The Rules of Procedure of HS. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent manner. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article. 197. Rules of Procedure. The applicant has submitted an amendment pursuant to Article 1(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. 202. The Rules of Procedure have become an integral part of the final draft law. The government delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget and the Committee on Justice. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32513	Dear colleagues and colleagues. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. About a year ago, more or less, the whole world faced the fact that we are facing a serious crisis, a crisis that only the oldest ones who can still remember the situation the world experienced with the pandemic of the Spanish flu more than 100 years ago. The situation we looked at in science fiction movies, reading in books that talked about various disasters, actually a situation that was around all the time, but I guess that's how it must be, always believed that it would happen to someone else or somewhere else. However, the covid virus pandemic, due to the covidal covid-19 virus, hit the whole world, and hit Croatia, we talked last week about the health aspects of the crisis and, of course, that the priority in dealing with the health crisis must be to combat the health consequences of the crisis. In any case, our priority must be to preserve people's lives and health. And last week we talked about that we from the SDP not only are we not against the closing measures, it would be two-faced of us to be against the closing measures when we proposed and advocated them two and a half, three months ago, we're for them, but we're asking to make some things that will track them. The first is, of course, the light method that we have been talking about since October last year, the method that will take place in certain measures, but also binds them to certain objective figures with some kind of evaluation where people can know in advance what awaits them if there is a deterioration or improvement in the health situation. The government does not accept this, unfortunately the government does not accept and reciprocate that they are daily valorising the situation and therefore making some decisions, some measures, some ideas. Dear colleagues and colleagues, it does not work in a way that unfortunately today in Croatia and in death we cannot be equal, and this is not good for respected colleagues and colleagues. However, the second aspect of the health response to the coronary crisis, or what this coronary crisis brings, are serious economic consequences, a serious deterioration of the economic crisis in the Republic of Croatia. And that crisis then has something else to do with it, and that is an overall rise in poverty. All those who deal with public health will tell you that poverty is one of the greatest risks to the health of the nation, for the health of society because it affects a large number of people. People can't properly feed themselves, people can't warm up the places they live, for God's sake people are left without a roof over their heads, people can't afford treatment, people can't afford treatment, people can't afford drugs, people are suffering because of it, not only emotionally because of the situation they've been brought into without their own guilt, but they're suffering and physically because their health is getting worse. That is why, with the search for clear criteria and the light methods, we in the SDP, in the opposition are looking for something else, and we are looking for adequate compensation measures that will help this country overcome this crisis. These compensatory measures are a whole series, one part should go towards the economy, unlike the neighbouring Slovenia, Croatia does not have an adequate package of measures to help the economy, there is something, but it is not an adequate colleague and colleagues. Today, the ruling majority of the one proposal, perhaps not so brutal in the financial amount at issue, but certainly symbolic, and it was about abolishing mandatory membership in the HGK, refused. He didn't suggest anything else that should help our entrepreneurs, but good. It is the responsibility of the ruling, and it is up to us to point to it, and it is up to us to continuously propose other measures that we believe will help the economy. However, the failure of the economy has further consequences. The people who worked are out of a job. People who were expecting employment, especially seasonal, because all those who follow the growth and decline in the number of employment in Croatia, know that employment in Croatia is extremely seasonal, so people are left out of work, and others who expect employment, which, in normal circumstances, would come from the nature of things, can't get to it. It's a reality. That's the reality that needs to be answered. There are no compensatory measures towards the economy. They're not adequate. Then let's see how to help the citizens. And right here, right now, at this very moment comes this proposal, which was referred to by the SDP and the Green-Left Coalition, which is a proposal on the extension, the respected colleagues and colleagues, not from the introduction, because this moratorium has already been introduced, but about the extension of the moratorium to the performance. The ruling will say, obligations must be paid. It is a mantra often served by both the government and Plenkovic and HDZ, and I must agree with that mantra because the obligations must indeed be paid. But I'm asking you, how is the government appointed when it comes to the situation that it cannot pay its own obligations? That's when the government takes out a loan. It's in debt. Is that what citizens who are out of a job can do? No, I don't. So there's no bank that's gonna give someone who's out of a job and lose their credit to settle their daily needs, and they're gonna pay him back, when? One day when you might get a job. It doesn't exist. The state may be in charge, however, of our citizens and citizens. When they ran out of work, no. And it's not populism, it's a fact, it's a fact that anyone who wants to watch see it sees it. Okay, so one method that the government has available to citizens and is not available to citizens. Let's see what the bank does in other situations. She can't be in charge, and in the case of drugs, you remember a few months ago when she couldn't pay them, she went off to negotiate with the majors and beg to be delayed. Praying that large-scale drugs against her don't launch executive procedures that they've had every right to, with a simple explanation, look, people, we can't pay for it right now. We don't have the funds. And now I'm asking you, why do "obligations have to be paid" apply to citizens and citizens who have lost their jobs, and the same message "obligations have to be paid" don't apply to the Republic of Croatia? I don't understand that. And I hope that today's debate will be the ones that will try it on for me, and then hopefully, and I can explain it. However, such discrimination, inequality, call it whatever you want, in a democratic and solidarity society must not exist. And that's why, I'll do it again, let's go with this bill. We're going with this bill of law to help those who don't have a job, who are out of a job, who can't get a job, who have no income, to survive until the moment when this crisis, and I am deeply convinced that I am not sharing that opinion alone, but with all of you who are here in the assembly today. Vaccination, we certainly hope, but we can see that this vaccination doesn't work as well, as quickly and as effectively as we expected. I asked the minister last week and the answer was clear, Croatia has no plan B. The EU has screwed up, Croatia has not worked on plan B. We will wait. These days new vaccines come in a far reduced number, but the fact is that the fissure won't come as fast as we expected, and the question is when will the recovery begin? I hope it starts with the tourist season. But I don't think at this point no one can be 100% sure. That is why, in addition to this law, we have proposed one amendment, and by this amendment, we are asking that the date until when the moratorium will apply is clearly defined. Instead of proposing from the law that the government itself determines the duration of the moratorium, this amendment predicted that the moratorium would last until 30 June of this year. Why? Because we were already able to get government power to introduce a moratorium during the debate on the executive law. However, the government did not use that authority. For 2 months, the government of the Republic of Croatia, and that is clear to say, has legal authority, with its own decision at any time without question, to introduce a moratorium to implement and assist citizens and citizens of this country. And the government doesn't do that. And now I ask you all who are here, but all those who listen to us. Is the economic situation today after the year of the crown crisis, at a time when we are not sure when this crown crisis will end, better or worse than the one that was in 4. mesa.? If it's not worse, then colleagues and colleagues, at least it's the same. And then we agreed with joint work and action of the opposition and the ruling, we made a decision to introduce a 3+3-month moratorium because we knew it was good, because we knew it was right. And I'll come back one more time and say yes, obligations must be paid. But also, yes, Croatia is a social state. A social state that should worry about the social status of its citizens and citizens, a solid state in which it must help those who are weaker, who do not and cannot, under objective circumstances. And before I give my word to my colleague Bencic, I will send a clear message to the government. You're right, you have every right to disagree with this bill, you can call it populist, you can call it whatever you want, I don't care what you call it. But if what we're proposing is wrong, suggest something else, give an alternative, give an alternative and don't call the opposition no initiative, no suggestions. Look at what is proposed in HS and you will realize that the irony of the fate of the opposition is the one that constantly comes with concrete clear and better suggestions and you do not have to adopt them, but give an alternative. If the moratorium is to be applied or the moratorium on loans that we will also be discussing soon are not an answer and are not a good solution to what it is. But accept the fact that there are tens of thousands of people in our society who have lost their jobs, and at least so many who will not be able to get a job in the next few months and will not be able to meet their obligations. It's our job to help them, we made our proposal. If he is not well, your obligation is to give his and we will support him because our firm belief is that at a time like this, any proposal is better than none. Thank you very much, and I give my word to my colleague Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32514	Thank you. Here's an esteemed representative, Bencic, will take advantage of the rest of the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32515	I'm going to start by talking here about the topic directly at this point of 230,000 citizens of the Republic of Croatia, potentially and much more, and here we have as many of us left in the assembly as 20, 23, because it's Friday, because it's Friday. Some may have been paid today, so they won't bother with the sad fates of 230,000 people she wasn't, and they won't have any of it. But I'll start with something else today, I'll start with one big victory we witnessed this week, literally defeating David against Goliath because there was a lot of David. I will begin with the victory of the Franak Association and the victory of all citizens of this country who are 10 years old. They claimed that the banks had deceived them and that they had the right to return what they had subscribed. I remember the whole process from the beginning, and I remember the menacing of many parliamentary representatives, political options, experts and experts over the idea at all to question the model that ended tens of thousands in debt slavery if not hundreds of thousands of Croatian citizens because the debts must be paid because you yourself have not read the contract well, because you have not been better questioned. These were arguments that were made between the others here and everyone who said that were wrong and this week it was confirmed. Why do I start with that? Because the same argument and the same logic looks at the economy and society is why we have 230,000 blocked. The arguments are their own fault, they didn't read the contracts well, why they were in debt, namely my favorite argument most of these costs are on telecommunications with these debts up to 10,000 kunas, so what they spend on the phone. And they have some cheeks to say that at a time when I can't go to school without the Internet, I can't go to school, so I can't exercise the basic human right to attend primary school or high school classes, and you're telling people why you're spending on the Internet, so that you don't spend on the Internet won't be blocked. So, what I'm saying is, if the verdict in the case of Franak and the fight against an ex-Alexic who's been saying it here for years and I'm sorry that he's not here anymore, if it hasn't taught you to look deeper and that what you've accepted as an economic dogma isn't what leads this country and these citizens into prosperity, then I don't know when you're going to learn. For this reason we gave this proposal, I know that the 6-month moratorium, the additional moratorium on top, but also the moratorium on loans to some who move only inside that economic dogma sounds terrible because the debts have to be paid, that they have to pay, but let's look at the structure of these debts, let's admit it, and that's what your colleagues from the Ministry of Finance will tell you that still the biggest part of the debt refers to the debt of up to 10,000 kuna. Very often these debts start with several hundred kunas, due to tight interest, they end up on thousands of kunas and people can't pay them off. When someone owes it up to 10,000 kuna, it's not ordinary debts, he didn't buy himself a villa or a Mercedes, and I don't know what, because he didn't pay for the electricity, because he didn't pay for the water, because he didn't pay for the loan war maybe, but that loan war is for the apartment he lives in with the kids, it's not obsess, it's not obsess. Of course there are those. But what we have to ask ourselves here is whether because of those who have fewer left behind in debt slavery and indeed not on the brink of existence, but below the minimum of existence all those who have more and who are not guilty of ending up in that position. And they're not guilty because they can't work for a year because of the pandemic. They are not guilty because a quarter of the population of the Republic of Croatia is located in an area that has been hit by 2 devastating earthquakes, a quarter of Croatia, the population is in the area of people. And we have to debate here at all on Friday afternoon when no one else is gone and no one is watching to see if we should extend the moratorium on purpose or put a moratorium on loans like some other neighbouring countries did. And why did they do it? Because they realized in time that the longevity of this crisis and the consequences that it's going to have that we don't see at all, we're going to see them for half a year, a year, and in the next decade. That they're so far-reaching that it's not possible to go back to the old one, that we need a new vision, that we need to think out of the box, that we need to think about how we're going to get 230,000 people blocked back into the economy. People who are blocked are running from the regular economy to the gray economy because of course they'd rather work for cash on their hands, so at least they'll get some of it than they're getting a salary from which there's nothing left. And the basic thing that was our request is to put a moratorium into place until we pass a law of conduct that will be fair both to the debtors and to the debtors. Believers. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32516	We have on both of your exhibits a whole series of replicas. First to the esteemed representative of the coat of arms, the representative of Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32517	My fellow coat of arms accepts this proposal because people in the Republic of Croatia examples of Brodotrogira workers are not to blame for not having a six-month salary, and they are excluded from electricity, water has to do, are not guilty nor are they able to hire their employees, nor are the businessmen who are imprisoned by the companies due to this epidemic. Of course, in the last term, we have accepted proposals from the ruling, of course, that my entire opposition has proposed a moratorium on top of it, but a moratorium on interest and on loans this year because people can't primarily entrepreneurs and our ordinary citizens can't repay those loans, and banks are solvable. And in order not to be here something vague the first measure made by Slovenia, when it was a pandemic, was a moratorium on interest and loans while the pandemic was going on. Because these are circumstances where they are neither entrepreneurs nor citizens nor workers, but they are guilty pandemic. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32518	The answer of the representative of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32519	Dear colleague Bulj, let me remind you, but also the public, especially colleagues and colleagues from the ruling majority. Eight to nine months after the earthquake, sitting there in that building of Ina in Šubiceva, we reached a 100% consensus on this. However, when the law was passed where we noticed that there was a mistake and only the financial claims were covered, we in the opposition initiated them not to submit a proposal but to direct contact with the ministries because there was no time to get political points to expand to those tasks that go on permanent incomes to the employer, that all employees would be put in the same position. We worked together for the benefit of the citizens of this country. I am only interested and I would ask the ruling to answer me what has changed because the economic situation has not improved. What changed, where did that will go for help? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32520	The next replica of the respected MP, Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32521	Dear counterpart Grbin, 18,000 of our entrepreneurs, businesses, crafts currently do not work in Croatia, thousands of those with reduced incomes are reduced salaries for workers, some jobs are gone. Many seasonal tourism workers have failed to find a job for falling into tourism and the whole situation. What do you think, or what do you think, by ruling out what citizens will pay their debts from, we have the headquarters and the ruling who have denied them the right to work, disabled their profits and now the people with reduced incomes, now our citizens who do not receive should pay back their debts and should pay the astronomical prices of the performance, where is the principle of proportionality that stands in the Constitution? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32522	Honorable representative of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32523	An esteemed colleague easy to measure, where's the logic? That's what I'm asking you. Just look at the example of the loan. If no moratorium is introduced on loans, many citizens will not be able to pay them. What's gonna happen? Banks will have to take appropriate action against them or sell those debts. Then they'll go into forced payment, then the price of real estate will fall again, then many others won't have money to pay back, and here we are in a circle, and then the crisis is no longer just health care, it's no longer financial, the crisis is now a pardon, it's not just economic, it's a crisis now and it's banking. And then we'll get out of it and ask God when. And if a moratorium is introduced on the loans I'm also going to discuss we won't let that get avoided, the banks won't have as bad, the state provides compensation measures for bank liquidity, people have money to spend, the economic, the whole cycle of the economic cycle is growing. And people at the end of it all have money to pay back... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] But that's the logic that doesn't exist here. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32524	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Lalovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32525	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A respected colleague of the coat of arms two or three days ago, the CNB published data on bank balance sheets. And what actually shocked me was the state of the deposit of Croatian citizens last year. Only last year, a part of Croatian citizens saved me 12.1 billion kuna. 12 billion kunas in the year of discharge, in the year of crisis, in the year when most citizens were at 4,000 kuna, in the year when they fought, when there was no tourism etc., citizens' deposits grew to 12 billion kuna, and if we take that deposit concentration that 1.5% of Croats have about 80 billion kuna, it shows that the crises affect the decomposition of society, that the crises in this society have affected since 2008 and that's where they created this huge decomposition of society, and imagine what this crisis is yet to do that we can't see coming out of it yet. And that's why I support this proposal of yours. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32526	The answer of the representative of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32527	Dear fellow Lalovac, allow me, first of all, to congratulate you. Not on what you just said, even so, but let me congratulate you on the courage you had as a minister, when you were ready to make a responsible and difficult move in favour of Croatian citizens and citizens. The Constitutional Court's decision a few days ago culminated in the process that began in 2012 by amending the Consumer Credit Act adopted by the SDP Government, which also passed through the Law on Conversion, which you were author, father, so to speak, and which led to many Croatian citizens and citizens living better. And look out for the wonders, nobody paid for it. Why? Because the banks have already charged everything they have to pay the citizens back. So why do I congratulate you now? Because on your example, I want to show how courage and responsibility can lead to good and good The results for everyone. [[Thank you. Next replica...]] That courage you had I now ask Minister Maric and others. [[Intruder:... is the respected Hajdukovic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32528	Please, let's stick to time.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32529	You got it. Thank you very much. So, buddy, first we have to demystify something. We heard the prime minister say that this opposition is hopeless, that there are no suggestions, that nothing concrete is happening, here's another proposal, one in a row, there's a lot of them on the agenda. But you were talking about the moratorians on top and the fact that the Government with one regulation, a piece of paper can help a lot of citizens. And I want to ask myself rhetorically here, I can't ask you, you're not a member of the government, how do you expect them to move so small or how can they not make such a small shift and not be able to make and save people from poverty in a much more active way? What am I talking about? Dozens of factories in Slavonia are closing, and most often because of the failures and bad decisions of the government. Sugar, Meggle, the milkers will be in trouble tomorrow, someone else. The government has done nothing to allow farmers, producers, industrialists to work.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32530	Thank you. Honorable representative of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32531	Dear colleague Hajdukovic, you're right, but it's ironic and something else. When the government makes a decision to free the citizens of Bania from paying directorial costs, it is normal and expected. Nota ben, we support it because it's normal and expected. But when we from the SDP indicate that there are also those in the area of the city of Zagreb who still live in containers and that they need the same kind of help, it is populism. When we all make a decision on the moratorium at the end of the fourth month together, then it's good and expected, and so there's no confusion, that's good and expected, but when we're looking for it today, it's populism. So what you said is a serious problem of double criteria. But for Mr. Plenkovic's grades, I don't care. And it's going to hurt in the future because if I cared about them, I couldn't do my job, and my job is to propose, persistently, stubbornly, regardless of the refusal by the ruling ones what I believe can help citizens and citizens of this country, it's my job and my job.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32532	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32533	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague, 31.1. of this year, 100 thousand were less blocked than on 30.11.2016. I am saying this for the reasons that you know that, from 2016 to today, he has taken a number of measures precisely to improve the situation and the situation and the blocked ones by this government. Last November 28th, the amendments to the laws exempting all fees from the application came into force. Also, you know that 2/3 of the average net salary in the Republic of Croatia is excluded from the performance. So let's not manipulate. Not all of them, all the receipts of the perpetrators that are being carried out, and precisely by the measures of this Government, have been made by these amendments. On the other hand, we have believers who are also worth this crisis and who are in a difficult position because of the crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32534	Thank you. We have a response from the esteemed representative of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32535	Thank you, dear colleague Jelkovac. That is why we are looking for other compensatory measures for the economy. That's why we're looking for other compensatory measures for the economy, and before you talk about the number of blockeds, remember that the executions after the end of the moratorium are at the end of the 10th month. They're going down further, so this number you said didn't include everything, especially the ones that went later. But that's good. Dear colleague Jelkovac, this is just one of the proposals to help our fellow citizens and fellow citizens. I will repeat, the proposal that we adopted all together in the 4th month and which was not at that time controversial, and the economic situation is now no better than it was in the 4th month. Last year. It's not. There are more people without a job, more people who can't get to work. That's why today we need what we did in the fourth month. And that's it, it's so simple. A little help to our fellow citizens and fellow citizens, which is why no one will fail.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32536	The next replica is respected MPs Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32537	Here, first of all, let me say, of course I welcome the proposal. It's about extending the moratorium to loans. But I have a question, what if in some fictional scenario that proposal was adopted, which will be after 3 months. This problem won't go away, these people won't be employed if they didn't have a job, they won't have income unless they're among the 1.7% your colleague mentioned, whose wealth has grown by more than 11 billion kunas in banks, etc. And what I think is good is what the SDP proposes at the Zagreb level, why don't you suggest it at national level, which is therefore the write-off of the electricity debt. As far as I'm concerned, so this is the SDP's proposal for Bandic to write off electricity debts we have the largest number of debts meant for municipal purposes, for electricity, water, gas That would probably be real help. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32538	The answer of the esteemed representative of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32539	My dear colleagues, I'm sorry, but I'm going to have to correct it in order. So we're not discussing a moratorium on loans, we're discussing a moratorium on top. As for the SDP proposal, the motion to write off debts or help from the state or the City of Zagreb concerns people from the City of Zagreb who still live in containers. Unfortunately, we still have people living in containers that got a power difference at the 12th month of over 4,000 kuna, they sent us those bills we saw. Imagine living in a container, you have 1 salary 5,000, 6,000 kuna and you get a difference of 4,000 kuna. These people can't pay for it, they can't pay for it without help. We asked for it to be written off. Look, what's his name on Tuesday they were in for, they were against Wednesday, but my God. However, as for what we have later and here, one of them is a change in the order of reckoning. So the change in the counting order that will change the way interest, costs and principals are paid when paying each war to allow people to... [[Thank you very much.]] [[Speakers speaking at the same time do not understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32540	The next replica will be through a video link between respected advocate Romana Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32541	Thank you, Vice President. The Honorable Proposer, and here is a representative of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, explained that the bill cannot be accepted. The delay in enforcement under the Law on the implementation of the fines was extended by the basis of the legal authority until 18 October 2020, after which the stalemate ceased and could not be extended. Further extension of the congestion with the implementation of the mandate would not permanently facilitate the position of the perpetrators should also take into account the protection of the interests of the creditors. How do you comment on this argument as a reason to reject our proposal? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32542	Thank you, dear colleague. That's what you say when you say something.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32543	Can I give you the word "respectful colleague of the coat of arms"? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32544	Excuse me. Thank you, dear colleague, what you've read is when you have to say something, so you say only so much to say, and you don't believe it yourself. So the moratorium can be introduced in several ways. One is by decision of the Croatian Parliament as it was done several months ago. And like we did in April, so we can do it in February. The constitution hasn't changed as far as I know at least I haven't noticed, the basis for making such a decision is the same and it exists. So you can. But there's another way. The Croatian Parliament passed such power to the government by law. Today, if the government does not want to accept the opposition proposal for some reason, the opposition proposals are not accepted here, nor are they the best in the world, if it does not want to accept the opposition proposal, the Government can call a meeting today and, on the basis of the powers that all of us MPs have given it to introduce a moratorium at any time. So the legal basis exists and if there was then When we passed on government powers and then God exists to me now. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32545	We now have a replica of the respected representative Bencic, and it will be appointed by the respected representative Tomislav Tomašević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32546	My colleagues Bencic [[I'm sorry.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32547	Here's a colleague of Tomašević's.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32548	So when we proposed this proposal, these two clubs also spoke very clearly that we do not think that we should not pay debts indefinitely, nor that the moratorium should last indefinitely, but we also spoke not only because of this social situation and the economic situation and the health situation, but also because of the framework for enforcement that is provided for in the Executive Law which is inadequate. And we were talking about that we should extend the moratorium until we get a new executive law that will regulate all of this that this superficial law that we later passed, which 20 and I don't know the seventh amendments to the same executive law didn't regulate. So if there's anything you can say about what should be in the new Executive Law and why we need additional law on why we need a moratorium on the loose.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32549	Dear representative Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32550	Thank you. So what we're looking for is what was even in the electoral program and we can also do the green-left block, which is to make essential, root changes in the way actually in the very, whole executive procedure. One of these things is a requirement to prevent long-term account blocks. You know that the largest number actually of people who have been blocked have been blocked for more than a year. So we have people, and that's a large number of people who have been blocked for 2, 3 years. Now, what's the effect of that on the economy? So someone who can't repay their debts, and I repeat again a large number of them is up to 10,000 kuna, who can't pay back for 3 years that debt is evident that he can't pay it back that way and under those conditions that we set. And what are the conditions? It's the fact that their interest is being raised, that you can't pay off the principal first and that while you're blocked, so as long as you don't pay off, you're blocked, So we want the bills unblocked immediately after 30 days that someone is unable to pay the debt. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32551	Does the Government's representative want to further explain his opinion? Thank you very much! Thank you very much. Does the Government's representative want to further explain his opinion? Yes, Reverend Stephen Curai. Here you go. Thank you very much to my colleague Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32552	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear MPs and MPs, first of all, allow only the introduction of opinions, so the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes to the Croatian Parliament not to accept the Proposal for a Law amending the Act implementing the implementation of the law on money with the final proposal of the law, as here today is before you. The two basic reasons were, first and foremost, more normative than the second formal-legal reason, this amendment, which the applicant submitted, in fact, which became an integral part of the new proposal, which actually changes the proposed Article 1 to two additional paragraphs, because that law provided for the possibility of 3+3 extensions which expired on 18 October. In fact, formally that we voted here today in the original proposal, it could not be feasible because something cannot be extended that has expired. Namely, the distinguished representative of the Grbin said that amending the Executive Law really gave the government the opportunity to react at any time and then this model legally and proposal is no longer necessary, the way in which we reach the moratorium on the ground. This is about this essential part, or formal legal part that I was obliged to say, but remains essentially the essential part itself. The above-mentioned amendments to the executive law have further facilitated the position of the perpetrators even if I can personally say that they can never be easy on that side and no one can say that it is easy for him, don't give God to anyone, in a way that has significantly expanded the range of receipts that are protected from the performance. Food benefits, suitable rewards for workers, such as Christmas, regression, jubilee awards, journals, maritime supplements, union social support, students' awards, students' awards, etc. I have to mention, for the sake of public interest, it is primarily protected through the Institute of Protected Account. The protected account shall be opened at the request of a citizen who is a user of a protected income and who is subject to a charge on cash or threat, which is very important, so it can also be prevented. As regards the amounts mentioned, Art. 172. The implementing law provides for receipts which are entirely excluded from the exercise, i.e. up to the amounts to which they are not considered non-taxable receipts while they are subject to the provision. In 173. of the same law prescribed restrictions in the case where it is carried out on a salary, or another permanent monetary example, so, as mentioned, if we speak up to an amount equal to or above the average salary, maximum, what remains on the protected account is 2/3. If the amount is smaller, then we're talking about a protected portion of the 3/4 income. Of course, if you don't cross this 2/3 average salary, and 3/4. So it wasn't looked to leave some of that minimum, of course, no, we can debate whether someone with 2 children and 4 family members is enough if they have a salary of 5 thousand kuna, whether it's enough 4 and something thousands of kuna, 250, or a little less, 3 and 750 for life, of course we'll all, I believe it's not and that's not, but 3/4 is, I mean, this ratio that's somehow, let's say the most acceptable thing about heights. In addition to those restrictions on the performance, it is prescribed by the provisions of Art. 173, I would also like to draw attention to the fact that these receipts are completely excluded from the exercise in order to enable every citizen to live a decent life,... As regards receiving the basis of the Law on maternity and maternity support, one-time cash support for the newborn child and which is paid by the HZZ, which are also fully excluded from the exercise. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm saying this more for information to our citizens who I believe, that what kind of things they should know if they're being threatened by the exercise and if you don't even give God if they're in this unkind situation. Also, fees for temporary incompetences, i.e. prevention of work due to the use of healthcare, are also excluded from the performance. Now, a fellow respected representative of the coat of arms mentioned a scoreboard of Covid. Here we could talk about the traffic lights, I'm thinking the same analogy for the executions. On the day of April 18, when the first moratorium came into effect, it was related to 244 865 perpetrators. Of which 234 587 consumers and the rest of natural persons, something over 10 grand, for 16 billion principals and 6.3 billion kuna interest. On October 31st, so 12 days after the moratorium ended, there were 247 270 consumers in the blockade with a total debt of 24 billion, 17.4 major. And since that date, a decline in the number of blocked consumers has been seen. So we come to 31.1., mention the number of 239 957. If we're looking at it with March 31st, 2020, so before lockdown, it's 13 043 less blocked. A colleague mentioned Jelkovac, a respected representative, 100 thousand less than 2016. But we've only been watching these last year. Why do I say traffic lights? By amending the law, at the end of November of last year, the Executive Law was given the opportunity to react without delay. Based on what? Based on exact data. Based on the traffic lights of its kind, which indicate that the situation of the blocked, the amount of the principal, the number of debtors, etc. is moving. As for the above-mentioned heights of the debt, and certainly if in the next month it would come and because of this succession, the application of the execution in 3. let's say in 3... to be able to react immediately. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why don't you react now? Because that's all we're postponing, something that needs to be paid. That puts us in an unfavourable position for those who pay their debts because of what happens? If you disable one part of the charge to the creditors, they calculate it in their product price. This means that they are increasing or dropping charge from, say, 97% to 87%, they will calculate those 10% in the price and all the others will rise 10% in price. That's what we need to think about. So it's not the easiest thing to say to us and to me here, let's give it to people regardless of what we have for the couple who leave, sign a contract with a teleoperer, get a phone for the kuna, then sell the second day for 7,000 and then don't pay their wars. There are such, but we should never exempt individuals and create the whole rule, there are also those in the opposite, but we have to think that with all of them there are some... there are also mentions of the believers who then go someone not paying others and going into a vicious circle. As for the height of the 103,204 circle, there's a debt below 10,000 kuna, that's 44% of all. When we look at 10 to 100,000, there are another 43% of citizens with an additional 100,000 kuna, so 87% of our citizens who are blocked have a debt below 100,000 kuna. And the total debt balance of those first is 2.3% of these others is 21% of the total 16 billion and 900 million. As regards the type of financial sector, 35% of credit, factoring, insurance companies, of course, of the highest credit 30% of nearly 6 billion, according to the central state and local self-government units almost 20% or 3.3 billion, and then all other creditors go. As for the manual, most of them almost over two thirds of 68% more than 360 days behind, and up to 30 days up to 4.7% or 10.800 consumers. The mean is 60 to 180 days, two to six months of them 33,000. So we have the data we're tracking, and it's precisely based on this data that decisions should be made, not based on impressions, not on some projections, and what we all feel is that it can be because we're only looking at what's the ultimate goal and what we're going to get with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32553	Thank you very much. And almost everyone for the replicas reported to your presentation, so the first replica will be respected by MP Bencic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32554	So when we suggested this, we looked at the numbers and we watched the announcements of how much the performance would go in the first wave of charge. But that's not my question. My question is to explain to me how you think that the people of the families whose salaries fell at best to 4,000 kunas, if they get the maximum they get, can't they work right now to cover their own obligations? Would any of us here if our salary fell to 4,000 kunas? And what are the measures to help these families? The second question, when you say how much of the income is excluded from the performance, are you aware that the median salary in Croatia is 5,500 kuna and what remains for people after the part that is allowed to complete is enough to survive the four-member family?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32555	The answer of the esteemed Secretary of State Curray. Please, colleagues Bencic, so don't always exceed the time, try to be collegiate with others. Anyone can do it and do it over and over again, it's not right. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32556	Thank you, Vice President. So the more or less question in another situation the same, but again we come up with an amount of 4,000 kuna of 5,500 three quarters is 4,000 kuna cca and now you ask someone who has 20 if you could live with 4, probably the answer no. If you ask anyone who has 3.5, could you live with 4 he would say yes. Unfortunately, these others are the most and enough would be enough to say, not subjectively not subjectively unindulgently to me to talk about other people's fates from this position that we and you are here today. So we all know what our incomes are, everyone's been made public, and we've all lived and I lived when I was doing the same thing with 4,000 and less kuna, then I lived. I was the only one working in my family and we started over. Of course, aid measures are others as regards local units, as well as debt forgiveness have been countless times and certainly there is always room to look first and foremost at me would like to see individual cases Not generalize them, did we say that there are these other... [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32557	The next replica is the respected representative of Begonja.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32558	Thank you, dear Vice President. Your Honor, Secretary of State. It is certain that at the beginning of the outbreak, the Government of the Republic of Croatia acted quickly, spotlessly and already in April proposed to the Croatian Assembly the law supplementing the Law on the implementation of the implementation of monetary assets where not only the conduct of the FINA was regulated when it came to the special circumstances of the tightening of interest flows, but also in the transitional and final provisions provided for the moratorium to call it three months with the possibility of a government decision for an additional three months, which was used until October 2020. However, these provisions, while allowing the most vulnerable groups in such circumstances to dispose of the financial resources they receive, remain an undetermined issue for that period, which is with the interests of the creditors. Some of them have gone from religious status to debt status, so please comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32559	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32560	Thank you. One of the data so I was here last year when we were bringing it in just without knowing what was waiting for us, but good anti-cicipating. And that's why it's this new amendment to the executive law that can allow the government to act immediately when it sees the data that I'm giving you here today in which direction they're heading. What about the believers? Here I can say that as far as legal persons are concerned, 15,431 are their accounts in a blockade. Probably some of these legal people have debtors in themselves and in private, of course we're talking again in the beginning of a circle where we can't get individuals out of that circle and expect everything to move on. It's very important to be sensitive to the situation and to look at it carefully and to do what if you help someone, if you didn't make it work for someone else, I think you had your own exposure in that direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32561	The next replica is the esteemed representative of the Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32562	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State Curaj, I believe that all of us here present parliamentary representatives have the same goal and that, of course, is the reduction of the number of blocked and therefore this data that we can look at now if we see FIN being monitored on a daily basis and that this is currently a 20% reduction, in some ways gives optimism that all those measures that have been made so far, both under tax reforms and by increasing the average wage certainly have an impact on that. However, what is not said is that when the Government uses the delay that it has been made available to it, that delay creates them and a negative focus towards the lending of citizens or banks, then less want to lend citizens, given the increase in the possibility of not charging and we are aware that at these times and elementary disasters, the need to raise credit will certainly be strengthened.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32563	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32564	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Mazhar. Yeah, it's one of those parts of that circle where I used to say about the believer and the burden shifts don't charge on the others who regularly pay or use it. We had here in the previous Parliament an initiative to put an end to the financial lobby, more or less practically disable lending because it's stealing and then the same people were raising normal, credits. So, credit is something normal, generally in this society and financial end line, financial opportunities that give you something to enjoy, improve the quality of life today, on the burden of future incomes and obligations, not waiting 20 years. So it's hard, it's really hard here, and from this position to defend something where someone would say that I'm putting myself in one ungrateful position, to defend someone from getting their money, and on the other hand, we have to think about the others who would be damaged.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32565	The next replica of the respected representative Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32566	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear fellow, it is not easy for any of us here to handle these figures, and certainly it is not in the interest that these numbers are increasing, or that all participants are in some business where we have taken care of exactly the same and blocked people and helped to solve it in some way. What I would like to point out is that a series of measures that have been taken in particular by the Income Tax Regulation, where the increased benefits have been increased, where protected accounts have allowed one to free some of the debts, that 75% of the income is actually allowed not to be implemented, so all of these are measures that are trying to implement and... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32567	Thank you. The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32568	I agree, dear representative Peric. So, as much as we do at some point, it can't be enough. I can also say that on my personal side and the trail and your thinking, a lot has been done, a lot has gone away from what was four years ago, it's, or 5 or 10, it's unequivocally, that no one can argue. So we've had a lot more and worked in the favor of the debtors themselves, but generally as a state and economic growth has made it possible for us to be completely honest and clear here. Namely, you should always have that sensitivity, I will always highlight it and have one dose and reality. And it always comes to you when you're in opposition, then it's easier to make such suggestions that citizens want to hear, whatever it is, and when you're in a position, then you have one responsibility for the whole system, and that's the dance in which we need to change as much as we can to help those who need help without jeopardizing the whole system, I think that's how everyone does it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32569	The next replica is the esteemed MPs of Vesna Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32570	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, your debate seems to me to confirm that the people's "Sit of Hunger doesn't believe". You said the executive law allows the government to act immediately, so why isn't it working immediately? Why did the opinion on our proposal say that the Ministry of Justice and Administration proposed to the public record chamber to go into three stages? So, you're afraid of a wave of otter. Why isn't it working right now? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32571	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32572	Here, I can just say it again. Because our numbers about practically the almost absolute debt that's at the same level as a year ago and especially when we look at the numbers of people who are completed and blocked, are smaller. If we look at it that way, then we'd need the last 20 years of moratorium. For the last 20 years, we should have a moratorium all the time. For the same reasons we all represent here today, all the time. And in the first crisis, both before and after the war, and all the time. So there must be some objective reasons. What can happen to us after June 30? So what do we do? Let everything go to the 1.7 or you'd be wise to government and you'd suggest yourself if there were no more moratories on top of it, let's give it a succesively let it go. I think that would be a normal proposal on your part that was also by the government. This is the data on January 31st, let's see what 28.2. and then react absolutely, in this direction which I think will be good... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32573	The next replica is respected MPs Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32574	Okay. I can even understand you saying that those who are in blockades and completed are not one homogeneous group. And that there's people all over the place. But most of those in these problems are poor. One million Croats are in danger of poverty, mostly people who are in trouble because of electricity, water, gas bills. You say you've saved the means to keep your lives minimum and to follow that you have data, but you have no data and do not follow, because in Croatia for years it has not counted so-called. a consumer basket to say what is the minimum with which a family can survive or a single person can survive. The last time that calculation was made by Croatian independent trade unions, in 2011, and then that amount was £6700, £4,000 you're talking about, it's not enough to live and when you say the one with $3,000 I'd tell you he could survive... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32575	The answer of the esteemed secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32576	Again, I don't know how to make that sensitivity that exists. I think every normal man gets it. So today there are people working for 3750 kn, 8 hours a day, blood work. And they don't have anything to do. And you really need to ask them how they survive it. When I speak of my own example, there are many personal examples. I also have examples in my family. It's just, I mean, I don't like it, nothing personal, I never said anything, but my wife came in because of the war, and she didn't have a ticket when she went to high school. They survived. Malta didn't have anything to eat. Her parents today have pensions that are below all levels. In total, not even 2000 kn combined. They're just from my family and we all have examples like that. So, you need everyone's help and I'm the first to do it, but you don't jeopardize the whole system so it sounds good and very compassionate to people who... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32577	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative of the Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32578	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So we heard here at the outset from the motion that the government is not proposing any compensatory measures. Here on the other hand we have one proposal that is actually a copy-pass of what the government proposed in April and what the government proposed in July. On the other hand, I would remind you, my colleagues have already said, so we changed the executive law, so in December, which we achieved from 1. 11 to 1. 4, no real estate performance, and also the principal has increased from 20,000 to 40,000, and the performance will also be suspended if no action is taken within a year, thus actually making it impossible for the executive to unnecessarily increase the debt itself. He would refer to one more thing in this proposal if it wanted to ensure a fairer position for the perpetrators. But what about the believer? So we have to look at it. You have a situation to borrow someone's money, your friend doesn't pay you back, the debt has come, on the other hand you have an obligation to thirds, but now a moratorium has come along, in one way you are from the position of the believer coming into the position of the debtor. So no one's talking about it. So the believers are in this story too.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32579	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32580	Believe me, if the believer were 232,000 and the debtor was 15, then they would talk about the believers. But unfortunately, there are these 232,000 who are in serious trouble and who need help, and I believe that all these measures that have been taken, and you know how much I at least remember when I was 5, 10 years ago, during and those governments were saying that these Christmases are sitting on top of them, so some of them were paying off in cash, so it wasn't right for them, so these benefits, maternity benefits, parenting, so it all worked out. It goes, maybe not fast enough, I'm almost sure we could always be faster at everything we've been doing but it's kind of my personal impression, even though I used to be involved in some things, maybe it's self-critical, but it's generally important that we at least go in the right direction. Of course, once again, there are two medals, it's much more important and 232,000 people, and they really need to be watched that the system doesn't collapse without the maximum help, and that's where I believe and work and will continue to work.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32581	The next replica is the respected representative Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32582	Here's a new, exclusive credit model for closing small amounts of credit with no basis, no amount, no performance, no guarantees and no deposits. It's new ads from people hunting in the blurry. And who are they after? They hunt lowlifes who don't have money to pay for gas, they don't have money to pay for water, they don't have money to pay for electricity. They have small children at home, they have to get warmed up, they have to eat, they have to drink. What do we do with them? We have to do something to help. Okay, maybe this proposal of ours isn't the best, but let's help, let's find a model to help these people. This is how they can't function. We push them into an even deeper minus, and what good is that? He's going to be down a long time, and what his colleague says, yes, we have believers who will suffer afterwards. Especially if they don't take the loan. And they don't make a commitment to themselves, but they expect social assistance.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32583	Thank you. The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32584	In my opinion, I think a strong economy is something that is the goal and solution of perhaps these problems most. This is just a fire strike. And this proposal of yours, and generally this is just what I'm saying. It's a ceasefire that may have already devastated everything, maybe it doesn't stay or... But we owe every fire like any fireman who goes out into the field, owes gas, and we have to do it and, of course, think about prevention. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There can be no prevention in the direction that if someone already offers certain financial products, someone who has raised a loan with whom he has afforded it knowing he can repay it, has invested, has improved his standard of living, has a better quality living and functioning. And then if there's a situation that people don't have to repay loans, they'll be denied their housing issue. So again I say, the examples are different and we have to think about the other side.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32585	Thank you. Through the video connection, there is also a respected representative, Romana Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32586	Thank you, Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Secretary of State. One of the participants who will feel strongly if the moratorium does not extend will be employed in the catering sector. So far, the entire sector has lost about 11,000 employees and as time passes, the number will also increase. It is a very serious situation, and now is the time when we must unite and fight together for a righteous society in creating a better future for all. Not just for some. For these reasons, we believe it is necessary to make this decision on the extension of the moratorium in order to protect the most vulnerable groups of society and persons living at risk of poverty or poverty, and these are the most, State Secretary, in our Slavonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32587	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32588	I am well aware of that, unfortunately, those who live in poverty or in the risks of poverty, on the basis of their incomes, will save nothing of this moratorium unless they are among those blocked or executed. Nothing's going to happen to them, maybe even more, they're taking precautions, they're being lifted minus, is the bank saying they can't charge, and neither are you getting, and then they're just getting into a certain problem. I'm not talking about the extension here, the measures have expired on 18 October, so three almost four months are no longer in force. As far as moratorium is concerned, here with this amendment and the new proposal has actually changed to reintroduce measures by 30 June that is what we are discussing here. As for the caterers, I would rather focus here on their employees, not on them, of course, there are many other brands, especially in Slavonia and our OPGs, which are probably even in bigger problems and that is one broad question, but I don't think we're going to solve this.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32589	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'll open the hearing then. On behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns Club, the first one was to speak for the esteemed representative of Hrvoja Zekanovic, who is not there, who is losing his right to speak, and will then speak on behalf of the Representatives' Club Mosta respected representative Marin Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32590	The Honorable Vice President of the HS, Mr. Rainer. My colleagues and fellow MPs. The topic of today's debate on the bill's proposal actually comes down to just one, one question, should the Parliament and the Government say on purpose, to extend the moratorium to enforcement to try to address the negative economic and social consequences of the crisis caused by the covida-19 disease pandemic? One moratorium we had lasted a total of six months, and ended on 18th of 2020. This moratorium has been introduced by the Special Law on Intervention Measures in executive and bankruptcy proceedings during the period of special circumstances which entered into force on 1 May 2020. On the day of entry into force of the Law on Intervention Measures in Croatia, only three confirmed cases of coronary infection with the virus, three. To repeat, on the day the moratorium was introduced we had confirmed number three, three people, three citizens of the Republic of Croatia who were infected. On the day of the end of the moratorium on top of Croatia, I remind the public, 426 cases of coronary infection were reported with the virus after which we recorded a large increase in the number of patients, so we are at the peak of this wave of epidemics often over several thousand over 4,000 infected people a day. Furthermore, at the time when the moratorium was introduced we had a situation of very strict closure of the economy, especially in the catering and trade sector with strict instructions to citizens, stay closed in your homes, in your apartments minimise all contacts with anyone. We have a similar situation since this fall where one part of the economic operators is closed by the decision of the Civil Protection Staff and the Government and are not allowed to work for epidemiological reasons. It is also recommended to citizens all the time, remain responsible, act responsibly, although sometimes it turns out that citizens do not have a very good example in those in whom they should have an example, do they not? Hmm. To continue to limit their contacts, and even before the petrin earthquake we saw again the restrictions between the counties. These data that I have presented are very important colleagues for this debate, we MPs, but the government must see that today we have a much worse economic situation than the one that was this spring. We also need to recognize that we are in a lockdown of a part of the economy, although that lockdown is somewhat lighter than the one we had in spring. It continues to make it impossible for a large number of people to make their income and income in normal market circumstances. It is difficult to take away the impression that we have a problem again with the vague criteria under which decisions are made in this pandemic. The indistinct criteria, that's what upsets the citizens, angry, surprised, don't know what to say anymore how to set them up. So we had three infected, and the government refuses to declare a new moratorium in an epidemiological and health situation that's much different than when we had three infected. I believe that we can do much more on this matter, first of all, this crisis is already taking some time and it is certain that one experience has been gained and it is possible to identify which groups of people are the most economically affected. Logic is, in fact, simple here, if some decision made by the state government makes it impossible to work, making money is limited by its fundamental human rights, the right to work. It is therefore mandatory for the State to depreciate the adverse consequences of the individual then introduced. We may or may not have to like it, but that's true, that's a fact. In the context of enforcement and executive procedures, it is quite measurable, namely the largest number of people before the pandemic had undertaken obligations. People didn't know the pandemic was coming, they were making commitments, and they were dimensioning them according to what was legitimately expected that by their work they would pay for power, that power would pay back their debts, people bought apartments, maybe some cars. One section of people is now not possible to practice or be reduced to a national minimum because of the ban on certain activities. What do we tell these people, what kind of message do we send them from this place, what kind of message does the government send them? Ha, listen, my fellow citizens, you can't work because you can't because you can't, but you still have to settle all your obligations, you have to pay back your debts, you have to pay for astronomical duties. Isn't that hypocritical? That's not fair. As a society, we ask these people to endure a disproportionately large part of the burden of this crisis, asking them to give up some of their incomes, but at the same time to suffer full responsibility for all the obligations at all the costs of the performance. That's not fair, that's not fair. I certainly believe that the proposal by my colleagues in the opposition is good and that we should actually discuss it long before, but in the last amendments to the Executive Law, the Government has given the government the authority to introduce a moratorium by its decision, the Parliament has given the government power, therefore the legal basis exists, and it is the Government that needs to make an urgent analysis that the groups of our citizens are most affected by the consequences of this corona crisis and introduce a moratorium on their obligations. This should be very clear, the criteria must meet the scope, the duration of the restriction, must be objective, fair, proportionate. In conclusion, I'd like to say that the Mosta Club will support this law. We believe that the requirement to introduce a new moratorium for execution is justified, just, just and just. I would also like to propose to the government's present representatives that they consider the proposal to amend the executive law of the last term relating to the supplementation of the article. 65. The law of law. This proposal has been constructive and equally well-founded and would allow the perpetrators, even in the event of special circumstances, to argue before the court their possible request to postpone the application.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32591	Thank you very much. Since it's already been a long time, we're going to take a break, this time before the Honorable Dretar MP comes along and we'll see each other again at 4:00 here. Please radiate a good time at 3:45 p.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 16:06 A.M.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32593	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Right at the beginning, the House of Homeland Movement Representatives Club will support this initiative. Mr. Grbin started on behalf of the promoter with statements that we have all heard and I admit we haven't felt comfortable, when we talked about long-term high-supply drugs that didn't go towards the country's performance, then there's the prime minister at one point said it wasn't the same debt for a cell phone and it's not the same debt for drugs, so don't even talk to a phone with a life-saving fight. And we can even figure out a very tense parallel from his perspective. But we know you've heard a lot of data here, all true, most of it's up to 10,000 kuna, so it's simply an inability for citizens to meet basic existential needs such as electricity, heating, paying for kindergartens, schooling children, caring for the elderly. Unfortunately, we are still in the pandemic and we are still in an extremely difficult economic situation, our indicators are not good at all, and by some not very optimistic estimates at some level before the pandemic we will not be back for two or three years, and that is unfortunately the question. This crisis is overrun and has an impact on all kinds of life. This is when I mentioned taking care of the elderly is that like many European countries, we are becoming unfortunately a country with an ever older and older population, but this is a normal demographic trend in all the countries of Europe that we are unfortunately following. We know for ourselves what our homes are like for older and powerless people, waiting lists are up to ten years long, extremely low pensions make it impossible for people who came in the third lifetime to live with dignity, that I believe in everyone clearly. What is the worst and what is also the consequence of this crisis and as a consequence of the economic crisis since the previous years of looking at our elders is the fact that we are often left alone, and that is believe me, perhaps the most difficult effect of this crisis. They are sometimes left without medical care, especially if they live in rural areas, and only God can know what a weekly menu of a pensioner who receives 1,260 kuna per month looks like. We can't even imagine that. I don't know if anyone here has received it. I have to admit I've got one recently, first of the public record office you get so-called. The final proposal, they inform you that you have a certain debt to someone, look at what it is on the basis of which it is, and there you have eight days to pay for it, if you don't pay it, then it will grow at the corresponding costs of the public record office and, of course, for more and more and more interest, etc. And then what does a man who either doesn't have a job or is on the verge of losing him or having a miserable salary? Nothing. It goes down the road the way I said when we talked here about the law of execution as a gray man, as one poet would say with rain clouds above his head. And then we get hit by another of the worst statements we've heard in Croatian space, pay your dues in time, so there won't be any executions. So, I think Maria Antoinette herself would take off both the crown and the wig and perhaps the cryoline before the insolence of this statement. It is very difficult to speak, of course, fully respecting all the reactions from the ruling that there are other sides to medals, let us listen to the other side, doubtless yes, but on the other hand, they are in the largest number of cases of large companies some of them and state-owned which would be true to the will if we really want to share that responsibility for a while longer. I know they need money to function normally, too, but maybe someone who won't be able to buy a spoon for breakfast tomorrow or some fruit is more important. I'm telling you this crisis is over, here we were talking here yesterday about the Law of Copyright and Related Law, we heard the information that so-called The GDP entertainment industry participates with almost 7% and has, of course, touched this coronary crisis and many of them are under way. Now, if you look at the facebook pages of our not so many famous musicians, that first league crisis hasn't touched you yet, but many players and many accompanying singers are already driving taxis, delivering food, walking pets, getting along with people as they know it. Unfortunately, what's most difficult is the fact that we accepted the salary from 3.5 to 4,000 as something normal. Here's Mr. Secretary of State with all due respect I listened to the story of the difficult conditions, yes, we all started that way and I started 30 years ago, my wife and I didn't have the money to buy the machine. The woman was washing her hands, and at that time for the week I played football, and on the weekends I performed. I can't imagine how much work that was. And our caterers and they're in big trouble and I believe they're expecting a blow to the top, a blow to the blocks. However, in any case, as a Club of Representatives of the Homeland Movement, we support this proposal even if another vote is coming from this side that claims it may not help, that three-month period, or possibly an added three-month period, may also encourage banks to start with some kind of feedback, and that may lead to an even more difficult situation, but our duty here is to take care of these people and send them a message from this pay phone, "You are not alone." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32594	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Grozdana Peric will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32595	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Here we are, but it's very lively, I think these are special moments now. So here is the law on the amendment of the law on the implementation of the law on monetary assets and the HDZ club cannot accept such a bill. And I'll state why. The fact is that neither of us, what I said, is that there are more than 230 000 consumers in the blockade, but when we compare it to the beginning of the execution, or the period when the moratorium was declared, it's about 13,000 performers less. In view of the fact that this number has been over 237 000 since 2019 during this whole period, and then here it is being reduced, and most of the debt of 5.2 billion without interest has been related to the debt of consumers to banks. When we look at the entire financial industry and institutions, it's even 5.9 billion or about 35%. When we talk about the debtors themselves, all of what the secretary of state has stated so far, all of the changes that took place in the Income Tax Act and then in the Regulation where, through that part of the protected account, it is possible to exempt the most significant part of the compensation from the performance, starting with the regression, the child's allowances, the various incentives for workers, etc., from one of the very significant shifts that happened to allow citizens to live as much as possible. When it's mentioned here in the explanation that you're trying to help the unemployed, then there's really nothing you can do about it because these unemployed people just have these benefits that they're exempt from doing anyway. According to these data that come to FINA, and FINA is an institution that monitors it regularly, then it is seen that the decline in the number of new executions is over 20% per month, which means that all these measures have worked very well anyway. If we're talking about income and wages, then what's changed in the law, which is that 3/4 salaries or pensions and up to 4482 kn and 66 lp are excluded from this, which means it's 75%. If we add that, in the period from 2016 to 2016, to raise the net wage, that many fees have been raised starting with parental, maternity, child benefits, personal disability, etc., and personal deductions themselves, then we can be quite satisfied that this amount is still being kept. However, it is not in the interest of any of us, as I say, that citizens cannot comply with their obligations because many are in various situations, starting with the disease, from the workless remains, and before that what they said, a colleague himself, has taken on certain obligations, and it is now difficult to serve. I personally think that all of us, and the government, would like this pandemic to calm down as soon as possible and to open up and actually enable all institutions and legal persons to work and to be able to perform and thus all of us to get through this as quickly as possible. The time that comes opens up actually possibilities that can always be intervened in cases when necessary. I also believe that, knowing many institutions, they do everything to ensure that the citizens are able to bear witness to a colleague from Drnis where he allows his citizens to pay off, say, their obligation to pay a debt to the public, and I know that my city is doing so, and that he also wrote off certain claims to his citizens as the state has written off part of the claim, whether for taxes or for the rest that have been well over 2 billion kuna. When we compare everything that happened here in 2016, then what I can testify from statistics, that over 230 000 people, is actually the poorest number and those who are in a difficult material situation. So all that seemed and seemed was actually the goal of making it possible for citizens to have as much income as possible and yes, but no one could foresee this government nor the whole world would match the covid, and other than covid and earthquake. So there's always ways to continue to work if necessary, but at this point, this is unacceptable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32596	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the promoter, the respected representative Bencic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32597	Thank you. I have a need to answer a few things, the problem is with the data because when they get a little bit out of context, then when you say there's been a rise in net pay, you should have said how much the purchasing power of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia has grown since 2016. So I'll tell you that the purchasing power of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia is 2020. was 66% of the EU's average, last at the bottom of the EU, and last year or 2020, when we look at the only one with less purchasing power than the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are citizens of Macedonia, BiH and Serbia, and even Turkey that stood worse than us in 2019, but last year, Turkish citizens also have more purchasing power than the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. So every time we talk about growing net wages, what we have to talk about is how much prices have grown in that period, how much the cost of living has increased, how much is our consumer basket for an average Croatian household. So here we heard that the problem, of course, is the problem, and that's what we pointed out, if we declare the moratorium that the problem is with the believers. We agree that this is an important part of the problem. But I wonder then if it's a key argument to you why you don't put the moratorium back on again, then why didn't you go with the counter proposal and say okay, we'll put the moratorium on hold for all those debts that are towards public enterprises or the state or public sector in the Republic, and then it wouldn't be a problem with private creditors, right? Because I'm really taking into account the position that believers, for example, are women who fail to collect alimony, that it's a worker who fails to collect his salary, so that's not necessarily just banks and we absolutely have to meet them, but for that there are other measures. And I'm saying since most citizens have a debt of up to 10,000 kuna, why aren't we all those debts that are according to the public sector or written off or at least frozen? Secondly, you all said that, of course, someone with your salary couldn't handle 4,000 kunas and that it was different, but that once again the one with 3.5 could be with 4, but the mass of people who are now out of work, without being able to work, are people who have had medium incomes, so for example, who were the owners of cafes, trainers and gym coaches, artists who haven't worked for a year, people who have worked in tourism, so they were all people who didn't necessarily have the lowest income class and who, according to their income, took over certain obligations of credits, investments, etc. We're also talking about them here because they're not to blame for the crisis that has taken place and that we have to react in some way to the fact that people don't work for a year, that they can't work, that their costs are going, that their directors are going, that their rents for their jobs are going to their business premises. Secondly, what my colleague Grbin said at the outset, which are the deadlines for which the state pays, I'll tell you, for example. Here's what I know firsthand from fellow lawyers, what are your deadlines when you're paying lawyers to represent you on official duty? You pay them twice a year, it's been six months since they gave you the bill to pay them, six months. So we're not talking about support. How much late support? So who did you? Did someone execute you? Do we all have to understand that the state is in crisis so it can't pay? Well, if we did, here they did, they have these lawyers and those people who can't work and those workers who don't get support for a month and two days and longer. So if everyone has an understanding of you, then give a little bit of understanding to those you ask for in this threefold crisis to carry out their obligations in time and say literally debts must be paid because we have a problem with the believers. So let's solve the problem with the believers, let's find these ways and give people a six-month break to this part until we split up until we can start working to survive, we're just looking to survive.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32598	Thank you. We have a whole sequence of replicas again. He's the first respected representative of Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32599	Thank you very much. Everything you said I agree, but it should be emphasized at this point that those who have too much that should be solidarity for everyone. Here I am looking at the first decision of the Slovenian government, the first one was a moratorium on interest and loans, and the team immediately meant that nothing was forgiven, it was not guilty of the crisis or the host, nor was it the worker who did not receive the salary and therefore those who earned their capital, and mainly in the Republic of Croatia four billion kuna for fees and fees per year, not interest, the banks are taking. Why doesn't our government have that courage? You can't say that's populism, over the border not far away, that government has brought into the EU a moratorium on interest and loans. And the team would, of course, and this moratorium for the done would be just, solidistic what we've lost. At least in this Covid crisis the tribal comes back. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32600	Dear representative Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32601	Thank you, Mr. Bull. Yes, of course, I think that the time of crisis should always be a time of solidarity and redistribution. When we talked about tax reform here, that's exactly what we suggested. We have just suggested that we have a tax system that will have 4 rates, where accumulated income, so the total income will be challenged at these 4 rates so that those who have the highest incomes, so not only pay but also other incomes will be taxed at higher rates than those that are therefore in the lower and middle income classes. That's, of course, rejected, although we knew this was the time when we needed that division. But I'll say one more thing, you know why you're not going to the banks now? We have to ask Mr. Maric what he agreed with the banks about the dispute in Washington, the arbitration that the banks against the Republic of Croatia launched because of the Frank case, and what concessions we gave them to end the possible dispute because the dispute was at the end, however, there seems to have been some agreement that has been reached. This Parliament doesn't know anything. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32602	The next replica of the respected representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32603	... My colleague Bencic. [[Specially enabled.]] Here, I congratulate you on this attempt to help a socially vulnerable group, and I must say that I have spent my entire professional working life committed to this, protecting the weaker and helping those who need it most. But here I think the most important thing is to actually establish a real factual state, which is that the ruling helps those who should only be protected when it suits their populistism and self-pronouncers. This week I asked the secretary of state how we would reduce energy poverty. He said by write-offs and debts for electricity to people affected by the earthquake in the area of Bania, and now when we talk about those who are long-term in debt slavery and in the executive crisis, there is no help. Why? [[Intruder: So you wanted to.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32604	Dear Representative Bencic, here you go. [[I'm sorry.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32605	Excuse me. Thank you. If it were to be helped, it would have been helpful to those proposals that we had like not only us from the green-left block but all the others from the opposition to the executive law. So we asked for a change in the order of payment of debts, too, we asked for a break of practice and limited at least the practice of selling debts to law enforcement agencies. We asked them not to grow interest on people all the time and to be in that circle that I can never get out of. We asked to break the practice of long-term account blocks. We asked FINA instead of the practice it now has, which is the blocking of the account, even if it lasts indefinitely, to take over the role of mediators between creditors and debtors in order to arrange for the possibility of that payment that truly man can pay. To pull them out of the gray economy. It's all rejected, it's all rejected. And it could've been helpful.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32606	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of the Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32607	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. You mentioned here a counterproposal or a proposal to make a difference, i.e. why this law, for example, would not only change some of the credentials, so for example, to seek a company, let's say, owned by the city, this law could change, and let's say the search for credit institutions could not. So one very short question, do you really think that such a proposal that you presented here would pass the constitutionality review? And another thing that you mentioned here when you were talking about comparing the average salary and when you mentioned purchasing power, then another information, so the average salary grew during this government of 1147 kuna, and during the government of the proposings and SDP in 2011-2015. 201 kuna. So really numbers can certainly be interpreted, but I think this should be made public.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32608	Dear representative Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32609	Thank you. Yeah, I think I'd pass the constitutionality review, now I'll tell you why. Because the Republic of Croatia is defined in the Constitution as a social state, and also, the Republic of Croatia and all its pillars have assumed a positive obligation to create an environment in which the principle of the social state can be realised. So if we were to distinguish that way, if the state, or its companies, had given up parts, were to profit, there would be income for the reason that it wanted to facilitate the most vulnerable groups survival in times of crisis, yes, it would have endured the constitutionality test because it would have achieved its positive commitment under the Constitution. In fact, it might not have lasted the constitutionality test. But to start with your second question, I certainly won't be here defending the economic policy that was going on and during the SDP government because I also disagreed with it, however, when you indicate how much the net salary has been raised, you say, please and how much the cost of life has increased.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32610	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32611	Thank you very much. Well, you didn't mention it, and you didn't say it, like this. that in the term of this government and in these previous ones it was truly helpful, it was written off for more than 2 billion values to individual persons in the tax administration. Moreover, compared to a previous period, over a million and 800,000 people do not pay income tax. And that used to be half, like, 900 grand. When we talk about it, you say write down cities, municipalities, etc., these are their individual decisions made by their city councils or municipal councils, and many have written off municipal fees, many have entered reprogrammes of various kinds, many have given up rents and leases of public areas just to help entrepreneurs, and so do employees.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32612	Dear representative Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32613	Here, let me answer that. So you're boasting about the fact that 1800, million and 800 thousand people in this country don't pay income tax. You know what that means? That 1800 people in this country live with less than 4,800 and some kuna. And you boast about it, that's good and that's the success of this government. I mean, I, I, I really wouldn't drag that argument out. They are excluded, therefore from income tax because their base is so low that they don't fall into that class, I would be happy if we had a million and 800 thousand people who are in the largest tax class and not not paying income tax and not boasting about it. Furthermore, as regards aid, yes, local self-government in certain municipalities and cities has helped. I wonder, why didn't you, for example, accept our proposal to reduce all the overhead costs to all the directorial costs of the VAT? Instead of reducing VAT certain items for which they are then raised are margins and remains on the same. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you, the next replica is the respected representative of Željko Pavić.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32614	Comrade Bencic, please, take it easy. Dear Representative Pavić, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32615	Dear MPs, here I see that there are some people who have forgotten what was actually going on and have gone a little bit into history even if history has nothing to do with these performances because in 2011, people didn't have these tasks and now they have them but they forgot what was actually going on at the time. In 2011, a bunch of bank accounts came to FINA. Why? Because they weren't taken care of, it was boxes and boxes of paper, that your papers were taken care of and that you knew who was to whom you owed. There was anarchy, you never knew who was going to execute you, which is why you will be executed, in what way you will be executed, disaster. Today we hear again stories about that there are non-applications. Right, but these are receipts that go into those 3500 kn, you know. For which we received a proposal from the government to open a protected account, so that's where the funds will sit. And up to 3500 kn are those funds that are not spent on. So it's all the same, it's blurring people's eyes. ... Yeah, that's the same for you. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32616	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Bencic. .../Intruder Pavić: Look at the little law,... and receiving. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you. Look, there's been a lot of reports, so we're gonna stay safe for eight hours, so let's just stick to the time, please, come on in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32617	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It should be said that the latest amendments and additions to the Executive Act, an extended list of receipts that are excluded from the application. And that's a step in the right direction, but that doesn't solve what's a crucial problem, which is that in the whole process, we haven't installed mechanisms to enable debtors to pay off their debt in a sustainable way. So one of these things is extremely simple, and here we are now to make a deal, we can solve it like this and help hundreds of thousands of people. And that is, for example, to keep an eye on the statute of duty. Well, it's not that bad, is it? A very large number of the debts charged are obsolete, a very large number of debts charged by the claiming agencies are out of date. And people don't have the possibility of objecting. These are things that are simple and we can solve them.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32618	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32619	Let's start with the premise that this law is no good. Which is a little strange because we unanimously adopted the same law eight, nine months ago, but well, let's start with that premium. What can we do in this situation? We can say no, we can refuse it, and we can offer our own solution. With the irony of fate, today's ruling took over the role of opposition and for what they proposed and adopted nine months ago, they say is not good but they do not offer an alternative solution. In the United States, perhaps the richest country in the world, certainly the country with the largest economy, a plan has been made to help people affected by the coronary crisis. 71% of Americans in full and 17% in part will receive a check of $1,400 and that's a third round of help. America can, Croatia can't. Even help those who are asked to pay for something. Not directly help, indirectly. But at least help. No, Croatia can't.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32620	Dear representative Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32621	Thank you. Yes, yesterday was actually on this very trail a very funny situation on the Committee on Finance when your representative objected to us for a proposal that we gave that was not very well worked out, but it should, however, be that one article, that it should still be different, that it should be seen that the hill-wreck and so, so I told him that you knew that it was your proposal, we just repeated it, so we're just doing what was already done, we're asking it to be done again, so he didn't have an answer to that. And he probably liked the proposal a lot more suddenly, and suddenly he was probably no longer a hill-wrestle. However, when we talk about what attitude the government will take towards policies and how it will now behave in solving this crisis, I think the key thing is to get out of those shoes that we've been in, if they've done it far more neoliberal economies than ours and those that are European, then we should also understand that this is not business as usual.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32622	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives will be that of the Centre and GLAS on behalf of which the respected representative Dalia Oreskovic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32623	Honored Chairman, fellow MPs and MPs. A little unusual, but I'll start with what my colleague Davor Dretar pointed out in his debate. He said that we should send a message from this stage to those completed and blocked if they weren't alone. I think it would actually be much more honest to admit and publicly say that they're alone, that they're abandoned. I'm not going into it right now whether they're themselves responsible for the trouble they've been in or there's still some co-responsibility between the system and the state that hasn't made a good legal and institutional framework that would check out what kind of financial services are being offered to citizens on the market, so I'm not going into it. But the fact is that the moment our citizens found themselves in trouble that no system had left them, there was neither legal nor social nor any other security that would help them overcome the crisis they were in. And it is paradoxical that this is exactly the word security, a word that rulings often use when talking about the government's programme in this term. This proposal can be supported in any case, but it should be said that even if there were a will or hearing of the ruling to adopt this law, and we know that it simply does not exist, it would only be analgesic, only mild pain relief and problems that our citizens have, and we know that a powerful and strong drug is actually needed for inflammatory processes that take a very, very long time. So the moratorium will not help those who are permanently in a situation that are unable to repay their debts. All those who are now in a blockade first need a significantly different and significantly fairer system of performance, and are we ready to change that? Are we prepared from the Executive Act to throw out a whole series of intermediaries who cost the performance, and then also charge interest very often more than the principal's own amount? Are we ready to lift some of the powers of the financial agency that are very often shown as an unusual system for which there is no pandemic at European law level? It would be a reform, it would give our perpetrators a sign that this country is seriously considering the problems and needs of its citizens. That's why this side of the assembly isn't capacitated or ever will be. The question is, what kind of strength does the opposition have? Are we ready to unite at least to start discussing such topics seriously and to argue as we have discussed important problems several times before? Other problems are jobs. It's a waste of moratorium if they're not there one day when the fallout, lockdown and all the other problems caused by the corona's apartment's virus. And how do we get to these jobs? Well, certainly not by continuing with the same models we've been moving so far. As I have today objected to the rulings when it was due to vote on a new National Development Strategy, if Croatia thinks to survive, it must change into serious structural reform processes. No announcements, no indication that they will ever come as HDZ is in power in that direction. We need a rational, efficient public administration, we need fewer counties, cities and municipalities, we need an effective and efficient judiciary, not a judiciary whose judges dance in parties with Kerum. We don't need a judiciary that the president of the state is as sloppyly defending as he did today, we don't need a judiciary that can't sanction its own judges. Why am I saying that? Because ultimately all the executive processes, all the constitutional processes, and that was the case during today, will eventually be immersed in the judicial system, in those who enforce the laws in practice. And what are these people like for us, what is our quality of the collision frame? Are we moving in the right direction? Like I said, it's easy to support a proposal like this, at least on our side, but it's just a little pill that relieves the current pain. Unfortunately, too many citizens and the short-term pill that does not solve the problem are the only salvation and need saving now. About how to interpret the moves of rulings that are de facto the same bill, the same solution had only a few months earlier, may those who brought you in or allowed you to sit in power again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32624	Now, on behalf of the promoter, a respected representative, Tomaševic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32625	I want to go back to the debate on what counterpart Habib mentioned about the selective moratorium on top. When we proposed this proposal together with colleagues from the SDP, information appeared that came about the public notebooks that a good part of the people who are threatening to do just that they are being threatened by the debts due to the directorship. What was later shown, and I believe that you also know on your own examples that when we look at, for example, municipal services, I will give as one example, one of the largest items in municipal services that citizens are paying for. households are water services or water. For example, in the City of Zagreb, it forms the largest part of the accounts that people pay to Zagreb Holding. And now that you've said when, for example, you'd go to a moratorium on performance at least for the debts due to the directorship, for example by water, the question of whether it would withstand the constitutionality test. I'm just going to remind you of one fact, water and water right is a human right, that's what the UN has declared. We have some countries in the neighborhood like Slovenia that have put water in the Constitution, we have countries like Belgium member of the EU that have put a number of cubic waters free of charge for all citizens to use each year. So even this should be something in the normal social state, Croatia according to the Constitution is the most normal thing. We don't even talk about debt forgiveness here even though we could talk about accounts that were created for water default. So what are we going to do to turn off people's water because they've accumulated their debts? Would such a thing be constitutional at all, would it be in line with the European Convention on Human Rights and Freedoms? So we're not even talking about it, we're talking about moratorium on top because of the debt due to the water default. So I am very confident that such, and yet another thing, we cannot even talk about an unfair situation where private companies are compared to public enterprises because I will remind you of your colleagues, according to the Water Services Act, I can provide only public companies. Some other services such as electricity, electricity can also be provided by private companies, but water can only be provided by public companies and it is good that way. But then when we talk about a moratorium on a charge due to debts due to the non-payment of water services, these are exclusively moratories to public water companies, not public and private. Thus, there would be no unfair market position in this direction or in the direction in which public companies are cut off from private or private to public. So I think where there's a way and from this perspective because this crisis doesn't stop, because this pandemic is going on, because we have so many vaccine problems, it's getting worse and worse, and it's making the social situation worse. We proposed this law in time before that old moratorium expired on October 18th, we didn't say that the moratorium should be extended indefinitely but until the new Executive Law was made. We gave you enough time to do it in December you only solved Christmases, more or less cosmetic changes you've made, but even that new Executive Law you've already had is still for some reason a year and a half ago you pulled out of a public debate and we've never seen it. So we still don't have an orderly system, we need a new executive law. There's no more government representatives, I guess it's Friday afternoon. We're here yesterday to remind you of your colleagues who were here until midnight. I know that a representative of the government doesn't have to be here because we're proposing, but I still think on such an important subject that no one from the government can be a representative here, and it's manifested so inconsistencies that I don't think it's correct. I don't know if he's got better things to do, I hope he's working on, then with a better proposal, this problem, the social problem we're talking about. Okay, not all debts are the same, I agree, not all believers are the same, and I agree with that, but let's make a better, more detailed proposal. You suggest something to solve this social problem because this is a social problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32626	We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32627	Thank you. One of the interesting things is that in providing certain services that are actually existential questions for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia such as the issue of water, but it is certainly a matter of electricity, it is certainly a question and telecommunications we are now coming to this dubiosis, of course, if this pandemic continues, especially if there is a global economic crisis that the state will address the situation that has private providers of these services? I think what you should have learned from this crisis and now this situation is that never the key infrastructure in the state is privatized, ever because in situations like this you can't manage, you can't take matters into your own hands and you can't allow citizens, for example, to have free still water, but that they can have electricity and not do them because of it or telecommunications.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32628	Dear Representative Tomašević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32629	I agree. If anything else I think for the last two decades we have been listening to all possible international organisations that say privatize all municipal services, privatise all services provided on the basis of some kind of physical infrastructure such as telecommunications services. We saw how the super privatization of HT went, and they told us these ideologists that the state couldn't manage such enterprises well, so they sold to another state, a state-owned company as well as they can obviously manage better, so it turned out that we sold or claimed that we sold infrastructure, not just buildings and companies. So what you see all over Europe, and both in the world, is the return of key municipal services and public services to public hands, just doing this kind of situation. It was done before the crisis because it proved that natural monopolies... /Speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32630	The next replica is the respected representative Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32631	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague. So you're here to show by your debate that we from HDZ are probably insensitive, that we don't have feelings for the debtors, so all the measures that have been made so far over the last four years have been in order to facilitate the position of the creditors, and you're aware that this is visible in the figures how few are done. So the executive law was never a social law. There's a debt and a debt has to come back, it's always been so in all societies. You said yourself you consider debt to be returned. We know that the situation is what it is now, and we know that it is harder for everyone, but as it is harder for the debtors, so it is harder for the believers, many of them have become debtors. Mrs. Oreshkovic herself said she won't be much help with this, she won't, you know why? Because it's a closed circle.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32632	Thank you very much. Answer, dear representative Tomašević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32633	Excuse me here, we're talking about a law that's not an executive law, we're talking about precisely measures that are proposed as a kind of social measure. If we can have more detailed and more precise changes to the law, and that they have a social impact you suggest better because because, I will remind you, you were the first to introduce this moratorium precisely for those reasons, precisely for those reasons when the pandemic started when it started lockdown for socioeconomic reasons you introduced this moratorium. We said extend it because the reasons continue to last, nothing has changed, what has changed, we still have the lockdown we had in the spring. What's changed? Only more people lose their jobs. What we said, extend it, too, until you make a new executive law that you yourself promised to do, and you yourself said that this executive law does not solve problems, unregulated claims collection agencies, so-called. Green agencies, does not solve this problem, does not solve debt slavery, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32634	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Pavic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32635	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I'm sorry there's no government official here. There's a colleague. Well, bravo, bravo, great, because I think our goal is actually to convince him that we need this law to be introduced and that we need to take action. [[Intruder Reiner: The government representative is here so look a little bit better.]] The way we're acting right now, it's not good, we're taking a bus, you're in your trench, we're in your trench, you think someone's attacking someone, you think we're looking for something more than we need, and we're just asking to help people who are socio-economically threatened, nothing else and there's over 200,000 directly and there's more connected where family members are, it's hard to estimate. But what I wanted to draw attention to is also to the gentleman from the government and all of you, the performances that are being carried out in the FINA are extremely pedantic and there is an accurate view of the structures of the debt, to whom it is owed, means the structure of the creditors, which is the structure of the debtor, to which amount, from which amount, can therefore be analysed as can be given to a particular group of aid. It's not true that we don't have the information, it's not true that there's no way to help someone. We've heard a lot of objections here why there's nothing we can do. but we haven't heard any ideas from Mr. Government or from the ruling party which we could do to help these people anyway. Right now, we're acting like two rams on a cabin. Nor do you give in, nor do we give in. We feel that we need to help and what's worst, and you think we should help but you claim that's impossible. But that's why we're calling you, let's find a solution. Let's see where the state can urinate, where the state can react, what the state can do, what regulation it makes, what regulation it makes to help these people. Whether this, as counterpart Habib said, will be a partial aid in the sense that we will release them from some of the local or some of the local or some of the public institutions, the question is, but here, we are asking, please help. I've said it before in my replica, we're not looking for anything violence, but let's find a solution to help these people. I read that ad that we help actually help people who get rich in other people's troubles. Let's stop it from getting those people who are already in trouble don't get us into any deeper problems. If he's going to be in any deeper trouble, he's going to be in this whole family. However, you see for yourself, interest is low. There's 20 of us here. There should be now actually for this topic, actually for this topic should be the interest of all of us who are here. We were chosen by a people who unfortunately have no money at the moment, who can't live, who has no direction, who doesn't have a normal life. They sent us here and we don't want to help them now. Or we don't know, I have no idea. We may need advisors, but I think we have enough professional people in the government, I think we have enough detailed analysis based on how you've read a lot of numbers, you've probably been doing some kind of analysis that would happen,... If something is done, I hope you have some kind of suggestion that can be done at least partially to make these people a little bit of a problem, and if you think there's a possibility that the state is coerced somewhere to help these people, let's go, people. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let's do it, I mean financially when I say it. For example. that those who have so much and so much money with their debtors, let's say they don't charge taxes during that period. So they'll be able to bear the burden of the debt they're facing. So here we're talking about the rainbow, we're talking about natural persons, of course it's reflected on legal persons because they owe mah to legal people and we know that there are problems then after that. And after that, if these legal people are not helped, then they get in trouble, too, because they get in the way. Look what happens to small craftsmen, small-time owners, what happens to the O.P.G.s, big problems happen. We heard yesterday from Mr. Lenart what it looks like to go into a seed project, what it looks like, and how much money it takes to sow a plastic, say, paprika or tomatoes.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32636	Thank you very much. We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32637	Dear fellow MP, you have made a good point in your debate that we have somehow divided into trenches and that the general impression that can be gained by those who are concerned about this problem is that the ruling has no hearing about their needs and problems, and I am also saying that in the context of the comment of colleague Jelkovac who said so are we accusing HDZ of being incomparable? Not only are we accusing you of being insolent, we accuse you of being corrupt and it's really paradoxical, not to say insulting Croatian citizens, when you HDZ people are saying that debts should be paid back. Well, you don't pay back your debts, but you don't pay off your loan because you don't borrow, you steal, you steal. That's what actually hurts because if that weren't the case, the state would have more resources to help those who needed help and not today.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32638	My colleagues Oreshković, based on Article 239, I give you a warning because you cannot insult all HDZ members or any other party, that they are thieves, that while I am here, I will not allow anyone, nor from any party about another party. Therefore, no personal insults or insults to the entire party. We are going to respond to the replica, and the violation of the Rules of Procedure who it is, the esteemed representative Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32639	Dear Vice President, you have violated Article 238, namely, your colleague has said something which is, as far as I know and confirmed by a court ruling, so...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32640	That all members of the party are thieves?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32641	No, but that the party is a thief, and that means we can. Then logically conclude further what and how. [[/Intruder: No, no, no.]] It's written by a party not an individual, not an individual, not a member, but members that and that's what my colleague said to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32642	Let me give her a different interpretation of this one I won't give you a warning because I believe you spoke in good faith, but I repeat, I won't allow anyone here from any party to insult another party or insult an individual. And you read to yourself whoever thinks it's not so let him read his own Rules of Procedure at last. But we have an answer to, if we have another breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32643	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague Oreshkovic injured Article 238. Rules of Procedure, here insulting me personally because he calls all members of the HDZ. So that's all I'd like to say, colleague Oreshkovic, your opinion is personal and may be whatever you want, but I'll just tell you something. This HDZ government has done more for the position of creditors in the Republic of Croatia than...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32644	All right, fellow Jelkovac, I've assessed this as The breach of the Rules of Procedure therefore I think that any further story of the infringements of the Rules of Procedure is unnecessary here, please. [[I apologize for the position of the debtor.]] Why would he give a warning? Well, I'm, uh, I think the Rules of Procedure got hurt. My colleague Tomašević, you are not running this session, but I am and do not throw it out of the bench. Now we can finally go on, fellow Habib, please, I think we're...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32645	I just wanted to say that I'm withdrawing because you've responded, so I'm withdrawing the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32646	Thank you very much. Can we go to the reply to the replica? Here you are, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32647	Okay, I wanted to avoid this situation because we're gonna get off topic. So we heard among other things about the exposure of a colleague from Zadar, you had great numbers. That's what I said and already for a government official you probably took from the website of FINE I guess or you got them from some service in FINI and based on that information we can do something about, but we can't just say look, we can't do it because of that, that and that. Let's get this thing out of the way. If we move that away, we'll be able to do something about it. But if we don't move out of place, there's nothing. Although you did last year when there wasn't such a big crisis, now the crisis is much deeper and nothing is being done.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32648	Thank you very much. The next replica is respected Representative Hajdukovic. [[Let's go.]] Please, let's not communicate like that from the bench. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32649	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague, it's actually a sad fact that we have to discuss this at all. We suggest it, of course, in the form of a legal proposal, but we cannot do business differently. But to help its citizens who are now at risk because of the pandemic and because of the economic crisis, because of the earthquake, only one decision is enough, literally just one piece of paper that our prime minister would tell the secretary to choose to organize. That's all it takes. And how then we're going to talk about complex situations that need to be solved, about failing agriculture, about the bad laws that are being passed, about Slavonia that continues to be emptied and evicted. So how to talk about solutions to such problems that are much more complex when such a very simple solution can't be made according to the legal proposal that we have voted for and most supported.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32650	The answer of the esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32651	Here I would go one more step further. We don't even need government decisions. All it takes is a suggestion from that level towards public enterprises to do something about it. This will be heard by public companies and will certainly help people, but the state must also do something in return. If the company has no income and has to pay VAT, it must pay income tax, earn a pardon every month, normally ask for their money, but if the state frees them from something if it tells them you don't need to pay it, then they too will be able to bear the burden of the crisis. Without it, it's not working. So there must be measures that extend towards both the Ministry of Finance and the Social Service and towards pension and all other systems in the state. Without that, it doesn't work because there's both pensioners and employees and those on the stock market, that's what we pay for. And we'll pay even more. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32652	We have another replica from the video link, respected representatives of Romana Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32653	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Representative Pavic, I think it is necessary to constantly point out that the first moratorium has been introduced to facilitate the situation of natural persons in the process of performance and reduce the damage to economic business due to the negative economic consequences of the Covida-19 pandemic. The bad social and economic situation is not that it didn't go away but it's getting bigger and bigger. The numbers at the employment office confirm that. In view of the fact that the Government has had time to amend the Implementing Law within 6 months, and has done nothing about it for these reasons, it is necessary to amend Article 2(2). The law supplementing the Law on Implementation and it is of great importance to accept both our amendment and thus help those who have not found themselves in financial troubles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32654	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32655	Yeah, the suggestion is great. Don't forget that the executive law has changed recently. That we changed actually the persons, the legal persons involved in the executive process. Whether it's a good solution or not, if you ask me, I don't think it's because we put in another group of people who make enough money here, and I don't think it's necessary for them to participate to that extent and make so much money, but the law is what it is, most of them voted for it. So that, if those persons were to be excluded at this point, it would mean nothing to us because they actually appear when the execution comes, and we are now talking about people who have the responsibility, who are in a blockade and never the execution will be done because money will never sit on their account unless they are aware, unless they are even deeper in debt, and then they think about what will happen to them and future generations.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32656	Thank you very much. The next debate will be respected representatives of Katarina Peovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32657	Here's how much you can do in five minutes on this rather complex subject. It's not a good morale when we talk about this subject, it's not a good idea to stick to just statistics that can be manipulative, so when we talk about some growth on this side, we always have to consider the cost of life. So when you talk about some increase in the number of employees, the increase in wages, then you always and constantly exclude the fact of that consumer basket, and the biggest problem at the moment is that the Croatian Government is not counting the consumer basket and we are talking abstractly about the minimum amount needed to survive. It also relates to one type and moral economy, when we talk about it, the debts must be paid back, which means the brush that's constantly being heard. Then when we consider that minimum, it means need, it's life needs, we can't rule out the data and the fact that it's not human need to generate profit and at this point it means making profit is not a priority but ensuring a minimum of human minimum, so to survive from the first to the first of the month. So here we are talking about basic means of life. Most of those who are blocked and under the roof are poor, we can't talk about finished and blocked as homogeneous groups. There are, of course, craftsmen who found themselves in a risky real estate business. But the poorest is the largest number. So they have the highest share in the number of those who are the poorest. And there are really statistics that are key, and that is that almost 1 million people are at risk of poverty in Croatia and that is why we are really in trouble in this topic. Certainly, some of the measures of the executive law that were here would have really been resolved in the short term, and I don't have time to enter some of the measures that were already mentioned as the first payment of the principal then of the tightened interest, the restriction of the growth of the tight interest on the maximum amount of the principal, the depletion of the tight interest on the public accounts, so the current, water, gas, too, the special problem so that the demand agency, etc., means something of that would certainly be done by the Executive Law, changes to the Executive Law could be solved, but what is emerging here and why this proposal is limited in some way is that after 3 months and that we reintroduce the same measure, most people would not find themselves in a situation to solve the problem in which they don't have a job, because they are unemployed, because they are receiving the unsatisfactory means that they would actually get out of the problem, and then they always mean the same amount of the same amount of growth, and the same strategy, and the same way, which they started with the problems, and the problems, and the problems of the problems, which they started with the problems, and the problems, and the problems that we started with the problems, which they started with the problems, which they started with the problems, and the problems, and the problems, and the problems of the problems, and the problems, and the problems, and the problems, and the problems, and the problems, and the problems that we started to the problems of the problems of the problems that we started, which they started, which they started, which they started, which they started, and the problems, and the problems of the problems, and the problems of the problems of the problems, and the problems of the problems of the problems of the problems, and the problems of the problems, which they started, which they started, which they started, and the problems, which they started, which they started, which they started, which they started, and the problems, and the problems of the problems of the problems, which, which, which, which they started, which they started, and the problems of the problems of the problems of the problems, and the problems, and the problems of the problems of the problems of the problems, which they were, which they, which they were, which they were, which they were, which they were the But I don't have time to talk about it here, so I'm just going to focus on what I think is the basics and what would really be one help, which is, therefore, the forgiveness of debts related to electricity, gas, water, apartment. So these are things people can't live without. No one can live without electricity today, no water, no gas and no apartment, right? So these are things that really should be the right measures. The second thing is, it is necessary to define, regardless of what we do not have that consumer basket that the Government refuses to count, it is not about that we do not have the capacity to calculate, the DZS could do it, but we do not do it as it does, the Slovenian government because we would come into the situation to realize that the minimum wage is absolutely insufficient to survive with it because the last consumer basket was working, the trade unions were doing somewhere in 2011, when it amounted to, and without transportation, without education, without various things, going to sea, 6700 kuna, but it is necessary to redefine the protected minimum. It cannot be arbitrarily placed and determined but must be related to the minimum cost of life.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32658	Thank you very much. We have a replica of the respected representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32659	Dear colleagues, at the beginning of your presentation, you said there was no need to moralize. Now here I disagree with you, I think it's very important to moralize because the very social groups you're trying to protect through your policies feel completely demoralized. In fact, the believer is very often also a state and it is really paradoxical that when the state is a believer, and it is necessary to collect its claim according to a powerful verdict based on a given bribe, for example, those 5 million euros, 5 million euros from Mr. Jezic, the state has never charged as a believer in the executive procedure. So, the esteemed president of HS, while I'm a representative, and I'm moving within the subject, I'm not going to let you limit me to what I'm going to talk about and what I'm not going to talk about. And indeed, Mr. Jelkovec, your problem is that you don't feel ashamed to be a member of the HDZ. I would be ashamed to be a member of a political party convicted of corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32660	Here's a response from the esteemed MPs... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32661	So I have to say that I didn't say it wasn't necessary to moralise, but that moralize is often a slippery ground, but absolutely means, when we talk about moralization, we need to talk about what I call a moral economy, and that's where I came up with exactly what's mentioned, which is that when the state, when it's a believer, it can and must help these people. So write off public sector debt is something we can really and morally do because it can be done, and it's not done. Therefore, when we speak to a public sector debt write-off, that is indeed, we can also address those qualifications. But really, we keep saying there's no money, but if we're just going to name what these affairs are, a billion kunas to the church that goes annually, 10 billion kunas to the CNB capital account, I mean, there's money. Infinite. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32662	Thank you very much. The next debate will be respected MPs Romana Nikolic, here he is, via video, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32663	Here, here, I'm here, I'm here. The crisis caused by the epidemic is getting deeper, and the negative consequences are increasingly visible every day. Thousands of citizens are out of work, income has fallen to almost all workers and entrepreneurs, and it is up to all of us to help and make the right moves. By adopting this proposal for a law amending the Law on the implementation of the implementation of the law on money by means of the final proposal for a law, it is a first step towards this. The moratorium is needed until the debt repayment plan is established, and thus they are relieved of the difficult economic situation they have found themselves in. It is particularly important to prevent a new wave blocked until amendments and additions to the Executive Act and amendments and additions to the Act on the implementation of the budget implementation, i.e. until the end of the specific circumstances. And I repeat again, now is the time when we must unite and help those who have not their own will find themselves in financial troubles. And finally, from Osijek, from the poorest part of Croatia, I invite you all to accept this proposal as well as our amendment and join us in fighting for a fair society, in creating a better future for everyone, not just for some. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32664	Thank you very much. We also have replicas. He is the first respected representative of Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32665	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Nikolic, you have said well, so it is necessary to help people, entrepreneurs, citizens, etc. And when we heard, and we heard here in the discourse, debts should be paid. Well, we agree, so no one will forgive anyone for his debts. It's just a way to make it easier for people until because of the pandemic of the coronary virus they can't normally deal with their activities, they can't work or lose their jobs because of it, they're trying to help them get over this difficult period, not to forgive their debts and it needs to be demystified. And whatever it takes, if it's not going to support our legal proposal, anything that needs to be made by the prime minister is going to tell the secretary to prepare.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32666	Dear Representative Nikolic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32667	Thank you, Vice President. Well, that's exactly what Mr. Hajdukovic is saying, no one's saying that these debts won't be paid, but just, we're just asking that it be delayed until they get on their feet. That is, until this crown crisis is over.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32668	The next replica of the respected representative Pavic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32669	Here we have heard before the proposal to amend the executive law. And as for the people who, here, are affected by this crisis and the problems, I think that we who come from smaller backgrounds can best see it. It's hard to see in big cities. You will find this difficult to see in one Zagreb, Split, Varazdin, Rijeka, or even in Osijek, but when you come to smaller towns, when you come to smaller towns, then you see it very well because you see how people live, people are more connected, more talk, more neighbor comes to neighbor and asks listen, you have to borrow 100 kuna to buy children bread. And that's the problem, and when you hear it once, you ignore it, and when you hear it the second time, the third time and the fifth time, then it's already a big problem, and that's why we need to find a solution, and I believe that you have similar problems and similar examples in Osijek, since unfortunately there is here, we know what the situation is with agriculture, probably the economy is not exactly in great shape, and I don't believe that people can find any new employment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32670	Dear Representative Nikolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32671	Thank you, Agent Pavic. Well, yeah, you're absolutely right. Otherwise, Osijek and Slavonia and the "blind hose of Croatia" regarding employees and social security. Of course, the government has had time in six months for the moratorium to put an amendment to the executive law, it has not done so, and now it has the opportunity to accept our proposal and accept our amendment in order to delay even more difficult situations that will affect our citizens because of this pandemic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32672	Thank you. The next debate will be the respected representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32673	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, it's been said enough already that through replicas, which through discussions, I would repeat just a few things and underline that I think are important because they say sometimes that repeating is the mother of knowledge. In fact, no one could predict the pandemic it happened and unfortunately has and will likely have a very big impact on our economy, on the health of our citizens, etc. In order to make it easier for them to deal with this crisis, we have proposed in the last term and in this whole series of laws. It is unfortunate that one prime minister, or our prime minister, is saying that there is nothing out of this opposition, no vision, no suggestion, no alternative, I am now going to begin to list all the legal proposals that we have proposed in the last term, and in this one as regards the current handling of the crisis, I would probably spend all my five minutes on listing them. As long as they're accepted, you know, alone, none of them are accepted. Some solutions were copied by the government, literally copied into its legal proposals, but that is not disputed either because we eventually supported those proposals, and we supported them as opposed to the ruling ones who support nothing that does not come from their camp. The result was the same in the end, and that's that we helped our fellow citizens, and that's all that matters, and that's why we're still here. And poverty is, as pointed out by colleagues and colleagues who discussed it before me, especially now here from counterpart Nikolic is a really big problem in Croatia and getting bigger. When you see how many people are just walking the streets picking up containers, everything is clear to you, and in the east of Croatia, I'm afraid the situation is much, much more difficult. This is what we had on the table, so moratorium about, on top already. Unfortunately, many people have lost their existence because of the pandemic work, many will unfortunately just remain, many can’t if entrepreneurs and craftsmen are doing business under normal conditions. And the only intensities of this is to help them overcome this difficult period. So once again, I underline not to forgive the debts but to help them get through this difficult period. But again, I will ask myself rhetorically what can we expect from a government that, by its own decision, can make a piece of paper easier for many citizens this period, how will we expect them to solve much more complex problems. Here in Slavonia, we can say that the motto of the Ministry of Agriculture could become “every week we shut down the drive one. ” And what little jobs we have is starting to get lost. Why? Because of the government's reckless decisions. I'll give you one example. Since late 2015, incentives for sugar beet production are beginning to decrease. In about 2 to 3 years, they decreased by almost 50%. We can see the result only today, and this is the quenching of, above all, the viritative sugarcane that has forever closed its doors and the uncertain future of Osijek's sugarcane, as well as those in the County, with the beginning of February. It's about 200 jobs. Perhaps the number 200 is not much for Zagreb, it is not much for Istria, but for Slavonia it is very much. In Slavonia, it's the difference between life and death. In one Virovitica, 60 employees mean a lot. Virovitica, by the way, tried to brand herself as a sweet city, now remained just a bitter taste of that sweet city and that government concern for the region. And I will remind you that during the debate on the national and development strategy, Virovitica-Podravska County has been apostropheeded as an example of the undeveloped end of Croatia. Systemic care, bad and thoughtless decisions affect the situation we are in, and I'm afraid we'll feel the consequences not now, but in some short-term, i.e. A medium-term period much, much more. The decision that we now, the bad decision that we're about to make by rejecting this proposal will give us its bitter fruit to express myself in six months, in a year, maybe in two. We may lose those 60 or 200 families from Slavonia to, somewhere in the EU in Ireland, Germany. Perhaps those 60 workers from the viritarian sugar shop will also seek their happiness somewhere further, and all these consequences could have been avoided only with little thought and with little vision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32674	You have one replica of the esteemed representative Nadj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32675	Thank you very much, Vice President. Col. Hajdukovic's special circumstances caused by the Covida-19 pandemic are also looking for special measures. What is this government that has no response to the cry of its citizens, the cry of citizens who are under special measures and rejects the proposals of the opposition that it is offering? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32676	Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32677	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. What kind of government is this? So HDZ's government is very simple to say, and I'm also going to say HDZ's majority. I cannot represent myself as a representative, as a responsible representative who has been elected by citizens to represent them, them and their interests here cannot afford not to support every proposal that I consider to be a proposal to benefit the citizens. It's obvious the government can afford. Credit financial institutions will be much easier to survive this difficult period than citizens who, for this reason or that reason, are at stake. So very little effort could be made to make this period much easier for them. And I repeat, no one's talking about forgiveness of debts, the debts really have to be paid, but just overcoming this very, very difficult period.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32678	The next debate will be the respected representative of Tomasevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32679	As the debate goes, we're all less on this side of the assembly. If the government were a different situation, I don't think it would be so then, but since the opposition is the proponent, then, it's less and less on this side. Why is this law now under discussion now, once again reminding me, we put it a few days, about a week before this deadline expired on the 18 October moratorium in the legal procedure. At that time, the political will, or will of the ruling majority, could have been found at the vote. However, she was gone and then that simple moratorium expired and what happened happened, and the crisis continues. We couldn't put him on the table earlier because, as you know, we had to wait two months for him to be on the agenda, so that we could collect 30 signatures to discuss him. So we're sorry we haven't discussed this in October, but this is as fast as we can, and that we as an opposition can put something on the table. If it had been the will of the ruling majority, we could have done it before. I'll remind you again, for example, of some of the contradictions we discussed here today. For example, we are talking today that the government has adopted a conclusion that has written off the demand for electricity in an earthquake affected the area. In 3 months, January, February and March. And the best part is, she wrote it off to everyone in that earthquake-stricken area. Not only those affected by earthquake houses, as HEP made it very clear at the end of last month that it would write off the demand for electricity for everyone. And it's a good thing, we've been looking for it, and I think it's easier and moreover, that whole area is a nearly assisted area, and I think it's justifiable. However, on the other hand, some citizens, including here in Zagreb and Zagreb County, and, for example, Cucerje, Markuševec, live in residential or goods containers after the last earthquake, and this is the area affected by the earthquake. It wasn't an earthquake in December, but it was struck by an earthquake in March. There was a difference between them, for the heating of electricity from several thousand kunas, 4.5 thousand kuna, only in two months was the cost, in November and December. And they're still going. That didn't work out. And now, such people, since there is still no institutional solution, and it refused to mention it in the City of Zagreb City Assembly on the proposal of the opposition, refused the HDZ proposal that at least for those in these containers in the City of Zagreb, electricity is paid from the city budget, such people can be executed if they cannot pay the bill for electricity. On the other hand, it also shows this paradox, the government has ordered HEP to do so, but cannot impose on private companies that sell electricity, so that they continue to charge in the earthquake affected area because HEP is a state-owned company. You understand? These are means of partial solutions, and they show deeper problems when we privatise municipal and public services. On the other hand, what we also want to say clearly is that we have asked for the moratorium to be extended until a new executive law is passed that would systematically solve the problem of the execution. In those last changes, there were cosmetic changes that were going urgently, primarily for Christmas, which is why it was in December in HS. The 27th seems to me to be changing, because there is still no new Executive Act, even though the same HDZ referred to the procedure and to the public debate in 2019 and then gave up on it. This means that it is still not regulated now, we are one of the few countries in Europe that does not have regulated work of demand collection agencies, we are one of the few countries in the EU where you have a situation where the cost of spending is higher, can be greater than the debt itself, where people don't even know they're done, so they don't know that their debts are resold to agencies, etc., etc. On the other hand, at the beginning of the epidemic, one Slovenia immediately brought a moratorium to credit, on credit basis.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32680	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the respected representative, Peovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32681	Okay, what's interesting is, okay, we have banks that have a huge percentage in that total structure, 41.4%, if other financial institutions are involved, means savings, credit union, lying and factoring society, insurance companies, etc., that's 48.5%, we have teleoperators, so banks and teleopers are the biggest creditors, but even 160 thousand people owe to teleopers, and okay if we can't demand that these debts be settled, why can't we require a write-off of debts to the public sector? It is something that really, when asked as a question, we cannot get the answer “the debt must be returned. ” Debt has to come back, it keeps repeating itself, but that's not the case here.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32682	Dear Representative Tomašević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32683	Of course it can be done because we can see that since the government has made such conclusions to order its state-owned enterprises to write down claims and say, not only for those who have been damaged by earthquake objects but for everyone in a particular area. And now, apart from the earthquake, we have a pandemic that is economically and socially shaken all over Croatia and from that perspective means we can talk about the write-off of the claim, but we can also talk about the moratorium on the performance that would then be aimed at such claims. Where, then, it would involve not only public companies, but private companies that provide such services as teleoperatives. I think that, if a Slovenia could even do this for banks means introducing a moratorium on loans, then I think, for 12 months immediately because they assume that things will look, that even if the pandemic stops, that the socio-economic consequences will continue, I don't know why Croatia went 3 months and extended to 3 months, and then it stopped. And now we have exactly the same lockdown as we had in the spring when that moratorium was being introduced. It doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32684	Thank you, the replica will be a respected representative of the Bulls.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32685	Thank you very much. When this corona crisis began, the opposition also proposed certain legislative proposals such as the moratorium on loans and interest, so the government did not accept it immediately but later she proposed and the opposition unanimously accepted it as a moratorium on the ground, a unanimous opposition. So I accept this proposal with both hands because we have proposed this in the last term. at the beginning of the crown crisis. And that's when we said that moratorium on loans and interest. on loans and interest and executions must be minimum per year. Then we talked about it every day, we made amendments, suggestions, my club MOST and other clubs. You didn't accept that. But what's missing is I'll do it again. Banks in the Republic of Croatia are equivalent 4 billion kuna per year from commissions and fees not interest, net profits, they are solvable. The first decision by the Slovenian government was made by the moratorium on interest, on loans and interest not only on loans. Because what happened? When those three were here when the interest rate was the moratorium, then the interest went for a few months so that people paid, they had to pay the interest of the caterers, the workers, and basically the one that would eventually increase the entire loan. So that's the most important measure and it's not populism that brought the Slovenian government, the moratorium on loans and interest. No one forgives anyone here. But whether this government and Andrej Plenkovic have the courage to come to their bosses and tell them to do what the Slovenian government did and, of course, the Croatian non-national bank because everything except the National Bank. And very important teleopers have the highest profit in the Republic of Croatia. Do you know how much in the last '17, '18 and 19 years means 3 years apart from 2020 less concessions are paid by teleopers? 700 million kunas paid less. Do you know what decision came near the end of the last government of Andrej Plenkovic a few months before the election? They cut off the teleoperator frequency fee. How could they be forgiven? Some business. And the worst Internet we have, and the most expensive Internet, the biggest profits are teleoperators, and we often mention to our citizens, for example, now the workers of Brodotrogir, but there are a series of 6 months from the tycoon Končar who buys hotels that these employees don't pay for. And now they have a job, they have loans, they have no moratorium on loans and interest while teleopers and others reduce fees, concessions of course and frequency fees. It's about billions. It's without 2020. So where's the solidarity? So here the banks that have fees we're talking about on interest-free profits, we're not talking about interest, we're talking about 500 fees and fees I don't even know how to count. Where's the CNB shield in there? Whose role are they in? So I think the triba here is going to take two key measures because today a lady from my neighborhood calls me that she's going to get electrocuted if she doesn't pay right away. And she can't work, she works in catering and her husband. What do we do now? Is that solidarity? You show solidarity to those who have surpluses are banks and you show solidarity to teleopers who have the highest profit in the Republic of Croatia where their facilities are. Base stations set up without construction permits, but only in Croatia without construction permits. And it's not that I'm against advanced technologies, it's just that teleopers behave in Croatia like they come from there. So you forgive the rich, and the poor, the poor in this case you step. We must come to solidarity here, and the Covid crisis has shown that without solidarity it will not be good and that the people are rebelling, and whoever does not notice it rightly, the people are rightly rebelled by the businessmen, the entrepreneurs. And the workers. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32686	Thank you. The next debate will be the respected representative of Erik Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32687	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, we are here to discuss a regulation that has already been adopted that was in force, so we are only discussing the extension of its validity. Politically speaking, whether we should extend it or not depends on me on just one thing about one grade. And that's whether the situation is compared to when it's originally brought in better, worse or equal. If she's equal or worse, I don't see any reason why this proposal won't be accepted. That's the part about the act itself. Ideologically here we have a lot of strangers is a little, little bit of this weird to say. But that is because one of the definitions of the crisis of capitalism is that this will happen the moment when citizens will not be able to repay their loans. As a result, citizens will reduce consumption, consumption will reduce production, production will not need capital, and then we will have one excess or plasma crisis. The plasma crisis has already happened, and it is very recent within the EU, which is why our interest rates are as low as they are, although Croatian interest rates are relatively low compared to European interest rates, and for 20 years we have had a more or less fixed exchange rate between EUR and kuna, they can be defined as interest rates. So this is the question of moratorium or non-declaration for moratorium essentially means to measure or encourage the crisis of capitalism. The crisis of capitalism that Karl Marx certainly wanted very much. Not to approve this moratorium means to allow killing a cow for a liter of milk here.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32688	Thank you very much, there is no replica, so finally, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, a respected representative, Grozdana Peric, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32689	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, here colleagues want to forget the fact that on 31.3.2018 they owed more than 43 billion kuna in debt to consumers and companies. Consumers now owe only 16 billion kuna. It has been forgotten that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has written off a debt for 150,474 citizens and has unblocked those citizens and for the debts of up to 10,000 kunas that they had towards the state or legal persons owned by the state. Therefore, it was a situation of 31.12.2017. 154.474 persons were unblocked and totalled 1.4 billion kunas, so one time. Of which, over 850 million were long and about 490 million kunas of interest. It is also the same government that passed a law that makes it possible for FINA for those who have not been charged for more than 3 years to automatically suspend and for that period if it is longer than 6 months. This is precisely what allowed financial institutions to write off interest or debts as well, and this is recognised as a tax-accepted part of the deductions, allowing local self-government also to make write-offs for municipal compensation, for rents, for public areas. Let's not forget here is talking about not thinking about how high VAT is, so the VAT has been reduced to municipal services to basic food products. In addition, here you from Osijek are constantly saying how bad you are, how very difficult it is in Osijek etc., so Mr. Hajdukovic, what you are at the time, are here for how long you have done in your mandate for Slavonia and Osijek, nothing. This government has made it possible It allowed over $12.5 billion to be contracted just for five Slavonian counties. [[Let's not, not from the bench, please.]] That's what you're saying is that this government didn't do anything, but it did a lot more. A lot more than what you've been doing here all these years. [[Intruder: Please let's not from the bench, let's not from the bench.]] So this is how we try to say that we suddenly don't want to do anything, it's constantly done and it's done a lot, and it's exactly what we want to do to make these citizens have decent salaries, to have decent fees and to live decently in their own country.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32690	Thank you very much. The next final one will speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most High Representatives, the esteemed representative of Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32691	Here's behind a colleague on behalf of the HDZ Club, I remember when we brought together not so long ago a moratorium for three months, and the opposition supported it then, and before that, the opposition proposed it, but a few weeks ago, the months were only then the government and we supported it by both arms. The fact is that the current economic situation is much more difficult. Entrepreneurs for a long time and businessmen, guests have not worked for a long time, so they neither make their incomes, nor their workers, and of course social injustice is respected by colleagues if they are forgiven by teleopers who have the highest profits in the EU, which are forgiven in Croatia and are reduced by prices for certain fees and in a billion kuna. Which is why they wouldn't do that to our people who can't make their income that they've had until the crisis. It's not our fault for the crisis, it's the first one, so that's the first thing we should do. The other thing we'd like to do, it's not populism, it's not even local patriotism that they're stressing right now, and I often emphasize where you come from with it, you're tripping and proud and fighting for it. We try to do what Slovenia did first. We can't keep them to banks like they're face bear, more protected than anyone. It's a matter of solidarity, of justice. Banks have huge profits and profits and profits in the Republic of Croatia. And we have to minimum, even banks don't give anything except moratories on interest and loans. So if we say for a year an example or while the crisis is going on while this coronary crisis until then we have that deadline. And since then, they continue to pay for the anuity and that's what Slovenia has done. So this is not the question that it's some pulsism from the opposition, that it's now a proposal for opposition. Here I am from Sinj, 400 kilometers away I'm here for this law by my colleagues in the opposition. Why? To support him. And I would like to be in Sinj today, right now, but I think this law is fair, this bill of law, fair, solid, socially sensitive to the most vulnerable groups, to citizens who are not guilty of this situation, neither did the government say here now there will be a crisis of the crown. We can talk about the government's behaviour and certain measures in the crown crisis, that's another one, but nobody's guilty of this and at this point we have to make decisions and make laws that will be so-li-dar-ne, and not that still have profits teleopers being forgiven, they haven't cut the price or there's something better Internet, even online teaching somewhere in some parts, even in my Dalmatian Zagora children can't even be on online continue because they have to go to some hill or biggest top to get this Internet. So we're talking here about, not this attack on the government, but we have to do something about it. Cooking, in the people cooking, economics, entrepreneurs, caterers, workers, cooks in the people. It is forgiven and made possible for those who have too much and who have huge profits and huge profits that are forgiven and not solid in this crisis. And that's the key problem. And that's what the Croatian government and we, in particular we Parliamentarians, have the right to do. And because I stayed here today, I didn't go to Sinj, it's Friday, it's about 400 kilometers away, maybe now I'm the furthest from the MPs because I feel obliged to say this. Let me tell you, support this proposal. If it's hard for you to support from your colleagues in the opposition, you nail him, I'll support him. The same, so feel free to copy or modify it. I'll raise your hand right now. Just give it the same. And please see examples in other countries, I ask you on behalf of the citizens who are in a difficult situation, so you will see what Slovenia has done. There shouldn't be anything right now that smart and big intellectual, healthy logically thinking, has that social sensitivity to these people. And those who have a profit bank, the teleoperators didn't drop this burden on them, believe me. But in the fifth month, the government made a decision where it cut their frequency fees, cut them in half, and our citizens' cell phone bills weren't cut, no. The one in whose interest we're essentially in this crisis we're working on. Is it in the interest of the rich and those who have profit or to protect the endangered and all citizens in fact in the Republic of Croatia who are not responsible for this crisis, neither is the government, is no one, but we have to bring it together, so here I am. You're welcome to propose it. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32692	The next final word will be on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, the respected representative of Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32693	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, at the end of this week at the assembly first, Mr. Vice President, I would like to thank you on behalf of the legislator for having discussed this law in one normal time. Yesterday you intervened in the evening so it wouldn't be at the deaf hour of the night which is a positive shift, I hope such a practice and the future. The SDP club is one of the legislators of this law on behalf of the proposer, formally speaking on behalf of counterpart Bencic, and I will highlight some final thoughts. They must be a little philosophical at this time of day. The foundations of Plato's state are the idea of righteousness in which rulers must be wise, and producers are moderate and not gramistic. The wisdom of the rulers should therefore be based on justice, and that is to help or help those who at one point and not on their own guilt. The reason for the threat is, of course, the end of the economic or economic downturn, their economic activity for objective reasons of the Covida-19 pandemic, and one of the kinds of aid that should be provided to them is to stop the cash-based performance they have if it is, if it is, that they cannot pay for the termination of economic activity. And it's...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32694	Comrade Bull, let's let my colleague Bauk say yes, shall we?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32695	And that was done by the government of the Republic of Croatia last year in April, and the circumstances that are now in place are even a little bit more health-related and dramatic than they were back then. And even though it's rational to look at this subjectively, then the virus was unknown to us, and now it's a little bit more familiar and there's still a vaccine, and as far as numbers are concerned, they're far higher than they were back then. So that's one relative thing. In the law passed by the Croatian Parliament a few months ago, our amendment was accepted that the government could declare a moratorium by its decision. The government didn't do it because we needed to try and legally help her intervene so that he wasn't a good government's will but a commitment. Unfortunately, according to the testimony of the representatives of the parliamentary majority clubs, there will be no cracks in the same to witness the drama again, so we are aware of what the fate of this proposal will be, but it is good to repeat once again that citizens see how at least we who have received their trust to be even the opposition see the way they should be, how they should be helped. So, as far as the government is concerned, we don't have too much hope that something here is about to change, although there's one bug in the ear, and that's that maybe before the local elections, he'd throw that joker out of his sleeve if things didn't get better, but let's just say that it stays on the political, political evaluation. We call on the club representatives and MPs to vote on this bill to support it and declare a moratorium to be applied to money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32696	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the promoter, she will speak to the esteemed representative Bencic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32697	Thank you, Vice President. I'll be careful from time to time. So, we've heard all sorts of arguments here today, and I think it's important that we all go somewhere and realize a few of the crucial things that I deeply believe absolutely all of us here agree on regardless of what political options we're from. So I'm sure we can agree first that special circumstances are still going on. If there wasn't someone who thought they weren't going to last. And I'm sure we all agree that now these special circumstances are deeper and more serious than in April last year because they last longer because we had an earthquake and because this last wave of pandemics has put such pressure on the health system that we really had to give up many economic activities and that many people are unable to earn and work. Can we also agree that the introduction of moratorium last year was a good move, I think you introduced it, we agree that it was a good move, all the opposition then agreed to be introduced. How is it possible that now is not a good move if we are 10 months later in an even more complex situation and an even more socially serious situation and with an even greater number of people at risk than we were back then? Also, whether we can agree that the moratorium is not enough and we know that it is not enough, but that we need radical changes within the system of performance to ensure that on the one hand we really quickly charge the believers, but on the other hand they put the fuses in so that the executions don't push people over the edge of existence. And that's what's happening to us. We have made a number of proposals for these systems and those fuses, and I am sure there is no one here who thinks we should, for example, not allow the court to keep an eye on the statute of limitations. And to make the same commitment, for example, to the law enforcement agencies, so they can't charge the debts that are out of date. Is that such a problem? And that every single one of you I'm talking to you, I'm sure you'd agree that it's nothing that would be beyond any normality or something that wouldn't help our citizens. There may be someone here who I think is, but we're in the opposition to this, we're pushing for that to limit the profit-required debts to the claim-paying agencies. To buy their debts for 20% of their value, and to charge them with interest, with interest, their 100% value, and that the whole difference is their profit and that we don't have a tax on that extra profit. Did they create a new value? They didn't create a new value. We don't put a special tax on it, we let it go that way. I hope there aren't any people here who think it's good and normal. Also, does anyone here think it is useful or effective to keep people in a financial blockade for 3 years and longer? And it's normal to have 200,000 people blocked and completely excluded from economic life and financial? 200,000 people or more how during which period we push into the gray economy, we push them towards a gray economy by doing so. 30% of GDP according to the calculation of international organisations among other World Banks that we so generously engage in various jobs, 30% of GDP is the value of the grey economy in Croatia. Well, see what you can do with that 30%. We wouldn't even have a problem rebuilding it, and we keep pushing people into this gray economy. Also, are there any who think, and nobody here has said, that the measures you've brought that you MPs have now repeated that you brought them here, that they don't think they were good? Well, we supported them all and nobody said they weren't good. What we're saying is that now these measures are more necessary than ever, and that's why we don't understand the government's refusal to refuse the ruling majority here to implement them now that actually their effect is maximum. We heard here today that last year there was again savings or citizens' deposits because some in this crisis of course have become rich. It doesn't surprise us because at global level, too. We see that those who have already had a lot that have earned even more in this crisis. So we had the last time I looked at the concentration of savings or Gina's coefficient, which is the coefficient of inequality was 94%. So 100% is the perfect inequality. Zero is perfect equality. 94% of people, almost perfect inequality. And then when we propose proposals that I also know that, individually, many of you would agree on a tax system that would transform that fact of inequality, you disagree. When you see that what we've been saying for years as activists and other politicians, don't, don't jump in and buy into various consulting tips that tell you to privatise public services because you'll eventually get into a situation that you won't be able to manage this country's strategic infrastructure right now, here in 2021 you see why. And if I hear again here that we need privatisation because it will be a more effective way of managing this country's strategic infrastructure, then we really need to think about whether any dialogue here makes sense because today we see what the consequences of this privatisation are. The other day, when we saw that Mrs. Martina Dalic was sent to the head of Podravka, it was just the first thing that came to mind. And another strategic company that is important to us at times of food crisis will be privatized until the end because Martina Dalic is usually the person who is sent when such things need to be done, but of course we will take great care of it. So, just to repeat, we're not looking for anything that hasn't already been done. We admit that some things have been done in recent years in a way that they have had the social character to help those most endangered. What we're saying is that we need to do this now to prevent a very deep crisis that can happen to us beyond the sixth month of this year. And why did we also give the deadline until the 6th month of this year? For two reasons, we expect that most of the population will be able to split up by then and that we will be able to start functioning normally as an economy. Another thing for which we believe that by the 6th month, if we are all stuck together, we can pass a fair new executive law, not cosmetic amendments, but a brand-new executive law that will prevent such situations from happening in the future, so there will be no need for moratorians or we will not have to resort more often. Once again, we have to understand that we are in a position that is unprecedented. She won't stop anytime soon. The consequences will only be seen in the years to come and they will be deep and serious. We need to be ready to come out of the development concept that we've had so far which brought us here we are and start working on a new concept that will be more resistant to this kind of crisis. So we have to break up with the rent economy, we have to break down from actually living from a monocultural economy, based on tourism and on, one or two other branches on the side. Yes now, that now is the opportunity to go into what you have threatened many times, which is to make the state a leader in innovation and to manage them and to open new jobs and to invest in the economy and to invest itself in re-industry because waiting for Godot called a foreign investor is not going to happen, b) when he does not come to give, comes to exploit, a) people as cheap labour, b) our natural resources. And then we end up in this cycle where we have 230,000 blocked because they don't have quality jobs, because they can't live without pay, and then we have more mass of those who don't even come to pay. So I hope we take this opportunity, thank you for your patience and attention this Friday afternoon.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32698	Stay a little longer, we have two replicas. He is the first respected representative of Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32699	Dear colleague Bencic, I don't share your pessimism so much that HDZ refuses. I mean, I'm a bigger optimist, I guess we'll probably discuss it the same way, but at the parliamentary majority's initiative before the local elections. But I'd also like to ask for another comment. I also asked professional staff here in the assembly because one of the arguments that you don't need to go to an extension of the moratorium is that the wages are increased and then I also wonder, well how much your salary has been increased and it was between 30 and 40 kuna not. Is that enough to stop the execution?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32700	Dear representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32701	Thank you, Vice President. Honestly, when it comes to issues like this, the ruling majority comes in a month and says it's a shame that the opposition never suggested such a thing, here we propose, I would vote for it because I don't care if we impose ourselves on it, honestly, at all, because this issue is a hundred thousand people's existence. So if you want to come up with this as your idea I'll sign whatever needs to be signed and we all probably, because that's not the question there are other questions where we can clearly get out and share. As for the increase in wages as a consequence of tax reform, that's what we talked about then, so it's a shame that those who need it the most are increased salaries by two coffees a month, and that for us who need it the least is increased by 1,000 kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32702	Thank you. And there is also a rep of Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32703	My colleagues right now in this reply to the replica you said that thought that I wanted to tell the rulings, which you are now sending from this pay phone. At any moment when the majority of the ruling, it was also in the past term at the beginning of the crisis, proposes such changes to the laws where the moratorium is to be applied, a moratorium on interest and loans and similar laws that will help socially endangered citizens in this crown crisis, we will accept and vote. And the opposition was constructive. The whole time, the crown of the crisis, the opposition was making proposals to the government. The same was the case, and before the first opposition was made at the beginning of the crisis, then a week, two were given by the Croatian government and we accepted it as an opposition. So the message you're sending, which the opposition parliamentary representatives of all clubs are sending, give us this bill, we'll all unanimously support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32704	Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32705	Thank you. Yes, it is actually surprising that after so many years in power the ruling majority does not understand one thing, which is that real state behavior, true leadership also includes the ability to accept the proposals of others and the joint decision-making that are for the common good. And what is still not understood here is that in this way you get more political points than by resisting the opposition's proposals, which are clearly rational and clearly going towards the benefit of the public or the socially endangered population, much more. Because in two weeks those citizens who will be unblocked won't know if this Bull suggested, me or Rada, will say the government brought it. And I don't understand that. It's the element of not knowing the political reality.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-02-05-1.u32706	Thank you. That's why I'd like to conclude a debate on this point. We'll vote on it when the conditions are met. We'll finish work today and continue on Wednesday 10. The final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Completion of the Investment Encouragement Act, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. Number 104. Have a nice, pleasant evening. Session interrupted at 18.14 hours.
