ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-24-0.u57751	As I said at the outset, since it was clear that we would have finished an hour ago, and normally either after the vote was completed or after the discussion that we had free speeches or delivered views on behalf of the club of representatives and independent representatives. We would now approach this if you could still inform anyone if you wanted to, then I encourage you to take advantage of this opportunity, so we would move on to that now and the first one will speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most esteemed Representative Marin Miletic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-24-0.u57752	Dear Vice President HS Mr. Reiner, Mr. Bucaric, dear colleagues and colleagues. I would like to point to the Croatian public today on just a few more important things. A union of nurses and technicians held a protest, people gathered in Zrinjevac and pointed out to the Croatian public a number of difficulties they face on a daily basis. It is likely that the Croatian public remembers those days when the top-of-the-line directors were organised clapping with the windows of health workers, and then somehow it seems to me that now is the time when these same employees or at least part of the employees, so here if they can be painted, still a little more slaps, somehow they are not clapping, now they are getting a little bit more slaps. One nurse, according to the union of nurses and technicians, works for two, and many nurses work for 3 persons, for 3 nurses. It's interesting that they work more than 110 hours a year than they do. Judges, e.g. The chiefs, who have, have a more reward for the holiday than the sisters are paid a working day on that same holiday. Is it fair, is it fair, if we want to build a society of justice, that society honors the way we treat medical professionals? I'd like to point out another difficulty here. If we live in a democratic society, and many of our breasts are flooded by drilling swearing in the world democracy as long as it suits them, and when it doesn't answer them, then there's no democracy, but we impose on you because we know what to think, how you're going to think and how you're going to act and what decisions you're going to make. That's the team you know who swears to tolerance, and in fact they're tolerance only for those who think as well as they are, and as soon as you show a little different thinking right now, hitting on the head and shooting out of their guns, it's not tolerance. Tolerance is one attitude of openness, it doesn't mean that I agree with you, but I accept you as a man, as a person with your attitudes, thinking, but I have the right to my own opinion and I have the right to my own thinking. More than 27,000 doctors, nurses, and healthcare professionals refused to vaccinate on their conscience. It's legitimate, so it's legitimate and it brought out the data in the end and this union was talking about it. And we now these people are almost 30,000 people in health care, which we want, we want to chase them, is that what Minister Beroš wants, is to chase the nurses, and this part of the doctor who hasn't been vaccinated, the medics, who's going to work for us, who we want to import, whom, whom I don't know, Afghans, Indians, etc., I don't know who, if we're going to drive our people out of our country, as if we don't have any problems with demographics as if we don't have problems that really burdened us, we're going to drive these people differently. What's a fact, I've said it several times in this honorable home, there are risk groups when we talk about Covid. Covid is very much here among us, dangerous to risk groups, old, powerless, sick people, for people who have threatened and for those with diabetes. There's no argument that children are being vaccinated, there's no argument that people who are in the tension of power, who are healthy, there's no argument, but there are, there are stakeholders who are in the interest of it, but there's no sound argument. And it's amazing, then, that you have such an argument with an expert, so some of the rabid turns out if there's no argument. So, if we know that people who have been vaccinated are also passing the virus because these facts are true in a much smaller volume than unvaccinated, but they do, so what's Covid's passport for? That people who have been vaccinated go to hospitals, nursing homes and spread the virus there, so let's get rid of Covid's passports. And this is also sending kids into isolation, so that's scary. You have the Ministry's guidance, then the directors are afraid because they're afraid of their shadows, they're afraid of their shadows, our directors honoring exceptions, then they send the whole classes into isolation, and the minister clearly said the kid outside, next to whether to send it, and that's to go on teaching. And the directors, in fear, send everything into isolation. Let's get people in on common sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-24-0.u57873	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Ljubica Lukacic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-24-0.u57874	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, here I am going to talk a little bit about this week where we are, which is marked as the International Week of the Deaf, and what week is founded by the decision of the World Federation of the Deaf to 2. The World Congress of the Deaf in Zagreb. Thus, this week marks the various events that, in the organisation of deaf and deaf throughout the Republic of Croatia, mark for reasons to warn of problems and everything that is well done for a non-hearing population. National celebrations began in 1957 in Milan, and the World Federation decided in 1958 that here every year the last Saturday of September is also marked as the International Day of Deaf Persons, which is this year tomorrow September 25th. So, a long time ago, 100 years ago, in fact, deaf people began to gather in their associations, and this was the first association of deaf people in Zagreb to wear, gathered at a cafe Royal in Ilica 44 and wore the name Dobrovart. So, 100 years ago, in 1921, the deaf began, I would say, fighting for my rights. They felt that they had the right to education, to have the right to live like all other citizens around the world. Communication is something that is important to every man I would say most important because it is very important for us to understand each other, and then it is important that we understand others but that others understand exactly what we want to say. In order for this to be possible for deaf people who have this very communication, voice communication is a problem, they differ from the hearing population exactly by the signs. According to the signs we have called sign language since September 23rd, so yesterday's day is marked as the International Sign Language Day. Each nation has its own cultural-language minority of deaf people and its national sign language and every country on that very day, in different ways it points to the existence of them and stresses the importance of deaf and national sign language as an important part of the common cultural heritage. On that day, the challenges facing the deaf community are discussed and the public and the institutions are aware of how important one language is in all segments of the lives of individuals. I would like to point out that it is my special honor and pride that the Croatian Parliament has done for our deaf citizens and the Croatian Government that the meetings of the Croatian Parliament are translated into sign language, as well as the meetings of the Croatian Government and here we can thank our President Jandrokovic, as well as the President of the Croatian Government for sitting down with the Alliance of the Deaf City of Zagreb, and here we have realized that our deaf citizens need and day-to-day politics I would say bring them to their own homes. They can't exactly keep up with all the news on TV, there are those who translate into sign language. But when they follow the session directly, they get full information. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-24-0.u57962	The next club of MPs will be that of the Homeland Movement, and the respected representative of Ante Prkacin will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-24-0.u57963	Vice-President of the Assembly, colleagues and colleagues, respected viewers because they told me at the club and also at home that a lot of you should follow me before I start this free speech so I can look back at the people who follow us and the public people who are following us and commenting. I take off my hat to those who insult me, as well as to those who praise me if they take serious part in the debate or if they seriously analyze what I said. But I had to look back at a group of lost souls, and otherwise, it's a Croatian characteristic. The less mind a man has, the smarter he is. I know so many self-absorbed smart people who could learn a lot of things, shut up, and that coward who can't just run and jump. For what? My sister's the head administrator, and everything doesn't come to mind to look at who's writing. Now the best ones are those who say who cares, leave these topics, talk about the economy, get us out of the crisis. Here you go, Mrs. Oreshkovic and you 10, 15, 20 here who say so much about it that nothing more, that someone listens to you should do nothing more than accept your suggestions and advice. Who cares? And let's just say, that's my theme to fix 50 or 150 thousand people, and nobody else is looking at it. So those who insult me, honor each and every one of you, and those who praise me, it's clear in themselves, and now that I'm talking about the subject that I came out of because I flew in at the last minute from the Home Movement Club, when something extraordinary happens, I'm an intervention platoon. So last time I asked for an urgent response to this scandalous law with the Serbian Orthodox Church 18 years ago. For what? If this, no, sorry law, that contract, if this Treaty were to be annulled, you would see what would happen in Montenegro, it would be a blow to that Satanic institution and the situation would be completely different. After that he proposed to stop the census, he was done with a tendency to increase the number of Serbs and the number of Orthodox Church members, the Serbian Orthodox Church in Croatia, so to say something, how did they become of Orthodox Serbs in Croatia? One short hour of history. So when the Turks came to these parts, not these but the ones below, they were beside them, so the Turks treated the local population in two ways. One was driven, and the other one was led. Since they needed light troops, they were in the space of Bulgaria, Romania, Serbia from the Vlach nomadic population because the Turks were too smart, they did not raise warlords to the army but nomads who were easily mobile by the nature of their work and life. Then, it was the nomadic Vlach population that made easy provisions that went with the Turkish army, so they would come, the Turks were at war with the burned country method, burning these.../incomprehensible parts of the Catholic region, and then trying to settle the population in those Croatian areas. And it becomes them. However, the population is as shifty as it is; Austria comes, they accept Austrian rule. I believe that you have all heard of the Vlach laws that specifically favored this population, so far away that one part of the Croats is close, then there was not too much of this division of Croatians and Serbs, it was not then discussed but in Catholics and Orthodoxs. So, you have an interesting case here again I spend too much time, you have a Chetnik Duke in the Face of Peshut, you have a Chetnik Duke of Chork and Doshen. Search Serbia from beginning to end, you won't find that name anywhere. These are Croats, Catholics who are due to the Vlach laws, etc., you know what I'm talking about. That these Serbs, these Orthodox people in Croatia are not Serbs, that Serbia knows well because it has betrayed them whenever it should have been. They serve Serbia for a great Serbian idea. I need to talk about the Flash and Storm that no one has ever said. Several Orkans, rocket systems, 7 dead, 200 wounded, we on our knees, cannot defend ourselves. After that, the storm begins and the average Serb officer knows how to defend Krajina. It can not be defended from such a motivated Croatian army on the line, but when the Croatian army comes, the Orcans go around Zagreb and around first, and then the Moons go after it. There is no Luna or Orcan because by some arrangement it went to Serbia, they were left here to be cannon food, of them now Milorad Pupovac, with a serious Suport of Croatian authorities who do not understand it, should be made again by Serbs, and a good part of these people is aware of how many Serbs they are, as far as they are not. The Serbs need to be re-made from them, so they should be sent back to Serbia by our grandchildren in 50 years. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-24-0.u57964	... Thank you. [[Specially enabled.]] That's what we're done with today's work. We will continue the session on Wednesday, September 29th at 9:30 p.m. by delivering the position of club representatives. Have a nice weekend. Session adjourned at 10.35 hours. The next club of MPs will be the IDS, and the esteemed representative Katarina Nemet will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-24-0.u58010	Thank you. Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues in the meeting of the World Tourism Day, I stress that despite the many difficult circumstances caused by the pandemic of the coronal virus and the great uncertainty that preceded us is an unexpectedly successful tourist season. In fact, we are witnessing a solid tourist visit and these days already in the second half of September, and according to the announcements and booking of the current season or better said tourist year could be extended further. The situation, I believe, was not even hoped for by the greatest optimists, who can only enjoy us all knowing the importance of tourism for Croatia and the Croatian economy. As a representative from Istria, I am particularly pleased that this region has been among the best again. What the best tourist results are again achieved in Istrian cities and municipalities, which Istria has again proven responsible, conscious and ready to meet all the challenges successfully. Therefore, I would also like to extend my great thanks and congratulations to all the tourist workers who have brought this difficult and demanding season on their backs, but also to all others who have helped with their conscious and responsible behavior to take place so successfully despite all the pandemic challenges. In a literal daily struggle to get the most out of these circumstances, tourist workers were faced with a number of challenges and problems they faced in walking, adapting themselves to them, and they seemed very good and successful. Once again, all I can do is tell people the right thing to do. They did their best. However, the tourism sector whose income is reminded is extremely important 20% of Croatia's GDP, which is also the best export channel of the national economy, needs adequate support from the state because we are aware of the fact that the next year our competitors, who have been significantly less present on the market, will almost certainly return to the tourist game, and competition for each guest will be even more demanding and even more difficult. And these competitors have been enjoying country support for years far greater and more effective than what our country provides for our tourism, which has put our tourism sector in an unfavourable position compared to competition. First of all, I will highlight the problem of the great fiscal and parafiscal burden that has put the Croatian tourist dam in an unfavourable position compared to competition from other tourist countries for years. I know I repeat myself, that I have already talked about it from this place, but I will not give up insisting that Croatian tourism be dispersed by great fiscal and many unnecessary parafiscal burdens. And again, I will appeal to the Croatian government, Prime Minister Plenkovic, Minister Maric, to seek the support of Minister Brnjak to understand the inevitable need, to show good will and understanding, and to take concrete steps towards fiscal and parafiscal discharge for which our tourism simply calls out. What Croatian tourism certainly needs and what I think is a kind of zero basis for all other activities is a new strategy for tourism development. As far as the public knows, it has been in the making now and too long and it is finally time to bring an end, to define new directions and frameworks for tourism development and to address some key issues in this for Croatia's important sector. As part of the strategy, it will certainly be necessary to focus on sustainable development and redefine the overall tourist offer with the agreement of all key stakeholders. But what is most important to me, I will point out by who knows which way, that in the end we will not only get a document in which something will be nice and sound written, not to get any wish list but to be a realistic and implementing strategic platform based on which Croatian tourism will develop and grow in the years ahead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-24-0.u58083	The next club of representatives will be that of the Centre and GLAS, and will be spoken by the respected representative Marijana Puljak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-24-0.u58084	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, here I am today again on a local topic that has earned big headlines in the daily newspaper, and the title this time is "Children in the Long War are not poisoned with chromium, but the area of the former factory should be renovated as soon as possible". The Long War samples were found in samples, so this is the author of research in the presence of heavy metals in the baby salt, so these samples in the Long War area found chromium concentrations in the first chair of newborns that accumulated over 6 months. It's actually scary. What's going on? In the area of the former factory Dalmatia Dugi Rat, a beautiful tourist resort should be established by now. Thus, the investor Project Uvala announced whether it had been a tourist resort for years, and announced the ministry's conduct at a recent presentation on September 14th. So, what they had an obligation to do up to today, they didn't, which is that they had to resuscitate the space of that factory, to resuscitate that area that today, where the cost is present and which is influenced by the sun, under the influence of the sea, is actually raining that content of that cost becomes carcinogenic and threatens the health of the inhabitants. What happened from the chronology of polluting all that space? So in 2011, the company Project Uvala pollutes a part of the former factory's land, which is owned by chromium-6 and polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons. So the local population is exposed to carcinogenic substances through air, water, and soil pollution. The state-owned company Project Uvala ordered an emergency land recovery due to the health threat of the population. In 2014, the company completed the reconstruction programme, adopted by the Ministry and the relevant institutions in 2015 and gave them the deadline until the end of 2019, and until 25.11.2019, respectively, when it is necessary to resuscitate that space. However, the Uvala project did absolutely nothing. After that, the deadline by force of the law of the state becomes mandatory to resuscitate the land. It's 2021 today, nothing happened until today, the state has not fulfilled its obligation. Now, in 2021, the Dugi Rat municipality is finding funds to resuscitate EU funds from the ITU mechanism. So she can do that, she's looking for property over the rest of the land. Since the company Project Uvala now, this hour wants to buy the rest of the land and is in negotiations with the ministry, in negotiations with the State Inspectorate and re-promises some sort of recovery process, the question is, to the ministry, will you agree that those who have so far had nothing to do, again some fictitious recovery, promises, fictitious promises, actually come back to a valuable land because what is hidden in the background is what the citizens of the color is, it is that here is in the fundamental interest to reach valuable land and that of the company that has been insolvent for years, records losses, and in addition, there are also doubts in connection with suspicious sources of money from tax havens. So, here, I've been trying to reach the minister for a few days, weeks, texting, trying to talk to him, he's not responding. Here, a citizens' initiative that advocates the interests of citizens, this Sunday has a protest in Dalmatia's Long War, and here I call on all parliamentary representatives from the 10th constituency to join the protest and more that citizens face. I call on the minister, the ministry, to leave it to the municipality of Dugi Rat, so the unit of local self-government to take advantage of the opportunity from EU funds to move towards the recovery of that area because the citizens of that area and their health deserve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-24-0.u58268	The next club of representatives will be that of the SDP, according to the respected representative Martina Vlasic Iljkic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-24-0.u58269	Thank you. Good afternoon, everyone. Dear fellow MPs, fellow MPs, respected fellow MPs. Yesterday we witnessed presidential events related to media censorship, as well as everything that happened after that, which is the resignation of Poliklinka Gordana Buljan Flander. Not entering the proceedings of individual debates and cases until they are cleared, we have condemned the court's ruling on a temporary measure and banning future writing of a particular portal on the disputed Child and Youth Protection Center of the City of Zagreb. Although journalists have been going out for the past two months, everything has culminated precisely around the National Day of Combating Violence against Women and has brought into question the work of the Child and Youth Protection Poliklinic, the way children are trained, and the possible influence of the principal on the further course of procedures with competent institutions. What we must stress here is certainly the protection of the interests of children and that further responsibility, for everything that will happen and affect the direction of the work of professional workers, is precisely at the Ministry of Labour, Pension Insurance, Family and Social Policy. The procedures for trusting children are in the jurisdiction of courts, but professional work and adoption of opinions on this is at centres for social care, depending on the need for a case, when requesting the adoption of findings and opinions of the Poliklinika za zaštitu djece i mladih grada Zagreba. Indeed, this Polyclinic determines and determines art for the entire Republic of Croatia, and that is what needs to be changed, not entering at this time into the expertise and conduct of the Poliklinika. I believe that it is necessary to further develop and reduce the centralised of the system, enable funding and development of institutions and in other regions that would certainly be more accessible to users, and also prevent a monopoly or impression of power that has a certain institution. All the environments throughout the Republic of Croatia have their experts dealing with the protection of the rights and interests of children from their portfolios, whether they are doctors, psychologists, social workers and for the development of good practice and in other areas, can only in this way strengthen the professionalism and protection of children's rights. It is a very ungrateful position in which professionals cannot comment while parties describe their experience without the other side. It is very complex and difficult when informal parties should be led in the right direction, and this is the way of children's interests. Both such informal parties are highly manipulative and such divorces are highly conflicting. Public space is a way of talking about important topics, and in this case violence against women, children, abuse and neglect, but with the opinion of the public, it is also very important that the profession is represented in the creation of an opinion. We appeal to the Minister in charge to actively question the direction of the development of social policy in the area of the protection of children's interests, to clarify everything that has appeared in the media area, but that the ministry is finally being imposed as a driver of change in the social care system. All cases are not uniform and no one is a winner unless we put the child in focus. There is a need for wide debate and full involvement of those who carry out procedures in accordance with the legal rules, because otherwise we will have both castings and resistance experts from the area. I repeat, the centralisation of the system is not good, this is an opportunity for the ministry to allow the development of practices in other areas as I repeat the expert we may have insufficient but certainly valuable investments to avoid potential power centres and facilitate the availability of services to users. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-24-0.u58314	Thank you very much. The next club of MPs will be that of HSLS and Reformers, and the respected representative Dario Hrebak will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-24-0.u58315	Dear and distinguished and vice-president of the Croatian Parliament, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, I will today try to sum up one issue which is extremely alarming at present in Croatian society, in Croatian economy, in Croatian agriculture, and may have tragic consequences if we do not perform in time and do all those measures that can be taken to save Croatian agriculture in the form of Croatian livestock. The disaster is therefore in the field of primary meat production, milk, eggs, so this disaster is indeed on the right side. You can see for yourself that inflation has taken hold, that inputs from various raw materials used precisely by our Croatian farmers and Croatian cattlemen are simply growing, and on the other hand meat as supplies, as food does not grow at all. So they're literally now on their knees right now. The problems of the sector in particular the structural disadvantages of Croatian livestock farming, the difficulties in the business of producers caused and the pandemics of Covid and the latest of course these disorders which I have also talked about on the raw materials market in the form of an enormous increase in food prices, repromaterials, fertilisers and energy. During the last years, livestock production in Croatia has gone through a wide range of challenges, curvature of the skin, disturbances in the cattle market due to Covid, and an enormous increase in the prices of cereals and cattle. Such a sequence of events poses an existential threat to the very idea of livestock production in the future, and without some help from the state or competent ministries, the situation will not be significantly improved. This is also the subject of a scientific study done by experts from the Faculty of Agrobiotechnical Sciences in Osijek, based on the situation of cattle farmers in the Republic of Croatia, given the emerging disturbance in the cereals market. This way we want as a club, as a party, clearly, unequivocally point to all these dangers. Someone will say why the liberals here worry too much about agriculture, so it's not your primary topic. Our primary topic is always to protect both interests and Croatian farmers, for me personally Croatian farmers are also entrepreneurs who have to survive, and we don't have to even talk about how much for Croatia, sovereign for the Croatian national component how important it is that we produce and that we have our own self-sufficiency that we don't always have to look for everything on foreign markets because I simply think that Croatian cattlemen won't have a big chance in the future. What are the measures, what are the proposals? We have short-term measures, so they themselves suggest that the short-term damage compensation measure in the existing production of juniper meat is as shown in these calculations of the Faculty of Agrobiotechnical Sciences in Osijek. Long-term measures to preserve existing production and.../incomprehensible/... self-sufficiency are of course that the new Law on Agricultural Land owned by the Republic of Croatia must be given priority, clear and unambiguous agricultural land precisely in the larger segment of livestock production, to introduce the element of the conditional throat. On the other hand, the livestock sector is given priority for green energy production. So it's a great possibility that our cattlemen, farmers, have the opportunity to use and put green components on their facilities, therefore from solar plants, from using some other types of renewable energy sources in order to raise their additional competitiveness, but we also meet certain criteria in terms of conditions that we need to meet regarding green energy. In the programming period, no production-related payments should be reduced, that is their opinion that we support. Activate as wide a range of benefits as possible from measure 14. Rural Development Fund. So that as many of them as we can get our producers to apply. Sectoral competitions under Rural Development measure 4 shall be opened each year for all sectors. So, at this point in time, European funds are the most important to them. In the belief that these proposals will be found on the trail of a long-term solution that would make livestock production sustainable and develop to self-sufficiency for the Republic of Croatia, I call on all relevant institutions from the ministry, professional associations, from the Government of the Republic of Croatia to urgently and unreservedly find some of these measures to move immediately into realisation because it will simply be the end for cattlemen. This situation they now have is really very, very serious to them. I believe that we, within the ruling coalition, will open this topic at coalition meetings and find adequate solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-24-0.u60449	Dear colleagues and colleagues, there are still two colleagues, these gentlemen and gentlemen representatives. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 226.St. 2. I propose to the Rules of Procedure to supplement the 8th session agenda with 10 new points. You received this proposal by electronic means to supplement the agenda. How appropriate. The 225th century 4th century. The rules of procedure of the written objections on the proposal to supplement the agenda were not available, I would like to confirm that all the proposed items were included in the agenda of the session, 8th session. Honored MPs and MPs, based on art. 247. I propose that the following two points be implemented as a united debate, which is: - The final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of an Investment Protection Agreement between the EU and its Member States on the one hand and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam on the other hand, the second reading, P.Z. No. 165th and - Final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of an Investment Protection Agreement between the EU and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Singapore, of the other part, the second reading, P.Z. No. 166. Is there any objection that we should spend this way? There isn't. If he doesn't, we'll have a united discussion. Before we begin the debate, I would like to inform you that after the debate is concluded, as is usual, we will move on to the presentation of the position of the club of representatives i.e. As soon as we're done, we won't wait 13 hours, we'll probably finish much sooner, so we'll immediately move on to a representative's position. Please inform colleagues who are not here, unfortunately most of them are not, that they know to come and if they wish to state on behalf of the club or their own position. As regards these points, the proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia 207a. The Rules of Procedure of HS. The above-mentioned Article. 207a. The Rules of Procedure stipulates that the laws to be approved in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia by international contracts are, as a rule, adopted in a single reading. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 1(1). 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Foreign Policy. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State Zdenko Lucic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-24-0.u60450	I would like to thank Mr. Chairman, respected MPs and MPs. The objective of these two agreements is to improve the investment climate between the EU and Singapore and Vietnam. Agreements are expected to benefit EU investors in terms of ensuring a high level of investment protection, while protecting EU and Member States' rights to regulate and implement public policy objectives such as public health, security and the environment. The agreements shall contain provisions on investment protection and dispute settlement between investors and parties, and dispute settlement between parties. The agreements are based on a new EU approach to protecting investment and resolving investment disputes similar to that of a comprehensive economic and trade agreement between Canada on the one hand and the EU and its Member States on the other, which HS confirmed in 2017. Investors from the EU and their investments shall be able to treat fair and fair treatment and protection against discrimination against domestic investment and to protect against illegal expropriation. The agreement establishes a permanent international and fully independent dispute settlement system consisting of a first-degree and appeal court to carry out dispute settlement proceedings in a transparent and impartial manner. The agreement also takes into account the financial situation of investors and allows certain benefits for small and medium-sized enterprises. In order to enter into force, the agreement should be confirmed by all parties in accordance with their respective internal legal procedures. The European Parliament has given its agreement and called for the rapid ratification of the agreement. The implementation of the agreement does not require the provision of additional financial resources from the State budget of the Republic of Croatia. Taking into account the nature of the procedure for the confirmation of international contracts and the fact that amendments and additions to the text of international contracts cannot be made at this stage of the procedure, proposals for laws are proposed and adopted by an urgent procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-24-0.u60451	Thank you very much. Are the committee's reporters now going to take the floor? On behalf of the Committee on Foreign Policy, Honorable Representative Zdravka Busic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-24-0.u60452	... Okay, it wasn't me, I didn't touch anything. [[Last-on speaker]] Good morning, Mr. Vice President. On 23 September 2021, the Committee on Foreign Policy of the HS held its 10th session. It considered the Final Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of an Investment Protection Agreement between the EU and its Member States, of the one part, and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, of the other part, the Second Reading, the Proposal for a Law No. 165, which was submitted to the President by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to act on 16 July 2021, as well as the Final Proposal for a Law confirming an investment protection agreement between the EU and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Singapore, of the other part, the Proposal for a Law No. 166th to the president of the assembly, HS delivered the Government of the Republic of Croatia with the Act also since 16 July 2021. The Committee on Foreign Policy discussed, discussed the final proposals in question as a home working body in accordance with Article. 67. The Rules of Procedure of HS. After explaining the proposal's representative because yesterday we had a representative of the motion, and the debate was held, the Committee decided unanimously with 7 votes to propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of these two laws, not to repeat, I have already noted which these are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-24-0.u60453	Thank you very much. I am opening the debate and the first one on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club will speak with a respected representative, Domagoj Hajdukovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-24-0.u60454	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President HS, Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. So we have two laws on EU cooperation, that is, its Member States and two Asian countries. I would also consider this positive because the Asian space was economically speaking, it became inevitable when we talk about investment and when we talk, of course, about the market and it is actually commendable that the EU recognized it, first of all, in the case of these two countries, so Singapore, which is a small country, but economically strong and socialist Republic of Vietnam, which, in spite of the possible connotations to which some have this prefix, is a very strong economic factor, a strong market, and is developing more and more rapidly and breaking into other markets, including European markets. I think it is very good that the EU protects its investors in this area, and let us bear in mind that Singapore and a member of ASEAN, if I am not mistaken, this is also the first such case that the EU makes this kind of contract with a member of the ASEAN. So, which protects EU investors who are certainly of interest both in Vietnam and Singapore, we know that investment, especially in Vietnam, is now not adequate for Singapore, either from the EU or from our Member States, will now be more secure, or their investments will be safer. This is, of course, an opportunity for those few companies that can invest outside Croatia, if they decide to enjoy the protection offered by EU membership, but also one of the advantages of EU membership, which we often forget, which is that our interests, our investors, our economic operators, our citizens are better protected towards other, or third countries that are not EU members. Also, this opens up opportunities for investment from the countries mentioned in the EU as a principle of reciprocity, it can also interest us as Croatia because of potential investments, above all, from Singapore, but I say I would not underestimate Vietnam, we had last or before last year, I cannot swear to you now, a serious delegation from SR Vietnam that was in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but have visited some other institutions in Croatia and have actually expressed a desire to get closer to more intense political contacts, but above all, for more intense economic contacts, because Vietnam is a tourist destination, but Vietnam is, as I said, also an economy that is rapidly expanding and Croatia can also use its geographical position to be the way to the EU for these countries. Also, when we talk about Singapore, I don't think there's anything special to elaborate on, Singapore is also a strong economy, a strong economy, which can also invest abroad. Also, I know that some Croatian entities have been looking for potential, i.e. opportunities, to explore the possibilities of investments in Singapore. There is, above all, the export of our food products, primarily wine which, as I am informed, is increasingly consumed, since Singapore has a very large population, such as non-residents, or unborn in Singapore, so demand is constantly growing. Therefore, in short, these contracts are something we hold, at least in the Croatian SDP Club, that they are worth supporting, protecting our interests, that is, the interests of potential Croatian investors in these areas, but also opening the door for investors from Singapore and SR Vietnam who eventually decide to come to Croatia to enjoy protection, and also because their investments are safer and greater, they are more likely to come. We now need to perform as an economic diplomacy, as an orderly state in this regard and try to attract these same investors. Of course, we too, as Parliamentarians, participate as much as we can in that. Finally, the SDP Club of Croatia will support these two laws confirming the agreement between the EU and its member states and SR Vietnam, respectively, R. Singapore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-24-0.u60455	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the Club of Representatives, the Mosta will speak to the esteemed representative, Plasimir Troscott. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-24-0.u60456	Dear vice president of HS, respected colleagues and fellow MPs and respected citizens who follow us through the screen. As for this final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on the Protection of Investments between Singapore and Vietnam and the EU, we believe that this is good because these agreements will improve the investment climate between, above all, Singapore and the EU. At the end of the day, these legislative frameworks and regulations will also achieve certain public policy objectives in terms of improving health, environmental safety, etc., and what is a great thing in the legislative sense, is that this agreement will actually replace 12 bilateral agreements signed by EU member states with Singapore. What got into my eye by reading, first of all, the Treaty with Singapore is Article 2.3, and it's a national treatment. He is not questionable about this, but it will actually help me lead the debate in another direction. And that Article 2(3) of national treatment says that the contracting parties should actually have favourable treatment, so on the one hand and there is no, there are no advantages in terms of investment, so between the country that invests and the countries in which it invests. What is actually continuing on this is on page 184 actually the restrictions that Singapore puts on Article 2(3). Therefore, to this national treatment Singapore puts a limit on drinking water supply in Singapore and under number b) so property, purchase and generally on real estate, so investors do not therefore have the same favourable relationship that they had with Article 2(3). And I can tell you this now because I lived in Singapore and I know this country well, I studied darkness. So, the restriction that Singapore actually put in that contract is actually that it is a limitation of space, and it is an island the size of Krk, something slightly larger, so Krk and a little Cres is about Singapore, so first of all on the property and on the other side of the water that is scarce and it is a natural resource that Singapore does not actually have. And in that sense, water reflects their sovereignty and statehood. And that's where I'd like to pull some parallels with our Croatian. So what we're saying is the reason Singapore put restrictions on this contract is Singapore gets drinking water from four sources. One natural resource, or natural reservoirs, is 17, so they further have the collection of rainwater and that is a strategy in Singapore that is known as “every drop is important”, they still have new water that is high-quality purified, purified water and therefore they have water that comes from Malaysia, that is the contract that Li Kwan Yu signed with Malaysia in 1962 and lasts until 2061 and desalinized water where they desalinize as Israel. What Li Kwan Yu actually realized after the founding of Singapore in the late 1960s was that water was actually crucial to the self-sufficiency of the Asian country and they were actually going into self-sufficiency as to what they count to achieve by 2061. Now, I come slowly to the point that I want to make here, and that is that, although Singapore is a land of the size of Krka, I repeat it is a country the size of Krka, so it has managed to put such an important restriction in a contract that will actually protect its sovereignty and statehood and one within the supply of drinking water, one EU can actually put into an unfavourable investment position where the EU cannot actually operate on a purely market-based basis, and all to protect its interests. Now, how does Croatia treat its water treasure? Recently, we have shown and proved that, despite the ruling party swearing on green strategies, especially because it has become a certain mantra that has been taken over from the EU, it is evident that rivers and the green environment are devastated, so in the Carlovakia County. And apart from the hydrothermia that burdens mountain streams such as the Good One therefore took many lives, what is key is that both land and flora and fauna and the Good and the Retina, which are huge water potentials, or drinking water, have been destroyed. And to see how Singapore would protect one Good and the Retina if it had such a treasure. It is that one hydrocenter takes life is already a huge problem, let alone the destruction of such a treasure that Croatia has. I thought the story would stop with Lesce, but what I was able to see was that HEP and Croatian waters obviously did not end there. And what is actually being prepared is the immersion of the Kosinjsko polje and this under the title of the strategic project for the Republic of Croatia where the houses would be submerged...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-24-0.u60457	Excuse me, colleague Troscott, you've gone a little too far on the subject, so please come back.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-24-0.u60458	No, I'm going back, so you have to let me say the point to the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-24-0.u60459	I'm asking you to get back on the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-24-0.u60460	Well, that's actually the goal of showing how contract provision protects natural resources. So that's the key. And please give me back these 20 seconds now.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-24-0.u60461	Do not discuss Troscott with me and there is Article 232 and I can give you a warning about this. You'd better get back on the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-24-0.u60462	So as for the protection of water resources, it is therefore impossible to achieve that one accumulation lake that will sink humus soil will provide drinking water and will be able to be used for water that will then be drank by the entire lyco-senian county. What is the key is that Singapore has, in fact, protected and fought for every drop of rain, which is their strategy, while the Croatian Government knowingly and deliberately destroys the water, cultural and environmental treasures of the Republic of Croatia. And water is a natural resource that will be paid in the very near future with gold. And Singapore knows it, and that's why the contract protects every drop of rain, and I stress every drop of rain, and it's indicated in the contract itself, and it's on its Singapore soil. And so we're destroying water resources and we're not worried about such an important natural resource as water, and water is an indicator of the sovereignty of a state and the MOST Club will fight for water at the highest levels. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-24-0.u60463	The next Club of Representatives will be the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Zdravka Busic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-24-0.u60464	Okay, thank you very much. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, dear secretary Lucic and co-worker, here today we have these two confirmation agreements that the HDZ Club really wants to support. So these are agreements between the EU and the Republic of Singapore as we have already heard from the Socialist Republic of Vietnam. These are investment protection agreements, the first such agreements I would call some modern generations that contain new modern, modernised, modernised investment protection rules based on the new EU approach on investment protection and investment dispute resolution. I'd say these agreements are actually similar to CET, which is also signed and ratified in this assembly. Investors from the EU and their investments shall be given fair and fair treatment and protection against discrimination, and protection against illegal enforcement. In addition, these agreements establish a permanent international and fully independent dispute resolution system, and this is very important in this case. The conclusion of these agreements, as we have heard from State Secretary Lucic, will help improve the investment climate between the EU and the countries mentioned, and agreements are expected to bring not only benefits to investors from the EU in terms of ensuring a high level of investment protection but also provide a more favourable legal framework for attracting new investments from that part of Asia into the EU. Any increase in foreign investment not only in Croatia but also in other EU Member States with which Croatia has a positive impact on Croatia's economy, and helps in economic recovery, Croatia's recovery. Following this, the HDZ Representatives Club supports the expansion of a network of these new investment agreements, and agrees with the adoption of final drafts of the law on the validation of these two agreements that we have already heard that I am not repeating their long, long titles. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-24-0.u60465	Thank you very much. Since no one has returned, I conclude the debate on this point, and we will vote on it when the conditions are met.
