ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-01-0.u57713	[[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.05 HOURS]] In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 226.St. 2. Rules of Procedure in accordance with Art. 226 C.E. 2 I will first propose to supplement the 8th session agenda with 8 new points. These are: Final Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Mandatory Relations, Final Proposal for a Law on the Institutional Framework for the Use of EU Funds in the Republic of Croatia, Proposal for a Law on Notification in the field of Technical Regulations and Regulations on Information Society Services, Proposal for a Law on the Croatian Foundation for Science, Report on the Effects of the Implementation of the Law on Islands in 2020, Report on the work of the National Council for the Monitoring of Implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy for the period from 5 February 2021 to 15 July 2021, Proposal for a conclusion which obliges the Government of the Republic of Croatia to submit an emergency report on the health status of the nation and the Interpellation on the work of the Government regarding the implementation of the census. The proposal was submitted by electronic means. How appropriate. 225 century 4. There were no rules of procedure of written objections to the proposal to supplement the agenda, i.e. that all the proposed items were included in the agenda of the 8th session.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-01-0.u57757	The next Club of Representatives will be the Most, and the honourable representative of Nikola Grmoy will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-01-0.u57758	Thank you. Yesterday, Croatian Prime Minister Plenkovic told Odzak at the opening of the Sava Bridge in Svilaj that Croatia will insist on amendments to the Election Law that will prevent Croatians from voting by adding, quote, we want to correct a bad anomaly that causes a constituent people to feel unwell and represented. Prime Minister Plenkovic, the Croatian people in BiH are not feeling disfigured but in reality is, but not members of the HDZ of BiH because if someone is not disproved, they are. Currently, the Croatians in BiH are mostly at risk of seeking political Sarajevo, which, with the support of the international community, is modelled by what was done in the former Yugoslavia by Belgrade, wants to make BiH a unitary state at the heart of the concepts of constituent peoples. I responsibly argue that there are no bigger fighters for this unitary vision of BiH than members and officials of the HDZ, including these 3 mummies that are now gone, sitting in HS, so HDZ in institutions has never acted again, and the situation of the Croatian people has never been worse. The fight to resolve the Croatian issue has become a struggle for HDZ syncures. The representatives of HDZ and their satellites became initiators and ideologists derogating the counties' powers as the last walls of the defence of Croatian constitutionality. I will only mention the vote of the Law on Agricultural Land in Herceg-Bosnian County, with which the county has disbursed itself from the power to dispose of agricultural land in favour of Milorad Dodik and his dunes. Voting the decision on the constitutionality of Serbs in the Herzegovic-Neretva County by the pellation of Izetbegovic and imposed decisions by Wolfgang Petridini, harmonising the educational system under the orders of the anti-Constitutional Ministry of Education of the Federation, seeking to take power over the PP Bledinje by Sarajevo etc. To see what direction Croatian politics in BiH led by Hrvatte Plenkovic should not have gone further than Odzak where he opened the bridge on the Sava. Odzak is located in Posavia County that suffered incredible victims, enough to say that the Serbian aggressor was in '92. I chased all the Croats. After the war the Croats returned to Odzak in an effort to live from their work, the main resource there was agricultural land, but in 2010 it was impossible for them, but not from Sarajevo or Banja Luka, but from the Croatian authorities. Namely, in the municipality of Odjak comes the company Agriculturals d.o.o. The company directly linked to the M SAN group and which was untransparently and through political benefits received nearly 1645 hectares of land, only three people hired, the contract signed was signed in 10 years, and it expired instead of hiring the country to the local population as is the case everywhere in other municipalities, by political bargaining it sought to extend this company to the next 40 years. So, not only have you been in the past 10 years. It did not allow the domicile Croats to process the country, but it is still trying to extend it to the next 40. Our people there want to stay on their grandfather, they want to live on their work, but this does not allow them Croatian politics, not Sarajevo, not Banja Luka, but Croatian politics, or HDZ. Is that the sense of depravity to Mr. Plenkovic? Why are the MPs from the 11th constituency on this issue silently, whom do they represent in the first place? Croatia must change its policy approach towards the Croats in BiH. Croats in BiH are not HDZ. We must erase the sign of equality between the Croatian people in BiH and the HDZ, which has turned into a natural caste that does not last even from trading with the interest of its people in Posavina and in all of BiH for the purposes of some of its syncours. The uniting vision that pushes through politically Sarajevo will be stopped when we get off the back of those who represent themselves as ours, killed by our own say the Croats from Posavina. Be assured, just as proud Croats in Croatia are waking up, the Croats in BiH are waking up. This way I order the Croats of Posavina, you are not alone, we are with you and together we will fight for your rights so that you can live and stay on your chest. That's enough of the one-brains.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-01-0.u57803	[[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 14:15 HOURS]] Please, we can sit down, uh, so we can move on to taking a position on behalf of the counsel club and the independent representatives. The first one came from a respected representative, Karolina Vidovic Kristo, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-01-0.u57804	Ladies and gentlemen, one of the main causes that Croatian citizens state as a reason why they leave their homeland is injustice and inequality before the law. And it really doesn't need to be a political analyst or sociologist, so you know that in countries where laws are respected, the standard is high and that people don't move out. Neither the Swedes nor the Swiss nor the Germans leave their homeland. The Poles return after they have to leave, and our Slovenian neighbours do not move as much as we do in Croatia. In these countries, for example, banks earn significantly less than banks in Croatia. Citizens pay twice as much interest as in Croatia. Why is that? It's very simple. National or central banks of these countries worry about respecting laws, both consumers towards banks and banks towards their clients. In Croatia, however, the Croatian National Bank assists certain banks in the abuse and robbery of its clients. I personally informed the CNB a few months ago that Addiko Bank is ordering debt enforcement companies, and they are baptizing them with a nicer name, demand collection agencies, to which Addiko provides personal data without client consent, which is a direct violation of the EU Personal Data Protection Regulation, but also a criminal offence under Croatian law, unauthorized data to third parties. These agencies, however, come to the clients of the banks in their homes, three people each and very aggressively demand current payments. These are otherwise violent and completely prohibited activities in the EU, and Croatia is in the EU. It is also an act of extortion and threats and a threat to home inviolability under the law. The CNB was informed a few months ago about this incident, and a few days ago the incident happened again. That means the CNB didn't do anything that the law tells him to do. If a case like this had happened in Austria, Hungary or the Czech Republic, the governor of the National Bank would have to resign at the moment, and the management of a bank doing this savage work would have been processed. This is proof that there is a narrow group of people who openly violate laws, and the state bodies that pay Croatian citizens are openly involved in these violations without taking the actions prescribed by the law. Because when the Stryacki family from Zapresic or the Cvetkovic family from Zagreb's Bukovac is a few weeks late to settle their obligation to the bank, the specials are kicking them out of the house, and when Plenkovic, Jandrokovic, 11 months are forcing the Secretary of the Parliament to whom the mandate has expired to act unauthorizedly, then nothing. The rule of law means that the laws must be applied by all, that there are no exceptions and that those who violate the law must be sanctioned. If Addiko Bank is openly breaking the law here, then the responsible people at Addiko Bank must be sanctioned at the moment. For sanctioning banks, it is, of course, CNB. If the CNB is aware of the illegal conduct of a particular bank and does nothing to prevent it or sanction it, then this means that the CNB participates in this illegal action and violates Croatian but also European regulations. Ladies and gentlemen, a lot of citizens are talking to me and telling me, it's nice that you're fighting, but that fight is unprecedented. But history teaches us that fighting for truth and justice simply has no alternative. We must be aware that we will encounter many obstacles on this road, but justice will ultimately win. Too many lives are built into the foundations of the Croatian state, which oblige us not to let a narrow handful of unscrupulous, egomanic materialists destroy the lives of honest Croatian people and because of the grampity of the destruction of the entire legal order in Croatia and the Croatian man steals hope for a better tomorrow. The time of billing comes and we as a people have the right to civilised, fair and legal Croatia that will protect their citizens. In this, the governor or vice governor or violent banking officials will not prevent us from doing so, and may they be aware that they too will have to give answers before the law for all this work.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-01-0.u57880	The next Club of Representatives will be that of HDZ, and will speak the esteemed representative Marko Pavić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-01-0.u57881	Thank you very much, well-respected vice president of the assembly, colleagues and colleagues. Well, on behalf of the HDZ Club today, I would like to reiterate the value of the European project, the EU's value, and in view of the recent payment of advances for the NPOO 818 million EUR, 6.14 billion kuna is in the budget this week. In total, when we sum up everything we've paid in Brussels and how much we've withdrawn from those six billion kunas we come up with a plus of 50 billion kuna. If someone needs an argument as to why EU membership is good, that is exactly the argument. Al well, Prime Minister Plenkovic reminded us yesterday in Opatija on the Days of Regional Development that the European project is not only a mere number of money that we are withdrawing from Brussels, however advanced it is, that it is a system of values that we share together, and it is primarily a consensus on democracy, market principles, respect for human rights and regional even development. And there I would say to my colleague Vukovac that exactly the project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem is one of the focus of this government and that it is recognized in Brussels. When we look at how much total we have agreed, 122% of the European funds' contracts, 61% of the payments and 50% of the certified ones. And that's an argument to all those who say that we're going to lose funds, we're not, we're not going to lose Eurocent, and we've secured for the next 10 years. 25 billion euros of which the advance came this week from 6 billion kuna. We have also managed to get out of this crisis and we are going so well that the CNB is also increasing the growth estimates this year and is working our way towards the EUR. The entry into the foreign exchange exchange exchange exchange exchange rate mechanism in the 7th month has further strengthened the Croatian path, credit rating and someone who says that it is not, there is no referendum, there has been a referendum and all the last 7 Member States have entered the euro without a referendum because they discussed the EUR when they joined the EU and accepted the EUR with a delay in its application. So someone obviously slept through that time and now deceives Croatian youth, Croatian citizens and wants to take away their European and Croatian future, and the Croatian and European future is exactly where young people want and should be because today we are as strong and sovereign as we are integrated into European and world processes. Modern sovereignty stems from how much we can fight for our interests in Brussels and at the world level, and Prime Minister Plenkovic and this government have shown it. It is credit agencies, not only say that we representatives of the majority, that the credit agencies have made it clear and that Croatia's way towards the EUR has said that it is one of the main differences in the preservation of credit ratings. On today, older people would also like to look back on the investment of European funds in this and who on what, the SDP on older people, and when last term of office, pensions grew only 4% and in the mandate of the government, Andrej Plenkovic 18% and at least 23%. I am also pleased that the SDP colleagues support the investment of European funds in active, pensioning 100 million kuna, and in 2023 there is an additional reform of family pensions. Finally, here is a message from your colleague, Grmoy, who is also here, leave out of what you talked about BiH, do not insult representatives from the 11th electoral unit, you are probably sorry that you do not have a representative, but Croatia and this government have shown what they know in Brussels, has secured the European path of BiH and has also been given the opportunity to articulate Croatian citizens, which they have confirmed in the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-01-0.u57882	Thank you very much. My friend Grumo, you've done some damage to the Rules of Procedure to make your choice, what is the injured Rules of Procedure in this matter?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-01-0.u57883	So, he's injured. In 238, counterpart Pavić invalidates the Croats from BiH, people from Posavina who he obviously doesn't care about, who came to me and asked me to bring this problem to HS and you see he has already escaped because he knows that he knows nothing about this subject except that he had to defend HDZ and Andrej Plenkovic. Here dear people look at HS, while there is no one here, so that is the way they treat, according to this high house and towards... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-01-0.u57884	Of course it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, then I'm giving you a sequence of that warning. Please sit down, enough of what we've talked about, and now we're gonna finish working for today. We'll sit down on Wednesday, October 6th, 9:30, and I wish you a good weekend.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-01-0.u57885	Thank you and good-bye. SECURE Interrupted at 14.47 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-01-0.u57971	The next Club of Representatives will be that of the Homeland Movement, and the honourable representative of Ruzica Vukovac will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-01-0.u57972	Dearly respected, while our farmers are scrambling in financial problems day by day, because of the purchase of the price of repromation, which is because of the lack of understanding of politics and the introduction of new burdens on their business which we witness today in HS, we learn from writing our media a series of information about the work of our institutions that deserve to be devoted to them. The State Agriculture Payment Agency, which has about 750 employees, is responsible for the implementation and control of paid incentives, requires experts who would be responsible for the implementation and control of paid incentives. In short, they're willing to pay a little less than a million kuna for someone to do their job, looking for 15 experts to check 105 demands. In the tender documentation published on the electronic public procurement notice, it says they are looking for public procurement and construction experts, and the estimated value of the job is 975,000 kuna, the contract is concluded for a year, during which time a total of 105 aid applications should be reviewed. What cannot be reached by the Agency for Payments in Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development with its 21 branches and 4 branches, a total of 15 persons should be able to carry out, of which 10 public procurement experts with at least 3 g. experience in the review of offers and 5 authorised construction engineers who have experience in the preparation of the procurement documentation specification, as well as in the review and evaluation of offers. They hire construction engineers and public procurement experts, engineers should control the users who arrive at the competition, make reports and check all the documentation they have received. We also link these proceedings to the situation after OLAF, so the European Anti-Fraud Office first ordered the return of money after they suspected irregularities in giving as much as 10 million kunas to Galic winery through the Agency for Payment in Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development. Furthermore, if, for example, the Agency for Payments in Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development has 58 official cars, on 9 September this year they rented 6 car rentals and then two more cars on 20 September. Now about 750 agency employees have as many as 66 cars used for official purposes, which is almost one car per employee. The agency explained that the payment of 8 rentals and the car was necessary because they had to carry out a large number of controls on the ground in a short time, and before paying out the support to farmers themselves. Daily they say the rental of each vehicle stands for 148 kuna without VAT, which will ultimately cost taxpayers 58,312 kuna, of course without VAT. Sources argue that the agency has been in possession of a kind of siege after it was announced in mid-September that the PNUSKOK has also launched an investigation into the award of grants from the European Fund and the money targeted at the project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem, and thus Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic has been greatly praised in recent years. The media reported on the abuse of money on several occasions, with television houses also recently transmitted that a number of irregularities were observed in the allocations, so the agency itself, but also the Ministry of Agriculture, requested the delivery of information on contracted support from the project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem itself, and how much money and to whom it was paid. The control is now being carried out in a hasty manner so that, before the new payment of the aid, everything will be checked to justify the fact that an existing 58 vehicle fleet for the job is not sufficient. Under the regulations, only 5% of users are subject to control. Therefore, there remains an incomprehensible number of so many official cars when, up to a few years ago, it worked with half the smaller vehicles, and the number of family economies in that period decreased from some 200,000 to today only about 150,000. Fear remains that the agency will actually increase the number of controls for those who have not done anything wrong precisely because of certain favors to individuals. I believe that our farmers are afraid for a reason whether they will be able to withstand the great burdens on their business served by our institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-01-0.u58089	The next club of representatives will be that of the Centre and GLAS, according to the respected representative Anka Mrak-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-01-0.u58090	Thank you very much, dear colleagues and colleagues. Today in the procedure, I have reached a conclusion asking the Parliament to oblige the Government to ensure that all primary and secondary schools in Croatia have access to psychological assistance by the beginning of the next school year. The Institute of Social Research recently published a survey involving 27 thousand students, 417 professional associates and 4796 teachers. This study showed that the Covid-19 pandemic had a negative or extremely negative impact on the lives of most students, their motivation and mental health. It is particularly worrying to learn that depression and anxiety in students and phobia and fears are in a significant increase. Apart from the coronaryvirus and all its consequences, a large number of Croatian students live in earthquake - affected areas, and they certainly feel the consequences of these traumatic events. The problem with our schooling is that it is very often not even in line with the regulations of our own country, in this case by the state pedagogical standard of primary and secondary education systems in 2008. These standards prescribe the number of professional school associates compared to the number of students. Research by the Psychological Spring Association has shown that as many as 233 primary schools employ fewer professional associates than prescribed where psychologists employ only 43% of schools. One part of the school employs a sufficient number of professional associates, but they lack a certain profile expert, and a total of 326 schools operate below the prescribed state pedagogical standard. In 880 primary schools, 340 psychologists were employed, and about 130,000 primary school students had no access to psychological assistance. That means that one psychologist is on average in charge of 925 students. According to data from the e-maternity of the Ministry of Science and Education, the current psychologist employs 47% of primary and 55% of secondary schools. As they warn from the Psychological Spring Association, the ministry employs trainees every year, which means that each year a number of psychologists enter the school system. Unfortunately, a large number of them are also coming out of the system every year because a very small number of schools have opened a tender for the post of psychologists following the completion of the traineeship. I think it's quite obvious from the data that I've stated that there is a serious lack of professional psychologists' associates in primary and secondary schools. It's inadmissible under normal circumstances if there is such a thing at all. But now given the covid, earthquakes and extraordinary circumstances in which students attend classes now the second school year in a row, it is a serious problem that needs to be addressed urgently. That's why I handed over the conclusion that I'm asking the Assembly to oblige the Government of the Republic of Croatia to be at the latest by the beginning of the next school year in 2022-'23. ensure all conditions necessary for access to psychological assistance to all pupils of primary and secondary schools in the Republic of Croatia. This does not necessarily mean that in the next year all schools need to hire a psychologist because in our demands we have to keep a real dose of reality. So in conclusion, I ask that the government ensure the conditions for all children to have access to psychologists, so that the work and schedule of people be organised accordingly. Of course, and hiring new ones is something that needs to be done in due course because a school without a psychologist is not complete. Often in public, even for this pay phone, we hear that corny phrase that children are our future. It probably is, it's ultimately a biological fact that we can't escape from, but if we don't deal with them and take care of them now and here, then there won't be a future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-01-0.u58272	The next Club of Representatives will be that of the SDP, and will be spoken by respected representative Romana Nikolic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-01-0.u58273	Today I mark the International Day of Elderly Persons. It aims to encourage countries to ensure that older citizens meet their needs and enable them to participate equally in society in accordance with their physical and intellectual abilities. The motto “older people as a new force for development” points to ensuring active and healthy ageing. Events and activities organised this day highlight the need to change the awareness of aging. In our society, age is stereotyped with sickness and incompetence, but this should not be so. Instead, we should focus on developing an active and healthy ageing model. The fact is that older people with their experience, abilities and will can make a good contribution to their community in society and society as a whole. Also for those who want to and may need to provide a job to improve their pension. Elderly individuals are one of the most affected by the coronary virus pandemic. In addition to belonging to the risk group and being denied for the medical examinations they normally go to, the elderly spent their time in isolation of their homes and without being able to carry out normal activities. This led to a sense of fear, loneliness, and emptyness, an occupation of negative thoughts, and a withdrawal within itself. Part of them lost loved ones, which further made their condition worse. Unfortunately, as a state, we have failed to do more for them to improve their physical health. It also worries that more than 700,000 pensioners have a pension below the poverty line and that 70% of pensions are below the poverty line. The most endangered are widows in family pensions that average 2,060 kuna. The national fee paid to elderly people who do not make pension is 800 kuna, three times less than the poverty line. As pensions calm the cost of living ruthlessly and in the near future an increasing number of pensioners will not be able to meet their basic needs of life. It saddens the fact that an increasing number of older people are victims of abuse both financially and physically and mentally. There's little talk about this because violence often doesn't appear because of ignorance, fear and shame, and when a bully is reported mainly, he's not punished while the victim suffers and the consequences of the report. The situation in homes for older and powerless is also worrying. They are often inaccessible to older people, which is due to low capacity, due to high prices. To make things worse, services often worrying about the quality we had the opportunity to read about in the Black Chronicle. What can any of us do for older people? To begin with, let us be more compassionate and understanding, age awaits all of us, and that is why older people need to be treated the way we want to be treated one day. We can help older people in a way that promotes intergenerational solidarity with our words and actions in order to strengthen and promote social, economic and political inclusion and without discrimination based on age, gender, disability, ethnic and religious background, and economic status. Once again, I would like to congratulate the International Day of the Elderly to all persons of the golden age and thank them for everything they have done throughout their lives, and it has had a positive impact on the society in which we live.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-01-0.u58629	We now have a report by the MIP on the confirmation of the MIP's decision to grant authorisation for the initiation of the criminal proceedings and the deprivement of freedom and the determination of the investigative prison against Stjepan Kovaca's MPs in HS. The debate is closed, Art. 27. The Rules of Procedure of the HS shall also provide for the application of the immunity of MPs to the MPs, with subsequent confirmation of the Assembly at the next session. I am now giving the approval to confirm the next decision 1 to initiate the criminal proceedings against Stjepan Kovaca's MPs in HS and 2 to grant approval for a solution to freedom and the determination of an investigative prison against Stjepan Kovaca's MPs in HS. Here's my colleague, Bauk, in violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-01-0.u58630	Mr. President, please separate those two voting points if it wasn't the custom until now, I think it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-01-0.u58631	I can, it's not a problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-01-0.u58632	Then I would like to report for the second item for the violation of the Rules of Procedure. 3rd century. 2th century. which, when the conditions for determining the representative's investigation prison are obtained, etc., the competent national authority is obliged to request the approval of the Assembly. [[President intruding: Good.]] In this case, we have confirmation of the MP's decision, and that the State's Attorney's Office has not requested detention, which means that the conditions have not been met that they have sent us an anti-business request and I do not want to take part in their play and I will vote against determining detention, if that can be put to the vote at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-01-0.u58633	Okay, so this is the Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, which I have received as President of the Croatian Parliament, we will put it and we will vote on it, and if you think that this was not in accordance with the procedure, then I ask you then to contact the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system in order to respond in time and possibly correct the mistake that we may be making. So I'm going to confirm the next decision, first we're going to vote separately, then we're going to vote separately. The first approval is given for the initiation of criminal proceedings against Stjepan Kovaca's representatives in the Croatian Parliament. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? 87 votes were in favour, so we adopted the first part of the decision. Two, an authorisation is granted for the deprivement of freedom and the establishment of an investigative prison against Stjepan Kovac of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? It voted 85 MPs and MPs, 77 for, 5 abstentions and 3 against, and thus confirmed this second, second part of the decision we voted on. So these are the decisions proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Now we're going to approach the vote. First, the Final Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on general administrative procedure, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 172, Proposer of the Government, the debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by a representative, Marin Miletic, who was accepted by the government and became an integral part of the final bill. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the General Administrative Procedure Act. Please, let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? It voted 124 MPs and MPs, 123 for and 1 against and thus passed the Law on Amendments and Completion of the General Administrative Procedure Act. This is my colleague, Bencic. What?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-01-0.u58733	He apologized, we have a technical problem. My colleague Raukar doesn't have a card in place, and three of us can be here. ... Okay, thank you. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-01-0.u58734	No, no, you can, you can, where the card is, there you can vote. Okay. We're going to the second point. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on administrative disputes, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. In 173, the promoter of the Government, the debate was concluded, and I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Disputes. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 123 MPs and MPs voted in favour and thus passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Disputes.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-01-0.u59024	I am looking for a break on behalf of the Club of HSS and RF in order to read and study this Law again in the first reading, amendments and additions to the Law in the first reading and to warn other MPs and advocates about the harmfulness of these legal changes, which very often, as with other laws relating to work and work, go under the radar and are not sufficiently addressed to why these changes are bad. So, colleagues and colleagues, these amendments and one addition to the Minimum Salary Act will allow workers to work for a salary less than minimum. So these legal changes are allowed to happen and that in those labour-intense industries it will be the case, most often to the processing industries, to share working hours over the year, and that workers in those parts of the year when they work get lower wages than minimum. The minister said it would be used, that at the level of the year these workers would have minimum wage, but I asked the minister if he would be able to recover as he said, and the needs of workers and workers in those months where they would receive a salary less than minimum? The second thing about this legislative proposal is that only collective bargaining will now lead to the calculation of the percentages to be paid by additions to work on Sundays, additions to overtime and other accessories, which may well be because the trade unions themselves have said that this should be negotiated by collective bargaining, but the fact is that this government does nothing to increase the networking of collective contracts. We have a low network that fell 19% in just 12% in just 2 decades, 45%. So it's a complete irregularity. And I don't think there's gonna be anything going on here. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-01-0.u59025	Okay. The apartment is approved, but in accordance with Article. 293b goes ahead with the vote, so I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Minimum Payment Act and 2. Any comments and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? 110 MPs and deputies voted, 99 for, 8 abstentions and 3 against, and concluded that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies. Final draft law confirming the statutes of the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank, second reading, P.Z. No. 158, the motion is Government, the debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of that law. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? It voted 112 MPs and MPs, 110 for, 2 abstentions, and thus passed the Law on the validation of the statutes of the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-01-0.u59546	We now have two decisions under A and B, under A) The proposal for a decision on a resolved member of the Competition Protection Council under B) The proposal for a decision to appoint the President of the Competition Protection Council, is proposed by the Government, the debate is concluded. Under A, I am voting on the proposal for a decision on a member of the Board for the Protection of Competition. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? I am unanimous with 95 votes to determine that a decision has been made as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I am also voting on the proposal for a decision appointing the President of the Competition Protection Council. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? 95 re-legislator and MPs voted in favour, so a decision was made as proposed by the government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-01-0.u59554	Another point with A and B, A) Proposal for a decision on the discharge of part of the members of the Governing Council of the Croatian Memorial and Documentary Centre of the Homeland War B) Proposal for a decision on the appointment of part of the members of the Governing Council of the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre of the Homeland War, is the Government, the debate is concluded. So under A) I am voting on the motion for a decision on the resolved part of the members of the Governing Council of the Croatian Memorial and Documentary Centre of the Homeland War. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? 94 MPs and MPs voted, all were in favour, so a decision was made as proposed by the government of the Republic of Croatia. Proposal for a decision on the appointment of part of members of the Governing Council of the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre of the Homeland War. Let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? 96 deputies and MPs voted, all were in favour and a decision was made as proposed by the government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-01-0.u59741	The proposal for a multi-annual programme of cadastral measurement of construction areas for 2021, is proposed by the Government, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the National Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the proposal for a multi-annual programme of cadastral measurement of construction areas for the period 2021-2030. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? 95 MPs and MPs voted, 83 for and 12 abstentions, and thus adopted the Multi-annual Programme of Catastrian Measurements of Construction Areas for the period 2021-2030. Final proposal of the Copyright and Related Rights Act, second reading, P.Z.E. Number 61. The motion is Government, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by MP Karolina Vidović Kristo, representative Davor Dretar, Club of HSS and the Workers' Front, representative Miroslav Škoro, representative Darko Klasic, representative Marija Selak Rasudić, Green-left bloc representative club, Centre and GLAS club, representative Zeljko Pavić and SDP representative club. The review has been submitted by electronic means, and we have conducted the statement earlier in the session, so we will vote on amendments that the applicant does not accept. Before we go to the vote on amendments we have requests for a break, first fellow Oreshkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-01-0.u60236	I thank the president. Dear fellow MPs and representatives on behalf of the Center and GLAS Party Club, I request a five-minute recess to consult on how to vote on this law. In fact, the debate showed that this bill in a number of aspects did not strike a fair balance between the protection of copyrights as the authors themselves on the one hand, and then other groups that look at the interests of their economic activities also participate in the placement of copyrights on the market. I am talking about the famous Article 306(5), which contains, in itself, the seemingly retroactive application and entry into contractual relations or the change in existing practices even where there is no contract. Therefore, this law does not represent a good solution for either of the two, but in the public experience of the opposing parties, although nature of things requires that we should cooperate in order to achieve our economic interest. However, many other groups such as actors have not achieved what this law should guarantee. We've been waiting for this law for a long time. I think we should have made more serious access to the preparation of his provisions. The fact is that since the first reading, through public debate, and yet in a very non-transparent way, the ratio has changed, so to speak, that we will actually protect one side and the other, which suggests that some stakeholders may have made a better choice for their interests, and we Parliamentarians may not have been able to wrongly and properly weigh where there is a good environment. So I think it might be opportune to postpone the vote on this law. and once again access the making of a solution. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-01-0.u60237	Thank you very much. We've got another request for a break, Comrade Prickin, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-01-0.u60238	Thank you, Mr. President. In the name of the Homeland Movement Club, we are looking for a break for a small consultation because within the club there was little controversy about this law, but they are resolved, we cannot accept this law, or support this legal proposal to convert it into law. He is incorrect, he is immoral because of Article 235 in which an embedded provision was actually better placed to transfer a provision from the previous law that speaks of how to regulate the relationship between the authors and the users of these copyright offices. It states that some arrangement or contract should regulate the relationship between them and the amount of compensation. However, in practice it is reduced to something completely different. There is no agreement that would still have to precede some kind of contract, there is the dictatorship of a group of citizens called ZAM, who also deals with copyright protection but one 10%, and 90% of them are interested in solving their economic, financial ambitions, not taking into account the interest of entrepreneurs and caterers, i.e. by conducting a harrac or racket over the caterers. It is unacceptable for HS to allow such a non-transparent way of collecting huge money used besides the rest for interest. The fact is that this includes one of the political factors and one of the authors themselves because no author has noticed that ZAMP is being collected every month, and that they get their money only after a year, and in the meantime, it is not due to the money. So, this bill will probably be passed, but after ten, fifteen days, we'll go with the proposal. supplement the amendments to the law because Article 1(2) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-01-0.u60239	Is anyone else picking up for a break? If not, I'll apply the article. 293.b so we will continue to work and we will proceed with a statement or vote on amendments, we will go in turn. 1. is SDP's Club of Representatives, the government does not accept it, so let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? It voted 116, 39 for, 1 abstention and 76 against, so the amendment did not go through. We are going to the 2nd and 3rd Amendment Club of Representatives of HSS and RF and Representatives of Marija Selak Rasudiæ they are identical content, the government does not accept them and we will vote on them only once. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendments did not receive the required number of votes. Number 4 of amendments to the SDP's Club of Representatives, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment of the HSS and RF Representatives Club number 5, the government does not accept it. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 6 of Maria Selak Rasdic, the government does not accept it. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 7 of the SDP MPs club, the government does not accept. We have to vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendments number 8 and number 9 of identical content, these are amendments to the Club of Representatives of HSS and RF and representative Marija Selak Rasudiæ, so the government does not accept them, so we will vote once. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendments did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment number 10 Green-left bloc representatives' clubs, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 11 of the HSS and RF MPs club, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendments 12 and 13 of the SDP Representatives Club and of Maria Selak Rasudić are identical content, the government does not accept them, so we will vote once only. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendments did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment number 14 of the SDP MPs club, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendments 15 and 16 of the HSS and RF representatives and representatives of Marija Selak Rasudić are identical, the government does not accept them, so we vote only once. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? They didn't get the votes they needed. Amendment 17 of the SDP MPs' club, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 18, the club of representatives of the HSS and the Workers' Front, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 19th Amendment of Representative Marija Selak Rasudic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 20, the HSS Representatives' Club and the Workers' Front, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 21 Green-left bloc representatives' clubs, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 22nd Amendment of the SDP Representatives Club, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 23rd amendment of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives, the government does not accept it. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 24th amendment, the club of representatives of the HSS and the Workers' Front, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 25th Amendment of Representative Marija Selak Rasdic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendments 26, 27 and 28 SDP MPs' club, HSS and the Workers' Front Club and Maria Selak Rasdic's representatives are identical, the government does not accept them, and we vote on all three amendments once. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? They didn't get the votes they needed. 29th Amendment of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 30th Amendment of Representative Miroslav Škora, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 31st amendment, Green-left bloc advocates' club, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 32nd amendment, the SDP Representatives' Club, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 33rd amendment of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 34th Amendment of Representative Miroslav Skora has been withdrawn. The 35th Amendment of Agent Davor Dretar, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 36th Amendment of the SDP Advocacy Club, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 37th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the HSS and the Workers' Front, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 38th Amendment of Representative Marija Selak Rasdic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 39th Amendment of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives has been adopted by the Government in a modified form by which the applicant has agreed and becomes an integral part of the law in an amended form. Amendment number 40. The Green-left bloc's club does not accept, we must vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendments, the amendment did not receive the required number of votes. So let's now go to Amendments 41, 42 and 43, which are identical content, the government doesn't accept them, we'll vote on them only once, these are amendments to the SDP's Club of Representatives, the Green-Left Block Club and the representative of Davor Dretar. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? They didn't get the votes they needed. 44th Amendment of Representative Miroslav Skora has been withdrawn. The 45th Amendment of the Center and Voice Representatives Club, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 46th amendment of MP Darko Klasic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. The 47th and 48th amendments are identical content, the government does not accept them, we will only vote once, these are amendments by the Green-left bloc representatives and MP Davor Dretar. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? They didn't get the votes they needed. The 49th Amendment of Representative Miroslav Skora has been withdrawn. Amendment number 50. Green-left bloc advocates' club, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 51st Amendment of the same club of MPs, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 52nd Amendment of the same club of MPs, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 53rd amendment again is not accepted by the Green-Left bloc's advocates' club. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 54th Amendment of the same club of MPs, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 55. Again, the Green-left bloc advocates' club, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 56th Amendment of the same club of representatives, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 57th amendment again is not accepted by the Green-Left bloc's advocates club. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. It is now the 58th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 59th Amendment, MP Davor Dretar, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 60th and 61st amendments are identical Club of Representatives of the SDP and Representative Davor Dretar, the government does not accept them, so we only vote once. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendments did not receive support. The 62nd amendment of MP Darko Klasic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. In 63rd, the Center and GLAS's Club of Representatives, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 64th Representative Miroslav Skora has been withdrawn. The 65th Amendment of MP Karoline Vidovic Kristo, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. 66th Representative Željko Pavić has been withdrawn. 67. The Center and Voice Representatives Club, the government doesn't accept, please, let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. And the last amendment of Agent Davor Dretar, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. I am now voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on Copyright and Related Rights. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? 120 MPs and MPs voted, 76 were in favour, 1 was abstention and 43 against and thus the Law on copyright and related rights was passed. Final proposal of the Electronic Media Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 62, the motion is Government, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Club of Representatives of Focus and Independent Representatives, MP Marija Selak Rasdic, MP Nino Rasdic, Green-Left Block Representatives' Club, SDP Representatives' Club, Zeljko Pavić's representative, Centre and GLAS's Club of Representatives, Erik Fabianic, HDZ Representatives' Club, Davor Ivo Stier and Katarina Peović's representative. The review has been submitted by electronic means, and we have conducted the statement earlier in the session, and we will vote on amendments that the applicant does not accept. But before that, we have a request for a break, a respected colleague of Ursha Raukar-Gamulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-01-0.u60447	Thank you, Mr. President. I am looking for a break on behalf of the Green-Left bloc Club for the reason that no amendments to the appointment of members of the Electronic Media Council are provided for in this final draft of the law. For several weeks now, we have witnessed an extremely large scandal since the Council for Electronic Media has given concessions and left a concession to one bidder, so specifically, Top Radio, which in the tender documentation has delivered a worthless document. No, no competition in this country knows the possibility that incomplete documentation or documentation in which the document is corrupt would be accepted in any competition, so we see no reason for this to happen to the Council for Electronic Media. The Council for Electronic Media did not even put to the vote the confiscation of the concession when documents were publicly delivered that the document was worthless. We also believe that it is necessary to change the way members of the Electronic Media Council are appointed because the Government of the Republic of Croatia has failed to react. Their explanation is that the Agency for Electronic Media is an independent regulator, however, it is very important to distinguish independence from illegality since it is a clear example of illegality and non-compliance with the provisions of the competitions, we are looking for a break in order to further discuss the possibility of introducing in this proposal an amendment to the way members of the Electronic Media Council are appointed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-01-0.u60448	Is anyone else picking up? If not, then we shall comply. 293b shall proceed with the vote. So, the first is the amendment of the HDZ Club of Representatives, it has been adopted and becomes an integral part of the law. Amendments 2, 3 and 4 are identical content, the government does not accept them, so we will only vote once, these are amendments to the SDP's Club of Representatives, the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives and representatives Zeljko Pavic. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment, or amendments, did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment No. 5 MPs Katarina Peovic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. The 6th Amendment of Representative Nina Rasputic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment No. 7 Green-left bloc representatives' clubs, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendments 8 and 9 of the Fox Clubs and Independent Representatives have been accepted and become an integral part of the law. Amendment No. Ten representatives of Nin Rasludic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. 11th Amendment of the Legislative Committee, becoming an integral section of the law. Amendment No. 12 Representatives' Clubs and Independent Representatives have been accepted by the Government in an amended form, agreeing with the applicant and becoming an integral part of the law in an amended form. Amendment 13 Green-left bloc advocates' clubs, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. The 14th Amendment of the Focus and Independent Representatives Club, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. The 15th amendment of MP Katarina Peovic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 16th Amendment of the Center and Voice Representatives Club, the government does not accept, so let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 17th amendment of MP Katarina Peovic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 18th Amendment of Agent Davor Ivo Stier, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. The 19th Amendment of MP Nina Rasputic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. The 20th Amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club has been accepted, becoming an integral part of the bill. The 21st amendment of MP Katarina Peovic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 22nd amendment of the Green-Left bloc's Green-Left Club, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 23rd amendment of MP Zeljko Pavic was withdrawn. The 24th Amendment of Representative Marija Selak Rasudic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 25th Amendment of the Legislative Committee has been adopted and becomes an integral part of the bill. The 26th Amendment of MP Nina Rasputic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 27th and 28th amendments of MP Eric Fabianic and representative Zeljko Pavic are identical content, the government does not accept them, so we vote only once. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendments did not receive the required number of votes. The 29th amendment of MP Nina Rasputic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. The 30th Amendment Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He didn't get the votes he needed. And the 31st amendment by MP Zeljko Pavic, the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. I am now voting on the final proposal of the Electronic Media Act. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? 123 MPs and MPs voted, 7 were in favour, 46 against and thus passed the Law on Electronic Media. Final proposal of the Law on the approval of an investment protection agreement between the EU and its Member States, of the one part, and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, of the other part, reading, P.Z. No. 165, the applicant is a government, the debate is concluded, and I am voting on the final proposal of that law. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? It voted 113, all of them were in favour, so the law was unanimously passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-01-0.u60938	My colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives, green and ecological policies are a prerequisite for our survival, and that is why they are also the basis of the politics of the MOST Club of Representatives. My colleagues and colleagues, I ask you, in this conclusion, if you want to eat Croatian or Chinese potatoes, do you want to be a person or a Cypriot potato? Moreover, I ask you something else, do you want to have a chance at all to choose whether to eat a potato or a potato, or if you want to eat Chinese or homemade onions? Let us remember what happened during the first proposal of this law. He was such as to virtually disable domestic organic production of seeds. By intensive lobbying of active organizations exclusively with their enthusiasm, we have come to the conclusion that the law has been amended in the second reading. Since we are facing significant changes in EU regulation that will again be possible to lead us to the unfavourable position of organic food producers, what I am asking you to do is to send the wind back to all domestic organic food producers. That they can count on our support and that our policies will go that way. What I am asking you to do here is to declare that the right to a quality domestic seed or the right to a healthy, accessible and environmentally-produced food is the basis of food sovereignty which is a prerequisite for our self-sufficiency and guarantee of survival in exceptional circumstances. I believe there is a broader political consensus on this, and I hope that we'll prove it now. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-01-0.u60939	So I am voting on this proposal for a conclusion that the government does not accept. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? 111 MPs and representatives voted, 35 for, 76 against, so the proposed conclusion was not accepted. Proposal for a referendum law, first reading, P.Z. No. 183., the applicant is a government, the debate is closed. In line with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion, but before that we will have a break, first came to my colleague Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-01-0.u61327	Dear Prime Minister of Croatia, first of all, I apologize for raising or requesting a break before the time. I demand a recess to further consult the Croatian Sovereigns' Club on this bill. Here I have to point out a few key facts. The first fact is that we have an unsettled list of voters, that we have one disproportionate voter and population. I would not be surprised if the situation occurred if we had more voters in Croatia than we have residents, and from this place I call on Minister Malenica, Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic to finally bring it into line or revise it. Without that, without that harmonisation, we will not have a fair signing of some kind of referendum initiative. On the other hand, this, this referendum initiative is supposed to be better than the previous one, if better, here I am this way, this is the third time I challenge the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and also you, President HS, to put this bill in the process next Monday so that the referendum initiative "Protect Croatian Kuna" can collect signatures for this initiative under this bill. With the fact that I also have to point out here that in this law we have a whole series of gaps. One of the biggest failures is ignoring the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia which said or ordered and issued a solution that the signatures can be collected in any JLS or that JLS is not in a position to approve or disapproval of the collection of signatures at any location. So I will repeat, revise the lists of voters and on the next Monday as far as we Croatian sovereigns are concerned, put this bill in the process that we have a final bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-01-0.u61328	Thank you. Of course the break will be approved. The next break was requested by a respected representative of Peja Grbin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-01-0.u61329	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, I request a break on this agenda point, among other things, to highlight some of the things we talked about yesterday during the debate. Yes, the fact is that this legislative proposal represents an improvement in the state we have today. Yes, the fact is, with this legislative proposal, we are still putting some order into question the referendum decision. But it is also a fact that this law cannot touch at all, cannot address and cannot solve the biggest problems Croatia has with the referendum. That's why we in the SDP appeal once again if we really want to settle the referendum, and I think there's a big consensus on that, then we do the job right. Let us approach the amendments to the Republic of Croatia's Constitution for which we need a high degree of consent and ensure that what is on the issue of referendum decision is really and only important, and this is to ensure that there is no decision on the reduction of minority rights in the referendum, let us ensure that a smaller number of voter signatures are required to call the referendum, secure the quorum at the referendum's decision and ensure that the referendum issue is decided before the signings begin. For this it is necessary to approach changes to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, respected colleagues and colleagues from the HDZ to initiate this, an agreement on this can be reached, and we can do this job properly. Otherwise, we'll just make another half solution that eventually, even though it'll leave all the important things unresolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-01-0.u61330	My colleague Grumo's injuries to the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-01-0.u61331	He's been injured. In 238, therefore, the public is deceived and it is raised as the most important question of how to limit the will of the people and how to hand over that will and authority to the commercial composition of the Constitutional Court, which was jointly eroded by the SDP and HDZ. You want to tell us both that we trust the Mlakar, who falsely presents himself in Austria than the Croatian people, that we believe Ingrid, Pipple fat trust as! but to the Croatian people Club Mosta will trust the Croatian people and search [[The incursion president: I thank my colleague Grmo.]] to make the referendum more accessible to the people. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-01-0.u61332	You could have said it all without breaking the Rules of Procedure that you knowingly and deliberately did, so you get a warning. Here's my colleague Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-01-0.u61333	Thank you, Mr. President. The HDZ advocates' club is also looking for a break to be consulted again, but also sent a message to the Croatian public that this referendum law is a major step forward in the regulation of legislation that defines referendum activities. It is a contribution to transparency in the process of collecting signatures and decisions, it removes numerous irregularities and represents a major step forward in enabling citizens to participate in the direct decision-making process that the Constitution has guaranteed, allowing their voice to be heard more strongly and better in political decision-making. What is important to note is that this law is in line with the fourth change in the 2010 Constitution. which we were obliged to do before. But the fact is that the debate itself highlighted certain changes that cannot be changed by this law without changing the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia or the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court. Therefore, knowing that such amendments to the Constitution and the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court require a consensus of political parties in order to obtain 101 MPs in HS, and having experience that this procedure may take longer than we are at this point considering that the Law on Referendum and citizens, if you want to see HS settled in the constitutional legal framework of the Law on Referendum, cannot be held hostage to our possible reflections when amending the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The HDZ Representatives' Club and HDZ are open to talking about it, but we cannot compete in amendments to the Constitution to welcome the referendum law [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] It is important that this law be passed as proposed by the Government. [[Intruder President: Thank you, colleague BAčić.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-01-0.u61334	Thank you very much. Okay, and this break has been approved. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure of counterpart Selak Raspoudic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-01-0.u61335	Art. 238th Indecency of a parliamentary representative. I must note that my colleague Bačić had a fight with himself, which now demeans what we heard as parliamentary representatives, and thus deceives the Croatian public. You have seen yourself that the key question of who can even approach the referendum is disastrously set in this law, the censorship for the local referendum is an amazing 20%, and now you're saying that this law is a big step forward So make a deal with yourselves. [[The incursion president: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-01-0.u61336	Thank you very much. You get hurt or you hurt your rules of procedure and you get a warning. He reported your violation of the Rules of Procedure, is that so, colleague Bacic, then you are before your colleague Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-01-0.u61337	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague, Selak Rasudić, has been injured by an article. 238. Namely, he demeans his fellow MPs, and he does not know the Rules of Procedure of HS. Namely, she must be aware that the Croatian government can only propose a law that is in accordance with the Constitution, no other law she would want the Croatian government can propose and I think it is time to comply with such HS provisions Rules of Procedure of HS. [[President intruding: Good.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-01-0.u61338	And you also get a warning because these are replicas now. I would now invite MPs and MPs to stop this is a classic violation of the Rules of Procedure. I ask these other colleagues and colleagues to follow what is happening now and to agree between themselves whether we want to do so, so that we knowingly violate the Rules of Procedure, a few MPs, and that the others who are here holding order come to an inferior position because they abuse the Rules of Procedure to be seen and to speak. Now what I said will be replicated by my colleague Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-01-0.u61339	Art. 238th Demeanor of MPs. The Honorable Chairman of what you have now said is a classic doctoring because you cannot know in advance what the MP will say in his injury to the Rules of Procedure. Is it really going to be a violation of the Rules of Procedure that you will respect, or is it going to be a formal excuse to give the replica. It is not good for you as someone who manages this debate to decide in advance what is going to be the speech of the MPs and that the Priorys qualify him as such.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-01-0.u61340	I once again invite you all to stick to the injuries of the Rules of Procedure in situations where it is indeed a breach of the Rules of Procedure, not when we want to replicate. It's visible to anyone with a good will and who's thinking clearly, so I invite you to behave. We can also act and violate procedures that we do continuously, but then I don't see the point in the Rules of Procedure. That, then, then, then, or we'll remove this breach of the Rules of Procedure and we'll introduce another category because here the breach of the Rules of Procedure is used for replication. So, I invite you not to, and you do what you want, then it's my job to give a warning and warn. Now it's my friend Bulj's turn, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-01-0.u61341	Thank you very much. A colleague of Bacic injured Article 238 where the MPs did not tell us the truth about the referendum. 20% needed at local level, and 10% at the state level, which means in Zagreb needs more signatures than the Mayor of the city of Sinja is current, the city of Zagreb is current. It takes 5,000 in Sinj City. I, as mayor, feel so isolated from the people, born out, and ask not 10% but 5% that people plead on their questions And not to be a sizer, and you, too, are in violation of the Rules of Procedure, because MPs have the right to use the Institute of Infringement of the Rules of Procedure. [[Intruder: colleague Bulj.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-01-0.u61342	This is the abuse of the Rules of Procedure's Institute, so you're being warned. I'm sticking to the Rules of Procedure, don't throw it away, I'm asking you to stick to the order. Comrade Bull, please. [[Intruder: And only you don't hold on to it seems to me.]] Col. Buric has now come forward, but before that, a colleague, Selak Rasdic, will be present. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-01-0.u61343	Now it is really about the violation of Article 238 and the demeaning of the parliamentary representative, counterpart Bačić explicitly said that I do not know the Constitution, and the situation is the opposite, my colleague Bacic does not know the Constitution, so let me teach him and argue. So, the censorship for a local 20% referendum that is abnormally high, which is why you agreed that this bill is not good, it's governed by this law, not by the Constitution. Do not deceive the Croatian public and insult parliamentary representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-01-0.u61344	Okay, okay, thank you very much, and this has been a violation of the Rules of Procedure because it has been replicated, and it has not been talked about the violations of the Rules of Procedure. Can I ask my colleague, Boric, to give up? No, then here's my colleague, Boric, the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-01-0.u61345	Thank you very much, President, Article 238. Demeaning all of us here at the HDZ Club by colleagues from MOST, an essential ignorance of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia. Comrade Miro Bulj as mayor if he wants to call a referendum to call them every week, he has such authority, only he doesn't know it. He has his own council, which is held by his SDP, so let him raise his hands and call a referendum and ask them whatever they want. What he does, doesn't do, will he do something or won't do something. My colleagues Rasudiæ, you too do not deal with the elementary things in this assembly, and it would be time to learn something after a year and two months.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-01-0.u61346	Okay, and this has been a violation of the Rules of Procedure, but since I haven't given the predecessors a warning, I won't give it to you either, here's a colleague of yours, and then I'm asking you to move on with the vote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-01-0.u61347	Thank you very much. The only one who did not support it was the losers of HDZ who never got a worse score in Sinj by denying it, all the others supported the president of the city council, and as for Sinj and the referendum, I would like the initiatives of the nations to be those who will pass, not the Pharaohs whom you have enthroned and the subjugaries that you have verticalally and horizontally. That's enough of that. You've been born out. We're giving the people the right to decide because it's the people who have to ask him in the referendum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-01-0.u61348	I'm asking you to stop now because this doesn't make any sense. So, you yourself said that I didn't know what was going to happen, and all that was going on was a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Because it's visible and it's logical that it's going to happen because people want to debate, but we don't have the right to discuss it right now, so I'm asking you now to stop this because this is a mockery of the Rules of Procedure that we voted on ourselves. Can we stop? We can. I'm begging you because this doesn't make sense. You've had a debate, we have the possibility of a press conference, you've exploited several violations of the Rules of Procedure, I haven't even given any notice, and now I'm asking you to stop, it doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-01-0.u61349	So Article 238, I ask you to define what this article means to belittle parliamentary representatives. If someone tells you as a colleague, Boris, that you do not deal with elemental matters, and you have given a concrete argument about what you are saying, if it is not demeaning, please, here is a nice thing to do as President-in-Office here explicitly so that there is no more error and abuse of the Rules of Procedure to say what it is to disprove parliamentary representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-01-0.u61350	It is almost impossible to answer that question because we are in parliament and we are discussing and people are using different techniques, but we have some good customs, some habits, some gains that we have developed during this time, and we behave according to them. So if we're going to look for things like this all the time and insist on what you're doing right now, then we can't even conduct discussions here, and we don't have a Rules of Procedure because that doesn't make any sense. So I'm asking you to be collegiate, there are a lot of colleagues and colleagues here who are doing the right thing, and now because of a few of us here, we have a stalemate and I don't think we're doing anything useful for the citizens who chose us. But good. He gave up his colleague, Boric, thank you very much. Do you want to or not? You want to take a break?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-01-0.u61351	If I wanted a break...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-01-0.u61352	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-01-0.u61353	...out of 10 hours that I and my club of representatives, because it takes so long for me and my club of representatives to rest and recover from this kind of harassment that we experience from individual colleagues and colleagues. And we have other things to do that will take our time until midnight. Who doesn't have a job like this, and who here thinks to harass the rest of the MPs, can, but not at my expense and at my club's expense. So I'm asking for these 10 hours off.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-01-0.u61354	Okay. Of course we're not gonna give a 10-hour break, but we're gonna use the article. 293b and keep going, and I'm appealing to my colleagues now, and I see that you don't think to stop, so then I'm gonna take a 10 minute break and then we're gonna move on after that. It's 13:45. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 13.56 HOURS]] First breach of the Rules of Procedure, please welcome colleague Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-01-0.u61356	The Honorable President HS has been violated. 238, a colleague, Milorad Pupovac, insults and disrespects his colleagues. Mr. Milorad Pupovac is obviously bored here, he's in a hurry no matter what he has to pay 20,000 kuna, no matter what his, his SNV gets tens of millions of kuna from the state budget, he's bored and hard to sit here. But it's not boring for the Croats to watch the Serbs have tomorrow, the day after tomorrow. twice the right to vote, unlike the Croats who can only vote one. [[Invader: Thank you very much, time, thank you colleague Zekanovic]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-01-0.u61357	You get, you get a warning, this wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, this is kind of a replica. Here's my colleague Bulj, the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-01-0.u61358	Thank you very much. A colleague, Pupovac, injured the article as part of the one who is in the majority, he and the SDSS and HDZ, if a colleague of Pupovac, we must know that it is past the time of January 6th dictatorship. This is the democracy we have voted on and parliament is where it is being debated. Therefore, I believe that you have injured all parliamentary deputies, and the debate is fundamentally what we have in Parliament, and that is our Rules of Procedure, and the President is the one who should be in charge of this session, not you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-01-0.u61359	I thank you and you get and you get a warning, is that it's no violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, colleague Rasdic. Comrade Zekanovic, please turn off.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-01-0.u61360	A fellow Pupovac has been injured by an article. 238th Insultation of MPs. Namely, our speech according to the Rules of Procedure was called harassment. Parlo Parliament is telling her, we're here to talk, the MP restricts us, after two warnings we have to leave the session, so I don't see what harassment is. Croatian lawmakers in the past had a variety of experiences, from Radic in the Belgrade Assembly and beyond. Today we seem so delicate that if we stay 15 minutes to listen to two hours at work is already harassing.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-01-0.u61361	Thank you very much, and you get a warning because this is a replication, not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Now I ask you to take your seats so we can approach the vote. So I'm voting on the next conclusion. First, the proposal for a referendum law and secondly, any objections and proposals will be submitted to the applicant to consider them when determining the text of the final draft law. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? 101 MPs and MPs voted, 88 for, 4 abstentions and 9 against, and thus concluded that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies. The club of representatives of MOST proposes a meeting of 3 conclusions. The first is that the government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to initiate the procedure for amending the Republic of Croatia's constitution with regard to reducing the number of voters required to sign the national referendum. I am voting on the proposal for this conclusion. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? The conclusion did not get the required number of votes, 92 MPs and MPs voted, 13 were for, 3 abstentions, 76 against. The second conclusion of the Most Representatives' Club is that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to correct the injustice and to re-count voter signatures and their credibility and requests for a call for a state referendum of the citizens' initiative "The People's Decisions" on the amendment of electoral legislation, as well as the citizens' initiative "The Truth on Istanbul" since the proposed amendment of the Law on the referendum of the Government of the Republic of Croatia has recognised that the current law did not regulate the procedure for verifying the validity and credibility of the signature of citizens. I am putting this proposal to the vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? 96 deputies and MPs voted, 9 were in favour, 87 against, and the conclusion was not given the required number of votes. The third conclusion of the same club of representatives is also required by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to supplement the legislative provisions by reading the second reading of the Law on Referendum in such a way as to enable citizens to collect signatures electronically, and to amend the legal provisions in a way that reduces the number of voters needed to sign local referendums. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? 99 MPs and MPs voted, 23 were against, 76, and the conclusion was not given the required number of votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-01-0.u61379	Here's a good morning for a respected colleague and a colleague. Today we move on with the agenda. The item of the agenda is today: - Final proposal of the Law on the Completion of the Law on the European Convention on mutual judicial assistance in criminal matters since 20 April 1959. and additional protocol to the European Convention on mutual judicial assistance in criminal matters since 17 March 1978, second reading, P.Z. No. 176 The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, based on Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The above-mentioned Article. The 207th Rules of Procedure stipulates that the laws to be approved in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia shall be adopted as a rule in a single reading. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Dear Secretary of State Juro Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-01-0.u61380	The Honorable Vice President of HS, respected MPs and respected MPs. So, you have heard the point of the agenda and the name of the law, this law complements the Law confirming the European Convention on mutual judicial assistance in criminal matters since 20 April 1959. and an additional protocol to the European Convention on mutual judicial assistance in criminal matters since 17 March 1978. in a way that in law, we accepted it as a state in a succession procedure, and in '99. We in Parliament confirmed that law that we became a party to that Council of Europe Convention. In such a way as to add to the law Articles 3a and 3b to which the declarations to be made by the Republic of Croatia will be made by the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe in relation to the Convention and those Protocols. European Convention in mutual judicial assistance in criminal matters since April '59 It was confirmed by the law of 5 March 1999. It has been in force towards the Republic of Croatia since 5 August '99. The convention came into force in 1962. Additional Protocol to the European Convention on mutual judicial assistance in criminal matters since 17 March '78 It was confirmed by the law of 5 March 1999. It has been in force for the Republic of Croatia since 14 December 1999. The additional protocol came into force on 12 April '82. The Republic of Croatia has joined an enhanced cooperation project involving the Office of the European Public Prosecutor, which is responsible for investigating prosecutions, bringing indictments against perpetrators and co-criminals affecting the financial interests of the EU. By law implementing the Council of 12 October 2017, In the implementation of enhanced cooperation on the establishment of the European Public Prosecutor’s Office, the EPPO HS adopted a meeting on 18 December 2020. The law came into force on 28.5.2021. on the date of entry into force of Commission Implementing Decision of 26 May 2021. establishing the date on which the EPPO assumes investigative tasks and prosecution tasks. In line with that Commission Implementing Decision, EPPO started working on 1 June of this year. So not all EU members have joined the 27 EPPO project in order not to inform you who they are, I will not only say that they are not Hungary, Poland, Denmark, Ireland and Sweden, with Sweden at the final stage to join this project to strengthen cooperation in this area of criminal law. The Republic of Croatia is bound to the Article. 24. The European Convention on Mutual Judicial Assistance in Criminal Matters, when laying down the accession document, confirmed to the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe that, in the meaning of the Convention on Judicial Authorities in the Republic of Croatia, courts and state attorneys are considered to be. Furthermore, the Republic of Croatia is bound by Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Six. The second additional protocol with the European Convention on mutual judicial assistance in criminal matters. At the time of laying down the instrument of ratification, the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe confirmed in the same way that, in this respect, the judicial authorities are considered courts and state attorneys. The objective of this final draft law is to supplement earlier declarations made by the Republic of Croatia to the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe in accordance with Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 24. European Conventions on mutual judicial assistance in criminal matters and additional protocols in order to appoint the EPPO with courts and state attorneys as competent judicial authorities, a body and to provide it with a tool for international judicial cooperation with third countries, namely non-EU countries. As an EU Member State participating in enhanced cooperation on the establishment of a European Public Prosecutor, the Republic of Croatia declares that the Office of the European Public Prosecutor shall, in the exercise of its competence, consider the regulation as a judicial body for the purpose of issuing requests for mutual assistance in accordance with the Convention and its Protocols, as well as for the purpose of providing information and evidence that the European Public Prosecutor has already received or could receive after the initiation of investigations in the field of its jurisdiction. The text of the declaration was agreed at EU level with Member States which have joined enhanced cooperation in the establishment of a European Public Prosecutor's Institute. Declarations under this Act shall have effect from the date of their receipt by the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe. However, although this Law does not confirm an international agreement, statements that the Republic of Croatia will declare on an international basis are adopted and relate to the implementation of international contracts which are in force in relation to the Republic of Croatia, it is therefore the basis of adoption, the basis of the adoption of this Act. 207 The Rules of Procedure of the HS and the decisions of the Constitutional Court under which the laws, in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, are adopted in a single reading rule, and the procedure of adoption is initiated by the submission of a final proposal for a law confirming the international contracts before you. Thank you for your attention, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-01-0.u61381	Here, we have one replica, the esteemed representative of the Rose Wolf. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-01-0.u61382	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, we learn from unofficial sources that the recently established Office of the European Public Prosecutor in Croatia is checking concrete data related to the implementation of the Rural Development Programme, even more specifically related to the implementation of the project itself, Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem. Can you, of course, tell us within the framework of our jurisdiction whether information on certain irregularities is correct or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-01-0.u61383	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-01-0.u61384	... MPs. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] You're, as far as I know, and I'm familiar with my colleague, so you're a lawyer. You know that I come on behalf of the Government, that I belong to the executive authority, so as I just said, the European Public Prosecutor is an independent and independent body within the EU. Of course, and his delegated office of delegated prosecutors who have two in the Republic of Croatia, which is provided by the Republic of Croatia with all working conditions, we neither seek to have knowledge of their activities nor comment on them. So in that sense, they're absolutely independent and we have no idea if they're working, if there are elements, they're certainly doing their job. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-01-0.u61385	Thank you, Secretary of State. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? The committee of legislation, the judiciary? There isn't. Then we move on to the debate. The first is SDP MP club, a respected representative, Michel Jaksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-01-0.u61386	The Honorable Vice President of HS, State Secretary, colleagues, fellow parliamentary deputies. I will now make two at one, the Justice Committee has had a debate under this law and the decision on the law itself has been reached unanimously. I would also like to thank the representatives of the Ministry who took part in the Committee's work. Every amendment, where we are in line with European rights and European conventions, and this small attempt to debate in the European Prosecutor's Office in Zagreb, is certainly something that contributes to restoring our trust in the Croatian judiciary and that Croatia and in the judicial field become a full part, but not only of the prescribed laws, but also of the participation of our services in accordance with European directives and European laws. It is certain that it is something that contributes to further strengthening and raising the transparency of our system, but it is certainly something that shows that we too within ourselves can change the situation in our justice system. Therefore, such changes, such initiatives and such coordinations, as the SDP Club, we support and will also support the vote on this Law, and we hope that this is just another step that leads to further changes and our criminal laws, but also the situation in our judiciary through the takeover of initiatives and directives that have been shown in more developed countries than our countries and countries that have greater confidence in the judiciary as good and positive. Thanks again and we'll uphold the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-01-0.u61387	Next debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club. Dear Representative Krunoslav Katičić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-01-0.u61388	Well, here's the esteemed chairman, colleagues and colleagues. As is the introduction of a colleague from the Ministry, the Honorable Secretary of State, as you have initially said in your opening statement, means... The addition of one law that has already been passed and implemented in part in the Croatian legal system and, but this amendment or addition of this existing law and these European committees that are already being implemented by the existing law, I think that the preconditions are being created to be more accurate, these additions create additional tools and things, and that the European Public Prosecutor's Office, which was relatively recently formed in the Republic of Croatia, takes over all its powers and, in fact, create additional optimal conditions for it to take over fully that function and purpose it has, and this is designed to take over and from one link to one of our bodies, such as BOK, but we have the fact that there is a significant increase in crime in the EU area which it has international elements and on these 3 statements that will be implemented, indeed, will contribute to the fact that those who do not work with honor in the face of justice can be brought to justice. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What else do you say in that part? The fact, too, that these are complemented by the European Convention on Mutual Judicial Practice in Criminal Matters has not been signed by all EU members, but I think that given our position and the challenges we have, since we are one of the edge countries that borders and protects certain, in some way, EU borders, they further strengthen the security of all of us, including the entire citizens of the EU. Finally, I can say that the HDZ Club, as it has done on all the committees before which this bill was before, will support these... and supplementing the existing European Convention on mutual judicial assistance in criminal matters, and in this way I hope that we will contribute to the better work of the Croatian legal system. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-01-0.u61389	Next is the debate on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club, the respected representative, Ruzica Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-01-0.u61390	The Honorable Vice President of HS, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. The decentralised level of the Office of the European Public Prosecutor shall therefore consist of the delegated European Prosecutors who are located and who act on behalf of the Office of the European Public Prosecutor in their Member States and, with special powers and position and under the conditions laid down in the Regulation, have the same powers as the national prosecutor in respect of the prosecution, the prosecution and the investigation itself. They are as such an integral part of the European Public Prosecutor's Office, but remain operationally integrated into all national legal systems and national judicial structures and the prosecution structure. Basic issues concerning judicial co-operation, which are proposed to be regulated by this Law, are of paramount importance because quality cooperation between EU Member States is crucial in achieving a functional and effective justice system at EU level. Member States' mutual cooperation is primarily based on the implementation of the principle of mutual trust and mutual recognition. The implementation of the principle of mutual recognition in the fullness of its meaning and at the same time puts full trust and faith in the foreign judicial system and its judges, and even where the legal systems of the issuing state and the state of enforcement of certain instruments of judicial cooperation differ to a greater extent. In view of the importance of this type of cooperation, the reasons behind the refusal of judicial cooperation should be exclusively linked to the protection of fundamental human rights and thus the conduct of judicial authorities would lead to effective, rapid and simplified judicial cooperation that must be necessary to ensure an effective fight against crime, while ensuring that EU citizens are protected and justice is guaranteed by EU citizens. Namely, organisations and individuals dealing with inter-state organised crime are largely exploiting weaknesses of inefficient inter-state co-operation. This is why all Member States should work to establish quality judicial cooperation in criminal matters. Therefore, the refusal of judicial cooperation must only be based on the violation of the principles guaranteed by the EU Charter, which stipulates that the Union is based on the indivisible universal values of human dignity, freedom, equality and solidarity, and on the principles of democracy and the rule of law, and puts the individual at the heart of its action by establishing the status of Union citizens and creating an area of freedom, security and justice. However, while establishing judicial cooperation in criminal matters, it is necessary to respect the diversity of cultures and traditions of all peoples of Europe, the national identities of Member States and their authorities at national, regional and local level. And when we talk about the reasons for the establishment of the European Public Prosecutor's Office, I think it is important to present a few more information. According to estimates, EU countries lost 140 billion euros in value added tax revenue due to transnational fraud in 2018. The amount for 2020 could be higher due to the pandemic of Covid-19 disease on the EU economy. Of course, we're still waiting for the 2021 data. Member States have also reported that around 638m euros were incorrectly used in 2015 from EU structural funds. Before the European Public Prosecutor's Office began its work, investigations of such offences could only be carried out by national authorities whose tools are limited because the powers of those bodies cease at national borders. Similarly, the EU bodies that preceded the European Public Prosecutor's Office in the area, such as the European Anti-Fraud Office-OLAF, the EU Agency for the Cooperation of Law enforcement bodies-EUROPOL and the EU Criminal Justice Agency, cannot launch criminal investigations or prosecute in the Member States. Therefore, the Croatian public warmly welcomes the establishment of the Office of Public Prosecutors in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-01-0.u61391	Here, we've exhausted the debate with this. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. I now declare a break until 12 o'clock when there will be a vote. It's 9:50 a.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-01-0.u61392	Next, the Final Proposal for a Law supplementing the European Convention on mutual judicial assistance in criminal matters since 20 April 1959. and additional protocol to the European Convention on mutual judicial assistance in criminal matters since 17 March 1978, second reading, P.Z. No. 176, the applicant is a government, the debate is concluded, I am voting on the final proposal of that law. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? Exactly 100 MPs voted, and the MPs were all in favour so that the law was passed. The annual report on the work of the Competition Protection Agency for 2020 is submitted to the Competition Protection Agency. We will vote here in accordance with article. 4th century. 4th century. It's the head of the HS. The annual report on the work of the Agency for the Protection of the Competition for 2020 shall be adopted in accordance with the proposal of the National Assembly Working Body. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? 90 MPs and MPs voted, 88 for, 2 abstentions, and concluded that it was proposed by the parliamentary working body.
