ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u57765	Now we will temporarily interrupt this point because we have to go to the hearings at 13 o'clock, so the first club to apply for the position of MOST Representative Club, the respected representative of Nino Rasudić, is the first club to apply for the presentation of the position.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u57766	The Honorable Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, yesterday's powerful verdict of the Supreme Court, which ordered the HDZ and was ordered a sentence is a unprecedented case that deserves consideration for the Croatian Parliament's speaker. When a tree falls on it, everyone knows it well in HDZ, we know how Ivo Sanader fell into the loneliest man in Croatia. The loneliness of Ivo Sanader was a great deal of how great was the love shown to him by the HDZ until the fall. She knows that well, and Jadranka Kosor summed it up in that tragic story about how she was coming down the stairs in Vatroslav Lisinski after losing the inside elections and from a bunch of people who were at the beginning of the stairs with her at the bottom there was no one left. He knows this and Tomislav Karamarko, who was elected president of Lisinski by acclaim, so that a short time later another character of the same people would be chosen in the same way. It's not a gentleman's shoe to the one who fell, but we're not talking about the people who fell, but about the people who are the government and who show no awareness of the need for at least an apology and the political consequences of this yesterday's verdict, and the ultimate thing would be to call new choices that would test whether the citizens are the same ones from 2004-2009 or others. This is not only an individual responsibility because Ivo Sanader was not only judged as well as a party, so as we like to say, the SDP is a follow-up of the Croatian Communist Union with all the actual symbolic capital inherited by the HDZ in 2021 not only by the criminal convicted organisation but by the same party. What can I do? Maybe change the name as the HYPO bank changed on behalf of Addiko Bank so they can be some hazezezejka or maybe call themselves trans hdz so they can say that they subjectively feel like a fair and clean party and that we have to treat them like that, as they introduce them to legislation that a man who starts to feel subjective as a woman must be recognized as such, trans hdz. Interestingly, they would inherit Franjo Tudjman and HDZ's symbolic capital, which was at the head of the country when it was created and defended, but on the other hand they have nothing to do with what happened between. Andrej Plenkovic said yesterday that he joined in 2011 and buried all those who were part of HDZ at the time covered the verdict, and especially senior officials who are still here today, such as Jandrokovic, Bačić, Suica and the chairman. Will HDZ president apologize and call the election? He won't. Will Jandrokovic, Bačić and others who were at the time important in HDZ and who Plenkovic were fenced from everything before 2011? He won't. But all of this aside, the problem is that a corrupt HDZ wolf not only doesn't change the temper, but it doesn't change a hair. the external appearance of what is manifested by the competition for the head director of HRT and the deeply wet person being pushed past and past the law and the Rules of Procedure, which we will probably talk about in the small hours away from the eyes of the viewer of our public RTV service because as we know HRT 4 after two afternoons does not transmit the assembly sessions. After all, and I see you have something here for the close associates of Mr. Ivo Sanader I congratulate you on his second-degree sentence of eight years has been reduced to seven years. They say that true love never ceases, but that it continues to smolder hidden in the depths of the heart, so I am convinced that all of you who have touched it as well as Plenkovic today in the most intimate depth of your heart is still a little glad that his punishment has been reduced by a year, so in this great trouble that has hit you at least congratulate you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u57827	The latest statement of the position of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives, respected Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u57828	Thank you. Here, now that our colleagues have been hurting each other in a business way, we can start with some specific questions. First, prices of global energy growth that cause serious disturbances and inflation already hit our citizens very seriously. So, apart from the economy itself that has been affected, it is certainly the worst consequence of the citizens, which is the rise in fuel prices, the rise in gas prices and the prices of heat delivered. However, we all know that this price growth does not stop, so we do not need to doubt that both producers and traders will switch energy prices to citizens and that already happens for every one of us who goes to the store can notice how many daily intentions we need in the household as much prices have already increased. In this situation, in the situation where we have agreed, or governments that have so far agreed to liberalise the energy market, the government has several mechanisms that can limit the rise of energy prices to citizens. It's the first of course to cut the charges. The reduction of excise duties on fuel is one option, and the other is to use the possibility given to the Government by the Law on the Market in Oil and Oil Products, which is that by regulation, by means of its own act, it sets the maximum price of oil and petroleum products on the market when it requires, inter alia, the consumer protection issue. And now we're getting interesting. Yesterday was a meeting of the government, the Economic and Social Council on this particular subject. On this particular subject, the restrictions on energy price growth. What the government has told the unions, for example, and other members of the GSV, is that it does not want to intervene for now. That was yesterday morning, noon. That he doesn't want to intervene, that he's going to follow up on the price hike and that he's going to eventually go for a raise in minimum minimum wage. Afterwards, we are at the Green-Left bloc Club to submit a proposal for a conclusion of a meeting that would oblige the government to intervene in both fuel and gas prices and supplied heat. In the afternoon, however, we know that there is a major twist, the HDZ verdict comes due to responsibility for corruption. And what's going on today? Today, the prime minister solemnly announces that he is changing his decision not to intervene in the price of gas, finds a solution that was in front of him all the time, which is that according to the Oil and Oil Market Act, he can limit the price of fuel and, as Deus ex machina, appears in front of citizens and says he will save the price of fuel growth. But it doesn't say another important thing, which is that it won't affect what our households are most affected by, which is the rise in gas prices delivered by heat that, during the heating season, make up, of course, one of the largest items of our households, or the greatest cost to all our citizens. Therefore, to remind the prime minister that the price for corruption that has been established and confirmed by the Supreme Court's verdict yesterday to his party that this price cannot be only to limit the price of fuel. Today, we will draw a conclusion or is already directed to intervene both in the price of gas and heat delivered. In fact, in this price, it can be intervened to limit the growth and prices, or to mitigate its impact only in a way that reduces VAT on gas delivered and heat. And what we are asking is for these goods and services to be entered in Article 38(3) of the VAT Act, i.e. to be taxed at a rate of 13% and delivered electricity. So we already have an example, not that it would be out of some frames. What is evident is that this government saves citizens only when it actually saves itself and this is Prime Minister Plenkovic's decision today that by chance this verdict was not published yesterday we would still have to watch fuel prices rise and the government doesn't really intervene. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u57829	We're done taking a stand. The position of the HDZ Representatives Club is followed by a respected representative, Damir Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u57903	Thank you very much. The Honorable Vice President of HS, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here in my free speech, I will look back at a single single phrase that spreads some opposition MPs in media space to collect cheap political points, and I mean the HDZ judiciary's syntax. How many times has the sentence been spoken in this assembly and during yesterday's debate on the candidate of the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. Yesterday's Supreme Court verdict is the best proof that such a statement and similar comments do not stand. If the proceedings conducted and the waters against high-ranking officials do not show you that there is no speech on the HDZ judiciary then the argument given by yesterday's verdict definitely falls into the water of the HDZ position in terms of the Croatian judiciary is quite clear, we give it full support and support to be independent and independent in its work. Whether or not there are others and whether some judges are working potentially under the pressure of our political opposition representatives of opposition parties and also the rhetoric of President Milanovic, it is not up to us from HDZ to comment. Therefore, the numerous malicious inaccuracies we have heard recently about the influence of the HDZ on the Croatian judiciary have proved to be demagogues, as empty flossules and an example of the lowest opposition to HDZ. Here I also want to make a statement that one of my predecessors used to say and mention an apology, so I'm asking when will an apology come from those who are now calling for her and who were dancing, for example, a round with Lovric Merzel? When will an apology come from the people who hugged and cried together with Kovac? When will an apology come from people who have given support to the so-called. The rapist Sanader? When will the SDP who has been untransparently spending its commitments during the former mayor's campaign, and then your member Milan Bandic apologize for that? When are we gonna wait for that period? It is a syntagma of colleagues, i.e. it is a syncope of counterpart Hajdukovic. Talking about collective responsibility is legally incorrect, but you know it well, so it's embarrassing. I would briefly refer to yesterday's verdict and make it very clear that the verdict, and you know very well, is not covered or declared to be the wrong HDZ members. The ruling concerns then party president Ivo Sanader and the time period 2004-2009. when the government president was the same and the fact that he abused his official position as prime minister. In view of the above, there has been a link between the legal person and HDZ with the guilt of the person responsible, i.e. Eve Sanader. Regulation (EU) No 515/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005 (OJ L 348, 30.12.2013, p. 1). 5. The law on the liability of legal persons for criminal offences is prescribed that liability is therefore not guilty but the responsibility of the legal person is based on the guilt of the responsible person. Therefore, HDZ has not been found guilty, HDZ has been found responsible. We can withdraw analogy from, for example, companies or companies if you want to and if you find it funny, so whose director or member of the administration is found guilty by the law itself and the legal person that company will be responsible. Are the employees of this company then also members of the criminal organization as you point out these days? Are they also members of a corrupt company? Therefore, there is no collective responsibility nor are the members of the political party to blame, nor are the employees of that company to blame for the illegal actions of the director or members of the administration. This verdict has nothing to do with membership, has nothing to do with the work of officials who were acting in certain responsibilities at the time. And by the end of the messages to our political opponents, everyone who wants to make a case out of this case I repeat that HDZ has repeatedly proven state-of-the-art policy because unlike all the opposition respects the decisions of the Croatian state institution. I would also like to stress that today's HDZ has won the election twice convincingly, divided, divided and unconstructive opposition. This government, the majority of the HDZ-led assembly, will continue to lead the state to the benefit of citizens, not a constructive opposition that uses this situation to score several cheap points, we recommend that it will not last long and that it is better to join a constructive debate in this House of Commons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u57904	We have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure, the first one is Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u57905	Thank you. He's been injured. 238th insult of common sense and counsel. So, fellow Habib, these aren't cheap political points, these are very expensive political points that pay all the citizens and taxpayers of this country like I said, and the excuses you asked for from the SDP, I agree, because of that I am no longer in the SDP, because of Kovac, because of Ikic Baniček and similar ones who do not cooperate with the DORH, you are still in HDZ as far as I know, so please, when you call out who and why.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u57906	This was your replica, you have a warning. Next to the violation of the Rules of Procedure of Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u57907	The violation of Article 238, so it is clear that if a process lasts 11 years, it is no proof that our judiciary is effective and independent. According to my information, this decision was taken in June at the Supreme Court and I'm asking why the announcement was pending. Why was the announcement waiting for the day when we were discussing the new Supreme Court president, maybe if he didn't come there to see that the team was waiting to announce that verdict or maybe you were waiting for certain processes? in SDP and DP so you can [[Intruder: Time.]] to say how the opposition was divided. [[Intruder: Time.]] That's what he's saying. on the independence of the judiciary. [[Intruder: Time.]] This is how long it takes. this process. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u57908	You get a warning because this wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Next violation of the Rules of Procedure, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u57909	Thank you very much. I have raised the breach of the Rules of Procedure for my colleague Hajdukovic, Article 238, he degrades our mind and our senses because by yesterday, a member of the SDP is no longer responsible for anything because he left the SDP then we are constantly all to blame for some other people who were there in HDZ until 2009. What's the problem? He's a man and his organization falsified the signatures, they didn't even have a candidate for mayor, and they teach us moral lessons. I guess today's party, the same SDP, does the legal person's responsibilities for the 2009 campaigns. Bandića And the whole team that was saying that SDP [[Intruder: Time.]] i.e. [[Intruder: Time.]] Bandic is the best candidate for mayor. Did you forget that? You're not, you're not responsible, okay. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u57910	A reminder to you, too, because this wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Nicola Grmoy's breach of the Rules of Procedure again.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u57911	Article 238 was injured, I know that the prime minister put Joseph Boric, who at the time of Sanader was state secretary and assistant at the Ministry of Transport when the tunnels were painted, I understand his frustration, but it would be good to calm down a bit and allow a more constructive debate here.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u57912	And another reminder to you on this subject. Mr. Boric's breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u57913	Thank you very much. Again, Article 238, a colleague of Grmoy usually demeans me personally for my duties. I can tell myself that there are no tails behind me as long as you want to impose this on me. I have no charges, no convictions, no witnesses anywhere, etc., and what you're saying to yourself is that you're a loser and an incompetent politician like you said here yesterday, that you're incapable of defeating anyone in a direct campaign, that's a picture of you as a person and that big political ace who keeps us here daily about morals. And basically... [[Intruder: Time.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u58100	The following statement of view on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club, the respected representative Marijana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u58101	Dear colleagues and colleagues, as you know, the Ministry of Labour, Pensions, Family and Social Policy has published a proposal for a new Social Welfare Act, which is currently under public debate. Under the proposal, all family homes for older and powerless persons in Croatia are abolished. The government has opted for this move because it has proved problematic, they say, have not met their goal. We witnessed early last year a great tragedy in the Andrasevec family home that raised a number of questions about the illegal business of a certain part of such homes. Lack of capacity, catastrophically poor accommodation conditions. In fact, it has surfaced all of the system’s shortcomings in caring for persons 3 years of age. However, rather than facing this problem through quality dialogue with experts, find an adequate solution, improve and improve the system through the introduction of regular and thorough inspection controls, if there are homes that do not work in accordance with the law or the law close them to this government, it is obviously easier to liquidate such a service regardless of whether, without taking into account the consequences for citizens. By abolishing family homes, the government seems to be trying to end the problem, not solve the problem. At the same time, he forgets that the old powerless people who need accommodation are not some abstract category in social care statistics, but the real people to whom the state is obliged to help. How is it possible that no quality alternative is provided and that people are left behind? This decision despite all announcements that homes will not be abolished overnight implies the absence of any responsibility for persons of 3 lifetime. A similar thing happened at the same time and with accommodation for carefree children. The accommodation facilities of the institutions have been reduced since they started in the process of deinstitutionalisation, but no sufficient number of foster families have been provided. Social care experts say they have no place with children since the facilities are filled, and no foster families. The problem will now be faced by pensioners who need accommodation. People won't have anywhere but private homes for which the vast majority of them don't have enough money. This is a typical example of the HDZ governance model throughout the country at all its levels. There is no long-term planning, no vision and no elaborate system of action of quality standards or real responsibility to citizens, and especially to vulnerable groups. I will remind Croatia according to publicly available information has only 50 public homes for older people, and waiting lists refer to a period of up to 10 years. It was precisely family homes that needed to ease the disproportionateness between the demand for accommodation and the minimum capacities that the state offers to their shame. By abolishing family homes, more than 6,000 people could remain on the road. The ministry announced it would equip 8 centres for older people who would provide services in their own homes where pensioners live, and accommodation only in exceptional cases when a person is completely dependent on other people's help. The deadline for building these centers is 2026, with the capacity of only 800 users. We call therefore on the Minister to listen to the observations of the professional associations, to listen to the association here and the Voice of the Entrepreneurs who made objective remarks on these amendments to the law, and above all to think about all those old and powerless who will be left without accommodation in this way. Here's some statistics that are, here's what came out in the media. According to the Croatian Ministry of Labour, there are 3 state homes, 45 decentralised county homes and 121 private homes for older and powerless persons. In addition to these, accommodation services provide 516 other service providers, legal and physical persons, religious communities, crafts, associations, companies. In the homes of social care there are 16.613 users, and total of all accommodation providers of old and powerless persons 28.527 users. The social care centres are currently subject to 7,430 accommodation applications. Here's what these amounts are, so they're all going to be threatened by this decision to abolish family homes and simply our old and powerless will remain on the road. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u58205	Next is the presentation of the position of the Club of Representatives of HSS and RF, respected representative Zeljko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u58206	... To discuss his former colleague, as far as Eve Sanader's brother's concerned, so I would free him from some man going home, which you're torturing him with nonsense. [[Specially enabled.]] What I want to talk about in free speech is one tragedy that takes place in agricultural production in the Republic of Croatia all agricultural production has failed, and only warfare has worked, livestock farming especially dairy, vegetables, fruit growing special apple production has been simply destroyed, and soon this is being prepared for the warfare of the Republic of Croatia. The prices of artificial fertilisers not have grown but have gone wild, the urea has been collected more than three times, for more than three times from 1,940 kuna per tonne to 6,343 kuna, all the other fertilisers have been collected, so I will try to give you a picturesque picture on my economy of 26 hectares. Last year, I was completely costing an artificial seed fertiliser of 45,000 kunas with VAT, and by today's price list, and today I have here a price list from 23.9.2020 and 18. '21. So the next crop would cost me instead of 45,000 kuna 130,000 kuna for manure alone. Believe me, a lot of smaller economies won't be able to do this, they won't be able to pay this amount that might not even be final. Many will have to cut in half or three times less manure. And you know what that means? This means that production will fall to us in at least half the first year, and second year even more because there are some more supplies in the soil to be used, but they will wear out. In the last term, I spoke at the time of the privatisation of Petrochemy that Petrochemy should remain largely in the majority state property. Of course, then many laughed here and laughed that little peasant Leonard knew about what he was racing, what he knew about economy, privatisation, geopoliticalism, but I'm sorry to say that I was right. Today, and I am from Kutina, the production of urea and ammonia in Kutina stands for a while, it is questionable that for the next crop we will be able to have affordable fertilisers and in the extent that we will pay for power, and the state simply has no impact on the production of artificial fertilisers that are nutritious for food production and without which intensive agricultural production that feeds the population is unimaginable. Now, dear gentlemen who have raised your hands for this privatisation for all that has happened, for handing it over to the PPD and the INA-MOL who are now even calculating to sell it to the Turks, I ask you what you're going to say to the peasants, what are you going to say to the agricultural sector why these fertilisers are so expensive? The gas in Croatia did not collect 3 times, it did not add up 300%, why did the fertilisers collect 300%? Gas is raw material for the production of fertilisers, but it's not 100% crude gas, so it's up by 3%. There's a stone, there's other raw materials that didn't collect that much. Where is the government of the Republic of Croatia now to report on this problem, to sit down with the owner and try to find a model so that it doesn't? I think there's going to be a problem with the import of fertilisers and what I said in the recent debate that we're one step ahead of hunger, and here it is, already getting closer, already coming closer to my people. Let the pandemic strengthen, let more things get complicated, already and now is the availability and supply of goods in the problem. I'm asking you what we're gonna eat in '22-23. And '24.? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u58278	Following is the statement of view on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, Honored Representative Siniša Hajdas Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u58279	Thank you. Energy Efficiency Fund i.e. In 15.9., the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund issued a public call for the energy reconstruction of houses, and for this 300 million plus 100 million kuna are foreseen, so for the restoration of houses that were affected by the earthquake and 20 thousand people who were interested in the household were prepared, so there were conditions, so this is an energy certificate that cost you up to 3,000 kuna on the market, and also some of them, depending on the type of application, were supposed to make the main project, the main project is also somewhere in cca. 7,000 kuna. And what's going on? 14.10. again, it's probably the fastest finger and citizen or something like that that starts reporting, so it's today and today the whole system falls, there's no application. So, as it's possible that something that's probably being prepared, something that I should use, so I won't speak English, I'll probably harmonize the entire system so it can actually be streaming at the first moment it falls, and then we wonder why the recovery from the earthquake is late. So, the ministry and the fund can't conduct a simple competition, and the reason for that is simply creaminess and simple unpreparedness and simply not managing the system. So, instead of always, we can and must make a proposal after the criticism, instead of doing it this way, you should introduce several years of programmes so that the pre-known schedule of competitions or even better open competitions through systematic funding, and we see that this does not work technical assistance, therefore that would be focused on both local communities and citizens and units of local administrations and self-government and on civil society organisations and some regional, and God and energy agencies, cooperatives, energy cooperatives that are not even mentioned in Croatia, educational institutions, so that you can generally strengthen some adjenda or a plan called a green plan in cities or municipalities. Today's funds are being placed through the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund tender, so normally I say by competition they are being allocated by 40% to 80% of the eligible investment costs. So again at one point and too many amounts of subsidies lead you to clean market distortions because many entities, so many households that have been waiting for a tender and invested some funds, precisely because of the limited resources, cannot go to that competition, and some, to say, some investments energy, so to speak, to say rebuilding, which are actually roofs, facades, light, boilers, heat cranes, are not actually implemented, and they are either physical or cost-effective and without subsidies. And what is then another consequence of that, so besides having what we have under quotes imported inflation and thus such a way of calling the competition that happens all at once starting with those kindergartens, means all of a sudden in Croatia must be instead of working on a time scale dispersion, you again weigh price growth because there is not enough construction sector, but everything is being called the same day. So what we are appealing in the SDP to do is to make that timeline multi-year program that is not everything in January, March or April, means that it is distributed throughout the year, to enable the construction sector, as well as individuals to plan certain things. Now, probably for the Environmental Protection and Energy Efficiency Fund, planning is flat for the Spanish village because something that needs to be programmed, something that needs to be introduced more advanced models of public funding, what I'm now telling them about guaranteed or refurbished funds, about mezanin financing, about something that actually the fund should be dealing with and discover innovative solutions when they are not able to conduct a simple competition and system, so the information system, so adapts to one contest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u58334	Following is the presentation of the position on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS, HSU and Independent Representatives, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u58335	Dear colleagues and colleagues, dear Vice President. On Sunday, October 17th, the International Day for Combating Poverty and Social Exclusion is marked. This year we mark it in the aftermath of the Covid-19 pandemic, labour market disturbances and rising energy prices and all that is vital and necessary for life. It's hard, and poverty has many faces and I don't want to talk today about mental, moral or emotional poverty that they can, but they don't have to be closely associated with material poverty. I want to talk about material poverty, and I would define it as a poverty or lack of the basic life needs of a man in nutrition, hygiene, housing, medicines, movement and communication with others. The delusions are that only some social groups are poor, such as pensioners because there are many poor and unemployed. The delusions are that poverty can only be spoken of by the poor, pensions only by the pensioners. That would mean that football is the only thing football players can say or sick about sick people, and it's not like that. Poverty and its growth are the problem of today's world when people are increasingly alienated from the means of work, when the world order of a rich country and individuals makes them richer and poorer, when the world is ruled by levers of finance, armies, media, technology, when natural resources belong to all air, water, earth, ore, energy in the hands of a small number of great predators who think they will live forever and will not. What little country, beware Milan has more inhabitants than we do, can it do for its poor citizens? If the phenomenon of growing poverty is not approached phenomenally, do not access phenomenally and professionally with clearly set goals is not expected to expect great solutions. I personally want to participate in something well designed, leading to a better and reduced level of poverty in Croatia. What do we do? I think that we must have our own model first of all to determine and move the poverty line in Croatia, to identify where we are now, to set a goal and give ourselves a task within which we will achieve the protection of our citizens who have incomes less than the poverty line. European statistics are good as an indicator, but we are in vain pressed that we are a normal state should be, there will be nothing if we just talk and talk too much. We do not favor those who shout on a daily basis with 800,000 pensioners living below the poverty line, where workers are still minimal and unemployed. It turns out to be 1/3 of the poor. We're not gonna do anything like that. It's no use to regrets and false tears. It's got to work. A picture of Croatia when we look at property and income, these family averages are not in line with these figures, but no one wants to set up 3 censors, property, income and income, and to count the really poor in this small and for the mugging of the creative country. The fight against poverty is a lot of measures, a whole range of workers' salaries, pensions, social assistance, health care, giving, but also not taking the poorest, many designed measures that are complemented and make up one mosaic of protection. The mosaic measure must be based on laws and legal census that are harmonised at the annual level once helps, but does not solve the problem. This month, this House should adopt my Bill on Voluntary Health Insurance, which is the essence of an increase in income rates to 2,500 kuna per member, i.e. 2,000 kuna per family member, and 2,500 per single person for the WHO, which is a contribution for citizens with the lowest incomes to be relieved of payments of 840 kuna per year, which means half of a pension to one large number and fully available health care. I will also present a new model of family pensions by the end of this month that I will work with the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Finally, in order to fight poverty, they do not need empty words, false tears, and compassion, but works, many works, and shifts will come. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u58351	The following statement on behalf of the Social Democrats Club, a respected representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic, is on behalf of the Social Democrats Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u58352	Thank you very much. Again, I must say that I am very disappointed that the debate on the Anti-Corruption Strategy has been removed from the agenda because this would indeed be a symbolic day for us to discuss. The day we comment on the verdict of the process of all processes in Croatia's recent political history, which is the one against Ivo Sanader. And I'm not surprised by the verdict in the end, we all expected it was just confirmed what we all knew, which is that the only credibility of colleagues and colleagues from HDZ on the right is the only consistency of corruption. I'm not surprised. What surprises me is that some citizens will persistently give their trust to those who have proven themselves again and showed what they are inclined to do and what they are consistent with. And now our colleagues and colleagues are making fun of the same HDZ, making fun of us because they don't even want to apologize for what would be a minimum of human and moral behavior. And why the minimum? I'll tell you. Because even though he will return, even though the prime minister and president announced he will pay back the money, a certain amount of money they are charged with, I'm asking you where he's coming from. Whether to work black bags or return from the money the party receives for political action. If it comes back from this second one, then you pay your colleagues and colleagues as taxpayers. Then we will, then HDZ will pay for corruption for our money. You see the irony in this, and they don't even want to apologize to us for it. What is probably the most widespread disease in the HDZ political elite is syncope. Now Eve Sanader doesn't remember anyone, no one worked with him now, no one was at a time when he was president of the HDZ, I don't know where that Ivo Sanader came from, and I don't know if there's anyone in the photos surrounding him, I guess, both the current and the former HDZ. The syncope happened because nobody remembers anything now and I don't want to say that all the colleagues and colleagues in HDZ are responsible, especially criminally responsible, I don't want to say or can say for what happened, but there is political responsibility for a colleague and colleagues. Political responsibility is embodied in the person most often sitting behind me, which is the president of HS. It's the first among the equals here and it's the second man of the state under our constitution. It's the person who sat in the HDZ presidency when this all happened and told me, I repeat, I can't say or want to question criminal responsibility, but there is a political one. And in a courteous state, in a developed democratic society, I wouldn't even have to say this right now, and that's what I expect from the political responsibility of his resignation, but he would do it himself because it seems to me that my colleagues and colleagues are hanging out, and that's Ivo Sanader, and the others will all pass as if nothing happened because you know HDZ is not a follower of a thieving corruption organization, no. But as a former member of the SDP, I was a commie, a SCOY, and as far as I know, and I was a follower of something negative even though it was probably my only sin that I was born in the former state, not this one. And now they're justifying themselves when they joined the HDZ and they happened to be passing by and found themselves in a photo with Ivo Sanader. So laugh at someone else, lie to someone else, and at least give it to me to be more inventive in those lies because I'm embarrassed and I feel embarrassed when I listen to such nonsense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62854	Good morning, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. I see that there are plenty of hands in the air, just to announce the first point: - Report on the effects of implementing measures under the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases during the Covid-19 outbreak caused by the SARS-COV-2 virus in the Republic of Croatia for the period from 1 June to 31 August 2021. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament adopted at the 4th session of 4 December 2020. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Health and Social Policy. Now we will give the opportunity to explain the breaks, the first is the respected colleague Selak Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62855	I'm looking for a break on behalf of the MOST Club because we haven't received a report on the effects of implementing the measures. So what we've got here has no concrete methodology and at the level of one ingredient that depends on the interpretation of the one who wrote it and its inspiration, not on what this report should focus on. In that sense, we lack some crucial information in this report. The first is how many citizens have ever suffered from postcovid syndromes and how they are treated. Secondly, what is really happening with the health of our citizens if we know that every third person in Croatia will die of cancer, and this is the direct consequence of these measures as is the direct consequence of the fact that more than 50% at the beginning, and now more than 30% of the people in Croatia skipped the reviews. We don't know anything about the criteria for the delivery of vaccines, nor have we been informed of them. Why 18 million and not more or less? We don't know why the survivors aren't included in the statistical analysis. And the most important problem of communication is key data. This report, unlike the previous reporting period, shows us a significant increase in the deaths of Covid, who were vaccinated 7.92% with one dose and 14.19% vaccinated with two doses, a total of 22.11% of those who died from Covid and were vaccinated. At the same time, the minister in public communicates exclusively information that the vaccine is proven to protect against the most severe forms of disease and death. Why are our citizens who are vaccinated also at risk of being seriously infected and killed? So, because of all these shortcomings We're looking for a break to consult on the meaning of this report. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62856	The apartment will be approved. The second one's up, pal Pavlichek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62857	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, we are looking for a break of 10 minutes on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns Club to further consult on this point, but also to reiterate once again that we have been in some paranormal system for the last year and that the whole society is being transformed and comes to collective madness. In fact, the Political Civil Protection Centre has made primarily a series of political decisions, not epidemiologically justified decisions. Let us remember a number of contradictory decisions from the fact that masks do not protect them and that healthy people do not have to wear them until the masks are mandatory, from children within the class not being allowed to socialise until the same children come to school on the same bus, from the vaccine being protected by over 95% in order to ultimately prove that they still protect themselves with only 35% of the new Delta soy. I wonder if we have any strategy to get out of this crisis, and is it not time to simply change our attitude towards Covida-19 itself or not to bomb people every day and the entire Croatian public as many infected as there are, how many have been tested, how many hospitalized. Imagine that for the last 20 years, 30 people have been bombarding you with how many people today are suffering from cancer, from brain tumors, from this or that malignant disease. They'd turn into a big psychiatric facility. I think I'm a relationship to Covid-19 has to change drastically because if this relationship continues, I think we'll all end up on this or those sedatives, which is definitely not good for our nation's mental health.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62858	The apartment will be approved. Now it's time for the esteemed coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62859	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, dear Mr. Secretary. Yesterday again, after a long time, we had numbers that crossed 2,000 infected, over 20 dead. This is terrible, and we can all agree on that, but there is another terrible statement, which is a statement by Minister Berosha that he and the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia were surprised by these figures yesterday. But respected colleagues and colleagues are surprised when it is evident that Croatia does not have a clear strategy to fight the pandemic, but what is more important than that Croatia does not have a clear strategy to ensure that the number of people who have been vaccinated is increased. If you look at some countries that are different to us by many things, like Portugal, then we see that they managed to ensure that 85% of the adult population is being vaccinated. And how did they ensure that? Among other things, Portugal has not declared victory against the pandemic, which Portugal has not once given up fighting for some other interests, which Portugal has not sent to citizens any messages that can be understood in different ways and that have confused the citizens of that country. Dear Minister, I believe, however, I am deeply convinced that you want the situation to be improved in Croatia, there is no doubt about it, but Mr. Minister, respecting what you are doing does not contribute to that, however, because of your contrivement the figures are at this point as they are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62860	Heidukovic will now explain the break. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62861	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On behalf of the Social Democrats Club, I demand a 10-minute break to consult on further participation in the session because I must again express my dissatisfaction that we are the second item to be on the agenda today, which is the Anti-Corruption Strategy replaced with each other. If I were the wicked president of HS, I'd say most of them knew what the verdict would be and that's why you removed the point, and the verdict is that HDZ was guilty, that HDZ was led by a thief and HDZ had to pay back the money, and that money was funny to what the team had blacked out. 14 million kuna is nothing. So I think it was never more important to discuss how we will fight corruption, how we will try to reach this greatest evil of the 21st century, the 20th century I would dare say the modern Croatian state as it leads and sees the HDZ now and the convicted Thieves' party. So I think we need to discuss this point urgently, maybe early next week if we haven't already done it today. But once again, the strongest protest is that this item is not on the agenda today because today is too late, we should have discussed it a month ago, we should have discussed it immediately at the beginning of the fall HS session.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62862	So, the Anti-Corruption Strategy will be discussed next week, and we have a debate on the director of HRT today because of deadlines that bind us and that is the only reason. I didn't even know there was going to be a verdict or what the verdict would be. Let's move on, now it's time for my colleague, Peovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62863	Good afternoon. I am discussing a break on behalf of the club HSS and RF for 10 minutes so that we can consult again on this report and on what is the context of this report. I would like to remind you that, in front of the Workers' Front in December of last year, we made a proposal for healthcare professionals involved in the fight against covids in respiratory centres to be approved and allowed to have an unfettered work experience. We felt that this was the minimum to be made for our health workers, workers involved in one of the biggest health crises since World War I to get some sort of compensation, the kind of compensation that this government offered in the form of a covid supplement is certainly not enough, so some healthcare workers even insulted the height of these covid supplements. We got a government explanation among other things and it's impossible to identify this situation with the situation of war that we pulled as a parallel because it's a temporary condition. So the covid was marked in December last year as a temporary condition, we see that it's all just not a temporary condition. If from last year to today not that nothing has been solved but these people are working under the same conditions or even worse conditions since there has been a certain fatigue of material compared to December last year not only should the well-preserved work experience be taken as some compensation but, of course, any other form of compensation would be good. But if there is no possibility of financial assistance that would be more significant, and other countries have provided such financial assistance, once again we call for the benefit of the work experience to be a solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62864	Now he's going to explain to his esteemed colleague, Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62865	Dear Mr. President, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. We are aware and we are witnessing that one whole series of people refuse to accept that free vaccination and free testing are actually called for two reasons, one is human rights, and the other is allegedly unproven action and even the harmfulness of the vaccine, unnecessary wearing masks, etc., I would actually ask the question in the request for a break, and I hope that the minister will answer the power in his speech and these two questions. It's one thing to talk about human rights that you and the whole society would do if, for example, tens of thousands of doctors and nurses were in the first year of Covid pandemic when there was no cure, when there was no vaccine that they called for their human rights, fear of sickness and fear of death, and that they refused to treat patients because that's also human rights. Human right to health, it says in the Constitution. And the second is, you'd take that for example, you're a neurosurgeon that your colleagues say it's not proven that masks protect patients, hats protect patients, gloves protect patients on occasion of surgery and refuse to wear masks, hats, gloves on occasion of surgery. These are comparable situations, so I am very interested in how society, especially the profession, would react to that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62866	We have another request for a break. Comrade Dretar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62867	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am looking for a break on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Homeland Movement for 10 minutes to express once again or to consult to express our disagreement with most of these events, or the way this whole Croatia is led through this crisis. You may not know who Verica Jakos Mayarec is, the wife of an ordinary maid at the Croatian Veterans Hospital in Zabok, the woman is away from work because of course she did not want to approach the test and did not have Covid certificate, she lost that work day, and believe me with salaries in Croatia Zagorje that one working day is very valuable to her. Once again, we would like to remind you, I will read from this decision that a woman is away from her post with decisions or civil protection authorities of the Republic of Croatia and from the instructions of the HZJZ. I ask you once again, remind you and claim that the Croatian Parliament is a top legislative body that can and must make such a decision, not that it descends to the level of headquarters regardless of their intricacies or expertise. So we're looking for another break to tell Covid the crisis is being irresponsiblely and irrationally managed in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62868	Is anyone else picking up? No, then we'll take a break by 10:00. It's 9:00.46. Dear colleagues and colleagues, please take your seats so we can continue our work. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 10.01 HOURS]] Now, the proposaler's representative will give us an additional explanation of the report. With us is the Honorable Minister of Health, Willy Berosh. Mr. Minister, come in. I'm asking you to just hold the plates until your colleague signals you if she saw you so it wouldn't be this one, that it wouldn't have been seen. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62870	Mr. President-in-Office of HS, the honourable parliamentary MPs, the parliamentary representatives. Based on the conclusion of the HS Conclusion on the delivery of the Report on the effects of the implementation of the measures under the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases during the Covid-19 outbreak caused by the Sars-COV-2 virus in the Republic of Croatia on behalf of the Government, I am reporting on the effects of the implementation of measures for the period from 1 June to 31 August 2021. At the same time, excellent tourist results were achieved, more than 10.5 million tourist arrivals were recorded and despite the movements of a large number of tourists and locals, we managed to maintain a peaceful and stable epidemiological situation in the country. Moreover, we have secured the status of the safest destination in the Mediterranean. A slight deterioration of the epidemiological situation was reported only at the end of August. All the measures adopted during this period were aimed at protecting the health of citizens and creating conditions for maintaining economic activity under the conditions of the global epidemic and pandemic. The healthcare system adjusted its activity to a reduced number of patients and hospitalized by Covid-19 during that period and, personally, increased the attention and provision of healthcare to other patients. In the reporting period, we have directed measures to maintain stable conditions for growth and economic performance and to continue carrying out vaccination-related activities, identification, surveillance, case monitoring and treatment of Covid-19 patients with a more severe clinical image. The main objective of the government's measures and all our activities was to protect the lives and health of our citizens. We continued intensive testing and through a network of epidemiological teams to monitor and monitor infected persons and their contacts. In the reporting period, compared to the rest of the EU countries, Croatia was mostly in the middle of a situation in the middle of confirmed cases of 100,000 inhabitants, which is in favour of a stable epidemiological situation. The epidemiological situation at daily level has been continuously monitored and considered and 40 decisions have been made on the epidemiological situation that have been initiated or abolished, or epidemiological measures have been mitigated. The principle of proportionality has been respected in order to limit the functioning of the economy and other segments of social and private life to the least possible extent, in particular taking into account that the Republic of Croatia is recognised as an epidemiologically secure country. A more favourable epidemiological situation during the summer period resulted in a reduction in the number of hospitalized Covid-19 patients and the hospital institutions gradually reduced their capacity for Covid-19 patients and aligned them with the needs of their other patients and their maximum availability within the framework of existing epidemiological measures. In these circumstances, KBC Dubrava, who has provided only Covid-19 patients with regular activity in the past period, and in addition to the stationary section and the polyclinic, has opened an emergency reception since 5 August 2021. In this way we have provided available healthcare for all patients in the eastern part of Zagreb, i.e. the entire gravity area. Epidemiological circumstances allowed partially modified treatment schedules for Covid-19 patients in the hospitals of the city of Zagreb at the beginning of autumn, but also the retention of leading roles in the treatment of patients infected with Covid-19 who have a clinic for infectious diseases, Dr. Fran Mihaljevic, KBC Dubrava, Special Hospital for Pulmonary Diseases and KBC Zagreb. In the case of a larger number of severe patients, treatment facilities are also provided in the KBC Sisters of the Mercy. At the beginning of the 4th wave of the epidemic, the highest number of Covid-19 patients in hospitals along the Adriatic coast was recorded. KBC Split as the largest hospital facility in Dalmatia, a front in the number of hospitalized and constantly increasing the number of beds for Covid-19 patients. It is a similar situation in hospitals in Pula, Rijeka, Zadar, Sibenik and Dubrovnik. It is most important to note that at all times we have enough capacity to care for all patients. The Ministry of Health continuously followed the functioning of the hospital system and gave instructions on how to organise hospital health care in the Covid-19 epidemics and continued to place an emphasis on ensuring available, quality and comprehensive healthcare for all of our patients. Accordingly, decisions were taken to return to their home institutions for healthcare professionals from hospitals in which they temporarily provided health care to Covid-19 positive patients. In order to ensure that vaccines against Covid-19 are available as much as possible on the basis of the shown interest of the Croatian pharmaceutical chamber in the vaccination process, as well as the issue of Covid vaccination certificates during September, pharmacies are included throughout Croatia. The activities of family medicine doctors in the participation and organisation and conduct of vaccinations in their offices and organised isolated locations have also been strengthened. They were particularly involved in the vaccination of fixed and more difficult mobile persons as part of their home visits. As in the previous period, the Civil Protection Centre and the Ministry of Health regularly reported on the epidemiological situation, the movement of the infection and the measures taken by the Croatian public. The headquarters press conferences are held once a week on Fridays. All information is constantly available on the government's website, as well as on the health ministry's website and HZZ's website. The source of official data on the number of cases filed in the Republic of Croatia is a platform for the central registration established in HZZ and HZZ. Thanks to intensive media monitoring of the state of the epidemic of reporting on the activities undertaken, Croatian citizens are fully and timelyly informed. The daily transmission of relevant data on the epidemiological situation to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Foreign and European Affairs, which then forwards the information to the Croatian embassies and to the Ministry of Tourism and Sports for the purposes of communication to foreign partners, has been established. A total of 18,622 cases of infection have been reported in Croatia, and a measure of isolation has been given to these persons and self-insulation measures to their contacts. Passengers from the countries covered by the list of HZZ countries subject to specific epidemiological measures were required to present a negative PCR test not exceeding 48 hours during the previous reporting period and to be subject to the necessary mandatory self-insulation measures for 14 days. The duration of self-insulation could be shortened if the person at the earliest 7 days of self-insulation carried out PCR testing on his cost and the test results were negative. The list of those countries was changed depending on the epidemiological situation. Since the beginning of June 2021, 249 institutions and checkpoints have been opened, mostly on the banks of the coast for the implementation of rapid antigen testing and the issue of EU digital Covid certificates. This facilitated mobility for travellers from various countries who visited the Republic of Croatia for tourist reasons. Furthermore, vaccination of the working-active population and those of younger age as well as those who are employed in priority activities such as education, science, police, military, civil protection and employees in activities relevant to the economy continued. The number of vaccine punctures as well as the method of administration of vaccination is adapted to the characteristics of individual counties. Nearly a million-and-a-half doses of vaccines were spent in the reporting period, with nearly 3.3 million doses spent with 31.8. By 31 August 42.64% of the total population and 51.22% of the adult population were vaccinated at least once a dose of the vaccine. The largest coverage of vaccines was reached in the City of Zagreb and in the Primorje-Gorski County. At 65 years of age and above, nearly 600,000 people were vaccinated or about 70% with a single dose or 66% with 2 doses. From the beginning of the pandemic to the end of the observed reporting period for testing of Covid-19 disease and the treatment of patients with compulsory health insurance paid a total of 2 billion and 133 million kuna. For the purpose of stock stocks, 23.8 million kuna was spent in the reporting period, totalling the purchase of goods and services during 2020 and in the first 5 months of this year, amounting to more than 619 million kuna. The Ministry of Tourism and Sports has provided €20 million to obtain more than a million rapid antigen tests so that tourists can be tested before returning to the country of origin so that it is not an obstacle to their arrival in our beautiful country. Dear MPs and MPs are all the more detailed information and indicators contained in the report you received. A few days ago, there were some public issues and some questions from opposition parties, so I want to answer some of them on this occasion, and I will be at your disposal later. With regard to the reduction in the number in the doctor’s examination, the fact is that less contact with family doctors is only 1.9%, later I will explain more relevant details regarding this problem because it is not possible to remove something from the context and interpret it, the whole clinical picture should be considered when providing healthcare. The number of phone, online, e-mail contacts has also been increased because the epidemiological situation has suggested that as much consultation as possible be done indirectly, which is not only a Croatian specific person, but is happening worldwide. What should be particularly stressed is that preventive activities and checks are especially for cancers to take place to the greatest extent possible under the circumstances. Furthermore, the quantities of the ordered vaccine mentioned in the opposition relate not only to this vaccine but also to 2022 and 2023, so for the next 2 years and are based exclusively on expert considerations within the framework of the European Commission's joint procurement. It's very simple. Enough vaccines have been provided for all Croatian citizens who wish or need to be vaccinated based on expert assessments, as I said to HZZ. When it comes to vaccination and mortality, it needs to be explained mainly to the Croatian public. And I've done it a few times so far, and I'll do it again later. I'm just going to say at this point that as a world population, we're lucky that the vaccine that was designed for the Wuhan layer of this virus is actually affecting new variants. The situation could also have been reversed, that the mutation of this virus causes the vaccine to have no effect on this new virus at all. Therefore, as a world population, we must be grateful to science and expertise for producing a vaccine that works in 75 to 80% of cases. And that's the only and great truth. So our citizens know because it has been repeated several times that this vaccine is not like any other vaccine in the world that protects 100% of any disease, protects within the range I've just told you. Therefore, there should be expectations in this context. It's two about public procurement. It is implemented exclusively in accordance with the law, and all information is available to you in the contract register. In order to make optimal use of the resources available as one of the health reform measures, public procurement of funds and equipment, especially expensive ones, we unite for all users in the public health system. I can conclude that during this reporting period we have also brought solutions and taken measures and activities to ensure maximum health protection for all people of the Republic of Croatia and to enable effective treatment for the sick. We had a successful tourist season and provided safety for all guests who stayed during the summer in our homeland. That's what the tourists recognized. We created preconditions for economic activity in all areas, allowed free vaccination against Covid-19 every Croatian citizen and paved the way for an economic and health security autumn. Regardless of all the critical remarks that have come and come from the political opposition, I would like to inform all of you in the assembly from the opponents of vaccination and other stakeholders, but also to all Croatian citizens once again that the health, health system and health policy on which we need to achieve the highest level of consent, not only among political parties and factors but also a general social consensus, as this is the only way we can get into the necessary reforms, coordination and needs of Croatian patients and employees in the Croatian health system with available financial and other potentials. That's what we're working on, and we need all your support to implement it. Therefore, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I propose the adoption of this report. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62871	Thank you, Minister. Before we move on to replicas, we have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure, the first colleague is Selak Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62872	Art. 238, I am grateful to Minister Berosch for having respected the earlier remarks made by MOST.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62873	I'm sorry, what, what from art. 238?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62874	Disdaining parliamentary deputies, you know the article. So, what's the deal? By silenced the key information here, which refers to 31% of fewer patients in the e-order system, before that 50% relativeises the greatest danger in which Croatian citizens are currently, which is that due to lack of review, more than cancer and other diseases die, so I don't think it's a joke.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62875	My colleagues Rasudiæ, colleagues Selak Rasudiæ, you get a warning, you know it yourself, and please do not do it. Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62876	Thank you very much. The minister has injured the officer. 238th where she says it was a tourist season. The only thing they had in mind...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62877	And what, he hurt, what hurt his colleague Bull?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62878	Replica that is the tourist season i.e. Injury of the Rules of Procedure that the tourist season was a success, please give me back time.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62879	No, but look, no, what, what, what, what hurt the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62880	The only one in Sinj is you, the only one in Sinj... Let me say it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62881	So tell me, what?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62882	The breach of the Rules of Procedure because the minister claims that the tourist season was successful.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62883	But it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62884	It is, because it offends the healthy logic of the citizens of Sinj where he banned all the programs, where he sent people to Livno to go behind half the night. where the procession of the Wonder Lady of Sinjski is forbidden [[Intruder: Thank you, colleague Bulj]] while on his Hvar... [[Intruder: colleague Bulj, thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62885	Buddy Bull, time's up, you're getting... No, I let you talk for 15 seconds. ... [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] You win, you get a warning... [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] You're getting a warning from a colleague named Bulj. ... [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] Because you've spoken 15 seconds longer than you predicted in time. ... [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] I had a great time, I had a really good time on Alca, and I'll be there every year. ... [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] Well done. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] Here you go, buddy. Comrade Karlic, come in. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62886	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I'd like to warn you of a minor violation of the Rules of Procedure, sir. In 235, it's about replicas. So here at the beginning of this session, more of us here on the right, so we're amongst the first, I dare say that I picked up a tile among the first, I'm only 28th in line, and most of us are actually on this side, maybe we better schedule these colleagues who are working on it because I see that everything on the left is listed first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62887	Just, just a minute. Just wait, colleagues and colleagues, what, why are you protesting now? I've hired my colleagues to write down those who've replicated. I didn't see what order they were listing, but the fact is that at the same time, at least 30 tiles were raised. So... Just a little, no, come on, colleague Selak Rasudiæ you are now getting, colleague Selak Rasudiæ second warning because you are yelling from the scene, I ask you to stop doing this. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] So, for the second time in a situation like this, I'm going to ask my colleagues to really cycle even with the style of one opposition by ruling to schedule it and I think it's fair. So I don't see what's at stake here. But let's go now, let's go to this replica. The first one is a colleague of Zekanovic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62888	Dear Minister Beroš, I am interested in answering one simple question, is it your goal, or is it the government of the Republic of Croatia to split as many citizens as possible or to stop this pandemic? Why don't you do antigen tests for those who have been vaccinated and those who haven't been vaccinated, and they're over the disease, and even those who may have had asymptomatic Covid-19 disease? So we often have cases that those who are vaccinated do not have enough antibodies or are not protected. On the other hand, we have those who are over, and they are protected because they have enough antibodies, and you gave them a deadline from the first half of the year, now a year to earn their covid certificate. The question is simple, do you want to distribute the vaccines exclusively or do we all want to stop this pandemic together?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62889	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62890	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, Mr. Parliamentarian. The profession has defined clearly what is important, and this is to achieve vaccination and high fissure so that we can prevent the spread of the infection, therefore these are not two separate things. The only way to stop the infection from spreading is by vaccination at the moment. Furthermore, part of your question about the role of antigen tests is justified because the waist knows at this point that vaccines can also get sick, that vaccines can also transmit the virus, however in a very small percentage. Therefore, not the Croatian profession, I repeat not the Croatian profession, but the entire world profession took the guidelines when it comes to who needs to be tested, who needs to be excluded from the need for testing and how much individual immunological protection is worth after getting over the vaccination or some of the other elements. So, according to world science, our goal is common to prevent the spread of this disease. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62891	Comrade Baradic, please. Here's my colleague, Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62892	Article 238, so Mr. Beros didn't tell the truth here. I didn't say anything against vaccination. And I'm also like you to stop this pandemic, but the question is simple, do you want to just vaccinate people or stop the panedemia? If we were to test the entire population or the largest part of the population on antibodies, we'd have relevant results because some of the people you consider to be that they have antibodies protected have no opposite. [[The Intruder President: Thank you, dear colleague Zekanovic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62893	Comrade Zekanovic, you have injured the Rules of Procedure here there is no violation of the Rules of Procedure and you are being warned. But you lift my thumb up and you're aware of that, I mean we're making a circus out of the rules that we brought together. I mean, hold on, you have the right to replicate, you have the right to replicate three times, you can speak for the club, you can speak for yourself, you can speak for yourself, you can speak for the final, so let's maintain such order and work for everyone to be equal. Comrade Baradic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62894	I thank the president of HS. Honorable ministers with a co-worker. Here is mentioned in the media that the Republic of Croatia has acquired too many vaccines, we know that there were no restrictions on citizens or that a vaccine could be selected to be vaccinated. Comrade Bulj, please. Please comment on this and is this in line with other practices in the EU?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62895	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62896	Thank you very much. Dear Madam Parliamentarian. Well, of course, our practice of ordering vaccines does not differ from the usual practice in the EU. We are fortunately part of the EU we participate in joint procurement and the EU has done something unprecedented so far, which is that it has set a certain so-called. the number of doses of vaccines per population of some of their countries. In this way, she tried to make a fair redistribution of the necessary doses of the vaccine. As I've already said, this 18 million refers to a three-year period in '21. It was ordered 6 million 813 grand in '22. So much, and in '23. Four million and 106 grand. In accordance with the orders of other countries taking into account several strategic elements, which is that a particular vaccine does not have to if it is mainly in the production process to be good, so we must ensure that the availability and wide range of vaccines are available to our citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62897	Thank you. My colleague Selak Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62898	Two very specific questions, first of all, are there among the hospitalized and dead by the covids of the people who overcame the covid, and why are they not included in the statistical official analysis when we know that there are at least 400,000 in Croatia? And the second question, given the current HDZ ruling against corruption that we must not ignore, when will you finally return the public procurement procedure for all medical equipment and anything concerning the covid of the crisis, which has been suspended for some time now that the market has stabilised without sufficient arguments? So, I'm sorry, but we need serious control mechanisms for the HDZ government, and so it's a very specific question, when are you going to return to this with regard to health corruption associated with covid, which is the global problem of public procurement for anything regarding covid?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62899	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62900	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliamentarians. Since the end of August, HZZ has registered amongst the hospitalized, among those who are on the respirator, unfortunately all those who have been vaccinated have died. Based on their expert analysis, they have estimated that this is necessary to detect, there is absolutely among the hospitalized and among the people on the respirator and among the unfortunately deceased and those who are over the disease. It's about an immune response to this disease that's very individual and very different. You know that there are certain conditions, mostly immunocompromising diseases that reduce our defence mechanism towards that virus and all previous conditions, including overcoming, are not adequate for anyone to survive. Thus, the profession takes care of what is not necessary. And when it comes to public procurement, we're really very transparent, you have the same register if something is not clearly freely requested. There's no problem, it's all in accordance with the Law on Public Procurement and Sublaws. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62901	Thank you very much. A fellow minister, please hold for a minute. Comrade Miletić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62902	The Honorable President of HS, the Honorable Minister. I would like to ask a question here for the sake of the Croatian public about a particular one, perhaps someone could tell the new robbery of the people, ministers in the last year and a half in Croatia only for PCR tests to pay more than 2 billion kuna. Croatia's public over 2 billion kunas from the budget, making citizens out of their own pocket. That we are, for example. Instead of PCR tests, we would save almost 95% of that amount and now our country would have about 2 billion kunas with which we could solve a large number of problems in the state, and we have them, we have plenty. Fast antigen tests cost between 5 and 18 kuna, today the ministers came out, this morning the BBC published a large one study that says they are effective and they are good for use. So we continue to pay the most expensive PCR tests, from us only Luxembourg pays more expensive.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62903	Thank you, fellow Miletic. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62904	Thank you very much for that question. Your Honor, Mr. Parliamentary Representative, you said that only Luxembourg is doing something different from us, and I don't have that information, and neither does the profession. PCR tests have been and have been in this situation a golden standard for detection, especially those where there is suspected disease and possibly a more serious course of disease. Fast antigen tests have a role to play, as you can see, we also use them when entering the health system. However, the waist clearly prescribed when a PCR test must be used, and when sufficient is a less valuable rapid antigen test, there is no dilemma. I would like except perhaps in financial terms because Luxembourg and Croatia by population are incomparable to compare and tell us where it is used significantly differently in the PCR test strategy, or rapid antigen tests. So I'm doing what we think right now is best for Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62905	Thank you. Comrade Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62906	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, the fact is that as a nation we are not split enough, there is a slightly better situation in health care, especially among doctors, but all together is still insufficient since we are the first line to fight the pandemic. In 15.7.2021, you sent a letter to all health institutions to organise education on the need to highlight the importance and well-being of vaccination. By 1:11 p.m., you should have received information as far as I know, so I guess you'll know how to answer. Have all the health institutions been trained? How many educations were there in total? How average were medical institutions? Who was conducting the education? How many unvaccinated workers have gone to education and how many have been vaccinated afterwards, so what is the effect of these educations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62907	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62908	Thank you. Your Honor, ma'am. Parliamentarians thank you for the fact that you recognized our efforts to raise awareness through education of the need for vaccination, mainly in the health system. And not only did we send that district to health care institutions, but we did the same, and we repeated that in those cases where workers were not present because of the year or anything else to repeat education for those who did not participate primarily. It is not possible to organise education only for non-vaccination and it is a violation of GDPR, it is discrimination of people and we do not want to and will not do it. However, I gave further guidance to all health care directors to work on the need for vaccination in the health system. As we could hear on several occasions, it is not vital that health professionals, so people who treat others do not want to participate in the best way out of this crisis or vaccination, and therefore we were forced to introduce additional security measures to protect the health system. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62909	Minister, thank you, I'm asking you to hold on for a minute, everyone has to stick to the minutes, so do you. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62910	Thank you very much. Minister, you're boasting about the tourist season that there were 13 billion people, and at the same time you were the only one who put the Stigm on the city of Sinj, you were literally according to your measures, by your measures there would be, laughing colleagues, by his measures, Minister Beroša Alkar would race apart from the horse, literally Sinj banned all the concerts, all the events, were, you sent us letters that couldn't be Mark Perkovic Thompson's concert. He was, he was. That there couldn't be cold beer and Mile Kekin, he was. We gave all the concerts, we didn't listen to you. For what? Because you were incorrect. At the same time as Marko Perkovic Thompson sang in Sinj, while you called the police forces on Sinj, at the same time in Solin 5,000 people were without testing... Summer, are you embarrassed? [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] On your Hvar, 13 million people, who were angry were people on the beaches in Croatia, and you had Sinj put on the Stigma and thank you for your promotion of the town of Sinj. It was never again dawn.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62911	Comrade Bulj, thank you, thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62912	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Parliamentary Representative, it is absolutely amazing to me that someone responsible is publicly saying that it does not respect the civil protection headquarters measures aimed at protecting the health of Croatian citizens, it is absolutely amazing to me. I can't stop being surprised. So, these measures have been taken to protect the citizens of Sinj and it has been organised, i.e. the correct epidemiological context, as last year, adapted to a better epidemiological situation this year, so more participants are allowed, but the virus is still among us. Deny the existence of the virus, in group gatherings do not use protection and all other prescribed measures that protect us, the health of Croatian citizens, I find it extremely bad. As Minister of Health, I can only condemn it, nothing else to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62913	Here's my colleague Bulj, the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62914	Thank you very much. He's been injured. 238. Is he insulting an attorney? The minister says I deny the virus, he denied the minister's virus because he had unequal rules. There wasn't a virus in Solin, there wasn't a virus on Zrć, there wasn't a virus on your Hvar, there wasn't a virus in Livn, there wasn't a virus where every night the young were leaving when there were 100,000 people in Sinj, the whole of Sinj, was it maybe the virus? You denied the virus when you hugged Peljesca after half the night.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62915	I wasn't on Peljesca.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62916	He was your prime minister and everyone was, was he a virus then? It wasn't a virus at the time, it was just a virus in Sinj, you're the only Miro Bulj virus.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62917	A colleague, a colleague, a minister, please. You get a colleague Bulj, you get a second warning, this has nothing to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure. So I warn you, one more and you will lose your right to participate in this debate. Now it's time for colleague Vesna Vucilović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62918	Thank you very much. Dear Minister Beros, I don't know if you're aware of how part of our medical facility has turned into bunkers? That's what KBC Osijek sees in front of you, which reaches 200 and even 300 meters every morning. Patients, patients, mothers with sick children stand in the cold, in the wind, in the rain, to get into the hospital. And apparently, that kind of condition that's been going on for months doesn't bother the principal, so I'm interested when the principal and the board of directors are unable to arrange a hospital entrance worthy of a man that you think you as the minister take on this matter? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62919	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62920	Thank you, ma'am. Parliamentarians. An extremely important question. .../incomprehensible/... the directions of the Ministry of Health to all health institutions are very clear. However, on the other hand, we live at the time of the epidemic and have a certain epidemiological context that is not specific to Croatia. Look at any hospital in Europe, no one can get in without proving their health care. The same is true in Croatia. For patients, no final decisions or security measures have changed, so I'm surprised why you're making them wait. If that's the case, I'm criticizing it and I'm going to ask the director of a health care institution who's in charge of organising work and providing health care to correct it. And the employees had the opportunity to vaccinate, or if they got over it, they don't have to wait. I can come and do my noble work, provide health care. That doesn't include irresponsible behavior, when possible, they don't even know, so unconsciously, but unconsciously, if we carry the virus, pass it on to the patient. That you or one of your patients Would you like to get the virus in the hospital? [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62921	Thank you. Comrade Sablar-Dračevac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62922	Thank you, Vice President. Minister, I will ask the question asked by Dora Koretic in the morning list five days ago. Does it last immunity after Covida-19 180 or 365 days and how is it possible that this immunity is changing, depending on whether we visit a hospital or a concert? So on the Health Committee, your secretary as well as some members of the Health Committee claim that this has now been changed and even. It means that when we go to a concert, it's also worth 365 days. Unfortunately, I didn't find it verified anywhere in the data, and it's not in line with this article. Please answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62923	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62924	Thank you very much for that question, it is strictly professional, so it does not determine the Minister of Health or the Government how long immunity lasts after a disease is over. That determines the profession. You probably, which is legitimate, that you don't think that I'm criticizing you, you don't know what the EU Commission regulation has defined certain standards, and what we're doing by trying to adapt to the local situation is to allow, let's say, those who get over the disease after or who are not proven by PCR testing but by a simple rapid antigen test, or if there are likely cases that also, have a certificate that allows them to enter the hospital, that somewhere, some other health services are done to them.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62925	Here's a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62926	I'm gonna abuse her. So, Minister, that's not what I asked. With 365 days.../ [[No, you won't, you won't abuse her, you can't do that.../]] Speaker disabled./...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62927	Hold on, buddy. Stop, stop, colleagues, colleagues Sablar-Dračevac, stop. Stop. You're getting a first warning. Now you get a second warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62930	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. The average antivaxer looks like this, he's opposed to the Covida-19 vaccine because he doesn't know what's in there, and at the same time he believes he'll be helped with his parasite cure. There are MPs and those in this House who will never be vaccinated in any way and should respect it, but there are also those who in principle support vaccination, but with their political statements, enter a certain confusion in a number of people who may still hesitate whether to vaccinate or not. Today, the search for the defendant on duty, the responsibility of the prime minister, has passed on to you by Mr. Grbin, and he is seeking responsibility, and you are obviously to blame for those who have died. I don't think they're good messages, and I'd like today's debate to be constructive and to the benefit of our citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62931	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62932	Thank you very much, Mr. MP. Yeah, well, there's been some change of thesis, so we stress that vaccination is not good even though the profession and science have produced a great thing, well, in the 21st century, and that's absolutely unquestionable. On the other hand, the effects of some drugs that are absolutely not prescribed for antiviral therapy are mentioned, something that is completely, completely worrying for us experts. And anyway, I'd look back on something else. So, we need to be aware of our roles, we need to be aware that all of our steps come forward, no matter what they have, of course, a legitimate opposition strategy, to listen to our citizens and just listening to this morning, Mr. Peja Grbina, I told myself, so this in no way contributes to the unification of our views and our fight against this disease. We are looking for the culprit, I will not say who he is, but we are trying to respond to this threat as well as to the health and lives of Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62933	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Bulj, here you go. Oh, my God, Mr. Grmoya, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62934	I see the HDZ colleagues were upset as soon as I took the fall for the Rules of Procedure. I see, I see you're not pleased. So, injury art. 238. You're the minister, Disdaining the MPs. [[Intruder: Which part, say, please, what?]] So you're the minister and you're responsible, just like at the beginning of this pandemic you were a superhero without any of your special merits. So it's yours, and it's your role to question everything you do, [[Intruder: Thank you, fellow Grumoja.]] You are in power, and we are opposition. [[Agreement: A fellow Grmo.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62935	Thank you very much, you're getting a warning, this has nothing to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and I call upon everyone once again not to abuse that institution's breach of the Rules of Procedure. Let's move on now. Comrade Pavlich, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62936	Dear Ministers, here, you can once again, for the sake of the general public, repeat exactly how much RH has so far allocated funds for vaccines of various producers, which are the exact amount of money, or will be thrown into the wind because certain vaccines will run out of time because of the fissure that is, and the vaccination is what it is because part of people simply doesn't trust the political decisions of the Civil Protection Staff. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62937	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62938	Thank you very much for asking, Mr. MP. At this point, the Republic of Croatia has paid for those vaccines that have arrived, came to the Republic of Croatia, and those that have been ordered at this time are 368.481,604 kunas, so that's what the Republic of Croatia has paid at this point. And the second question concerns forgiveness?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62939	How much of this is going to go to waste because the deadline's going to be up?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62940	Thank you very much. So, my express instructions to HZJZ is that they take care of the expiry date, I will later if someone asks you exactly and tells you exactly how many vaccines and what kind of vaccines there are in stock when they come out and since Croatia has joined the global initiative because no one is sure that we are not all sure we have ways and to use or donate those amounts of vaccines that are ahead of the expiry date. So far, not a single dose of vaccine has failed. and my assignment as minister is to allow it to continue to be so, but I'll tell you the data... [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62941	Thank you. Comrade Petyr, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62942	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister. The experience with current SARS viruses was that they were not even transmitted from animal to human, and we see that COvid-19 had a completely different formulation that it was transmitted from man to man and it certainly surprised the entire scientific and professional community that at some point tried to give an answer to help preserve the health of the population. I think that the Croatian healthcare system has been well reorganised in a short time and I must say that I am grateful to all healthcare professionals who have responded and provided adequate assistance in good time and with full responsibility. You said the vaccine had enough that the profession said that the vaccine was a response and vaccination in Croatia is not mandatory, so it is voluntary. In this regard, predispositions have been ensured for everyone to choose what they consider to be best for his health. You wrote in the report that you were doing possible assessments of how this crisis was done. It affects the social and economic functioning of the community, so I'd like to hear more about it. [[Intruder President: Thank you, fellow Petyr.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62943	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62944	Yes, I appreciate the question, but I'll repeat what you said. I thank our epidemiologists who have been working hard for over a year and a half since the start of the crisis, following the new world health and professional achievements. I thank further all healthcare professionals, but also all citizens who have recognized vaccinations that know and believe that the virus is around us and that it is circulating and that it can infect us and that it can be difficult to get sick and that we can unfortunately and die. They contributed to our results in the fight against this disease, and as a crown of the same is a successful tourist season with minimal spread of the disease. It came autumn because of the circumstances as we expected last year to increase the number in this 4th wave, but we don't know how it's going to go any further. One of you said yesterday we had over 2,000 new infected, it's worrying, yesterday we had 27 deceased and it's worrying, so please behave responsibly. and choose vaccination as the best way out of this crisis. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62945	Thank you. Now it's time for my colleague, Big Billic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62946	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, we've heard through replicas a lot of attitudes that are mostly critical and talk about the majority attitude on the implementation of measures. But what I want to ask you is about the outcome of covid confirmation i.e. Passports for persons who have reportedly been over covid but did not occur at the time when the PCR test itself showed positiveness were not tested at that time but were subsequently tested through an antigen test it is evident that they were actually over the disease. Namely, such persons who have been confirmed by this antigen test that they are over-sufficient covid cannot obtain a covid certificate. I have a concrete example where in the home co-worker's actually everyone in the house were sick she didn't really go to test herself, she had mild symptoms, but here she simply didn't want to expose herself and go to the test and so the other hosts could get confirmation she couldn't because she didn't have a very PCR positive test.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62947	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62948	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Madam Parliamentarians, you're on the right track, that's what I just said. The European Commission regulation makes it clear who can, and who cannot get the EU's digital covid certificate, it was primarily designed to facilitate cross-border traffic, however it has started to be used wider. Croatia recognized this illogicality, Croatia wrote to the Europeans to change these circumstances, Croatia admitted that when it comes to the covid certificates for the health system, it recognised the possibility of what I was saying earlier, probably the case. Therefore, the fact that someone does not have to be either PCR or antigenally tested but because of a clinical picture or direct contact with the patient is considered a likely case and is allowed into the health system. Therefore, you are right when we do not need to be so strict, but the European Commission is that only the PCR is a golden standard in obtaining a covid certificate. We are also thinking about this and we have informed the European Commission that even rapid antigen tests can serve the same I'd just like to tell you, and I don't have time for you to say wrong. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Not antigenic but serological testing [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] But we can get... [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62949	Thank you. My colleague, Juričev Martinchev, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62950	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Minister. So the effects of implementing measures in June, July and August are best stated by the fact that we were declared the safest tourist destination in the Mediterranean that our tourist season was better than expected, but what worries us is that among the newly ill, hospitalized, and unfortunately the deceased also has the number of vaccinated and that this number unfortunately grows. We know that the vaccine is not 100% safe, we know that there is a slight difference in safety and efficacy between vaccines, but you want to tell us why it is, why is this number growing and how much the proportion of vaccines that are listed?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62951	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62952	Thank you very much. I'll try to answer, but five minutes wouldn't be enough, let alone a minute. The story is very complex, which is the fact that this vaccine is not designed for this valid variant of so-called. delta variant, has certain efficacy, but not absolute. It is fortunate to have so much because it saves both lives and health and protects us from more difficult forms and death. Today, we split exactly with at least one dose of 55.0% of the population, the total vaccination was approximately 51.64%. These people have a chance, if they get sick, not to get sick hard, not to end up in a hospital, not to end up on a respirator, not to end up dead. We need to look into the truth. In the past reporting period from 6th to 12th of this month, 98 of our fellow citizens died, 72 were not vaccinations. Three died under 50 years that weren't vaccinated. If they were vaccinated, these people would probably have milder forms of disease, That's what needs to be mentioned. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62953	Comrade Murganic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62954	I would like to thank the Honorable President of HS, the Honorable Minister. It is noted that there is no analysis in this Report, i.e. data on the effects that have caused the introduction of certain measures related to the health system, but certainly those which have been targeted as support to the economy. One of the first measures was support aimed at preserving jobs, at preserving the economy, at reducing the unemployment rate, and financially, it weighs more than 11 billion. More than 113,000 employers and about 700,000 workers were included. The effects are increasing the number of insurance workers, employees, increasing employment, and we now have 50,000 more jobs What other arguments need to be taken into account? [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62955	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62956	Thank you, ma'am. Parliamentarians. So look, enough to look at and compare Croatia with, I will not tell the world but European countries. With the countries whose union we are in, look at our measures, did we have a curfew? Did we have more significant restrictions, except in the first lockdown while we were still learning this disease. Did we carefully balance the same? Did we enable economic activity? Did we finally make the tourist season possible? All that stuff didn't fall out of the sky. The results of our epidemiologists' work, our professions, and I thank them as Minister of Hearts. But I'll also say that citizens are responsible for it. These 55% who have recognized vaccination are almost safe from the severe forms of this disease. I pray and appeal to everyone else to realize that vaccination is the best way to protect ourselves. There's no question about that. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62957	Thank you very much. My colleagues, Mr. Grba-Bujević, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62958	Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. It is often heard that people do not vaccinate because they do not vaccinate doctors and nurses. The doctor was vaccinated over 90% and with 2 doses and nurses over 73%. If in the Republic of Croatia people were to listen to these same healthcare professionals and to be vaccinated in the number in which healthcare workers were vaccinated, then Croatia would be among the countries that were most vacated and this introduction of Covid certificate for entry into the hospital welcomed the whole profession and cannot congratulate on that decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62959	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62960	Thank you, ma'am. Parliamentarians. Yes, the primary goal of this government and us at the Ministry was to raise safety in health institutions, to prevent the spread of the virus. Hospitals must be the site of treatment for a safe zone. I thank all health care professionals and non-healthy workers working in hospitals who have recognised the well-being of this civilization's progress. I don't understand these others, but it was because of them that we had to lift that antigen wall around every hospital and keep patients from unconscious, unintentional, but accidentally entering the virus. We're not entirely sure anyway. When it comes to overcoming, there are relatively good circumstances, when it comes to vaccination, too. The weakest link in the chain is antigen testing because someone today is testing, but for a day and a half can be positive, but there's no absolute security, but at some point we've done the maxill in these circumstances. We apply the measure that is effective, we pay it to ensure the safety of the health system.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62961	Thank you. Comrade Ivanovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62962	Thank you very much, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, Your Honor. Since the start of the delivery of the vaccine, Croatia has advocated the donation of the vaccine, which I think is also a civilization standard, yet we are a member of the EU. How long has Croatia donated vaccines to other countries so far, and how much longer are we planning to donate the vaccines we hear from the figures?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62963	Thank you very much, Mr. MP. As Government we are very often exposed and these issues, however, the procedure for granting donations is very clear. It's the government's decision-making procedure that passes the inter-resorial prior alignment, analysis and political and strategic that we want, we can and we want to donate. Of course, we are not alone in this, but all of the changes and all of our wishes we must communicate with... So... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The EU committee shall monitor the vaccination process. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'll do it one more time, nobody's sure until we're all safe. Croatia has joined the global effort of several initiatives and Covax and the EU Commission's initiative to donate less developed countries to vaccines. That's humane, that's welcome. If you ask me about the numbers, I'll tell you that at this point the donations have been realised for BiH 170 thousand, for Montenegro 100 thousand, for Albania 30 thousand, for Northern Macedonia 30 thousand, for Kosovo 10 thousand, for Bhutan 10 thousand, for Vietnam 60 thousand, for realisation Kyrgyzstan with 20 grand and more in total, another 310 thousand vaccines. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62964	Thank you. Comrade Dretar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62965	Thank you very much, President-in-Office, Mr. Secretary-in-Office, two questions. This is how, for starters, the analysis of the respected Professor Oreshkovic shows that only three major tumours will soon die about 3,000 people. Question one, will the measures that make it difficult for us to access treatment ultimately cost the lives of more people than the virus will kill them? The second question, knowledge shows us, is that at present the greatest risk of getting the virus into the hospital has just been vaccinated healthcare professionals who do not need to be tested. I'll mention one more time. Verica Jakush Mayarec, who is away from the workplace of the Croatian Veterans Zabok hospital on October 4th because she refused testing and does not own a covid certificate, can be called ausways freely. The question is, what are we going to do if Mrs. C. Veronica's out of a job?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62966	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62967	Thank you very much. Two very important questions per minute I can't answer you, but come back later, I'll be happy to explain everything. For one thing, the Ministry of Health on five occasions sent instructions to health institutions to ensure adequate health care for cancer patients. When it comes to the most valuable part of prevention programs for early breast cancer detection, women’s most common cancer tumours, colorectal cancer, so in men, only at the time of lockdown were certain difficulties, all of this was later compensated. Therefore, we are aware of the fact that general health care is a little less available, but not because of some fiction but thanks to measures that enable people to be safe when they come. And to this lady's question, I'm very sorry. However, she has a chance to test herself free of charge. Testing isn't something that's invasive, which brings some side, chemicals, bodies into our system. Testing is just proof of whether someone's carrying the virus or not. I don't know, and I don't understand the reason why if the lady is allowed free testing twice a week to continue. He doesn't want to work at the hospital providing safe conditions for our patients. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62968	My fellow minister, I beg you, we have to stick to it for one minute, the traffic light is there and how I hold it. I have to go to the counsel, too, so I have to do the same to you. [[Intruder Beroš: Apology]] I know you need to tell everyone, but please do it in one minute. Comrade Vrkljan, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62969	Thank you. I'd like to show myself on the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62970	Yeah, it's a breach of the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62971	On the breach of the Rules of Procedure, 238. Comrade Dretar, you have called for a certain Mr. Stip Oreshković and his research, and it is known that this gentleman 10 years ago participated in a major affair where Croatian health care was literally abandoned by the World Bank and the World Health Organization because his project was characterised as a project of extremely corrupt and non-transparent spending of money and this is a violation of the Rules of Procedure because they disinform...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62972	Comrade Vrkljan, please sit down, get a warning, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62973	Why, well, we're misinformed by parliamentary agents.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62974	Please don't do anything anyone who follows HS knows that it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, that this is some kind of replica and you have no right to do that, you get a warning, please sit down. In your own you have a replica now, I see in turn you could have said it very quickly. Now it's my colleague Krstulović Opera's turn, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62975	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, there's one thing I need to conclude. Too often it is left out the fact that the Republic of Croatia was the first EU country to introduce digital eu covid passes. A million and 700 thousand digital eu covid certificates were issued in Croatia. Because of all this, as well as due to the praise of the valuable action of cleavage of tourist workers on the Adriatic coast at the beginning of this season, Croatia has definitely become the champion of tourism security in the Mediterranean, which has proved through a number of visits that we have had this year, which has strengthened and actually saved Croatian tourism. My question is directly related to eu covid digital certificates. Which is why health institutions and social care institutions Not only do they respect the covid of certificates, but they respect other certificates? [[/Intruder: Thank you, please hold.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62976	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62977	I understand the question, thank you, Mr. Parliamentary Representative. So, first of all, I would say that I am proud to be part of the headquarters that was already at a time when Europe was discussing the need to implement certain certificates that would prove our immune and health status began to think about it and thanking Vice President Bozinović that he was able to produce the fact that we were among the first, if not the first in Europe to implement covid certificates. I witness daily that colleagues from health professions traveling across Europe by convention and who continue to organise themselves testify that showing their cell phone is better and easier and easier than other colleagues because we have actually implemented it in an adequate way. Also when it comes to tourism security Safe stays in Croatia, I think it speaks enough. We really wanted to be sent from the beginning, and that's what we started to talk about in 3-4 months' time to people who want to come to Croatia as tourists you'll be safe. We've done everything under the circumstances to make it happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62978	Comrade Mlinarić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62979	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, you can see that the thin line from hero Willie to Willy is leaving to protest at Zrinjevac health workers. My question is, do you feel responsible from the beginning of this pandemic where the contradictory information to the public from your colleague is here from the coat of arms, Maja Grba Bujević, who was that the mask is not helping anything, so after a week the mask is all and the mask is all on your face and you wear it to the point that when you brought the first vaccine to Croatia that the guys with the boys kept it, and now it seems to me from the 55% split which is the worst in the EU you'll have to drive people to vaccination with specialists, do you feel personal responsibility because of this communication that was in the public that the other side of the professions that have different opinions than the total blockage and constantly hitting numbers about the dead, about the respirators and everything else?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62980	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62981	Well, look, I have nothing to say. The thesis has been repeated for months on which it has been answered and if it is the only thing you are interested in in this world pandemic, I am truly disappointed. And I'll tell you this, I'm not a hero, I've never been, nor will I be, I'm just a man who's been doing his job responsiblely for the benefit of Croatian citizens for the preservation of health care. That's the only difference. Furthermore, you are talking about some obstacles, so they were present at the level of the World Health Organization, at the level of the whole world, we have tried to correct them, we have followed this profession, we have introduced what is currently in America, in Europe, in Croatia, we are not lagging behind. I feel well-deserved, partly responsible for these results, you can't deny them. Look at the tourist season, look at our measures. Compare them with other countries.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62982	Comrade Vrkljan, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62983	Dear Mr. Minister, the health system is in big trouble, over now 16 billion kuna is long. Every month, the health system is in bigger trouble for 200 million kunas. At the same time, our largest KBC hospitals are able to achieve their plan with only 95-96%. So they don't make it through that plan that's being drawn up and planned with HZZO and the Ministry. I'm interested in testing our fellow citizens from day to day, and we're reading data that only 10% of them tested positively. I'm interested in such a difficult financial situation where health is looming in debt and problems, which is why you think only 10% of the positive ones have been tested and who has made the decision and the assessment that these 90% of the negative ones who got the negative results should be tested.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62984	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62985	Dear Mr. MP, when it comes to the financial situation, she's really complex. Only the direct consequences of this crisis will I read to you. So for testing a billion $78 million, for the treatment of billions of $128 million, for the sickening of 204 million, for the vaccine 365 million, for the drugs 123 million kuna, for the supply of goods, for the purchase of equipment and for the consumption of millions of kuna 620 million, over the total of not reading further 3 billion 698 million kuna. Extraordinary unplanned costs. But we deal with everything. This government has dealt with this financial problem. As you know, in the 4th month, we have stabilised the situation by the end of the year, we are introducing measures and planning those measures that will further streamline business in the health system. I ask the question why hasn't that been done in decades? It doesn't matter, it came now at the same time as the Covid crisis, but we can and we have to fight at the same time and I believe if we can respond to this global threat That we'll solve this problem too. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62986	Comrade Lenart, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62987	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers have been found scientifically to be able to transmit the virus as unvaccinated. Here's what the Morning Paper published today. He's passing on the Daily Telegraph, passing on some scientific research, if they're lying, I'm lying, too, but the fact is that. Therefore, those who enter the healthcare system and the welfare system must be tested only by those who are not vaccinated, although those who are vaccinated can significantly endanger patients in the healthcare system. Is it important that they just show their cell phone so they pass, and those other people who can't show their cell phone, they unfortunately don't pass. In my view, it would be logical, and according to what is written and publicly discussed, that all who enter the health system should be tested if those who are vaccinated can transmit the virus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62988	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62989	Look, of course if you're not a medical professional that these are difficult questions and it's not easy to answer, it's not easy to understand the context. So no one doubts that at this point the vaccines can transmit the virus, but not equally, to a much smaller extent. That's what the waist says. I don't know, I haven't read today's morning paper, but he's never been, not because of that, because of the morning press, but the daily press is not the source of experts to collect professionally and scientifically relevant information. So the vaccines can, in exceptional cases, transmit the virus. Why aren't they being tested? Because we have agreed on the level of security we want to achieve. It is optimal at this time in such a way as to test those who are not over, you did not mention them, so who are pardons, who are over they are not tested, those who are tested, and all who are So they're vaccinated, and everyone else has to be tested. [[Intruder: Vaccinated.]] It's what's maximum at this point what waist and science, of course we could test everything, but who in the world does who has so much money, no one. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62990	Comrade Brumnic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62991	Dear Minister, let's be honest.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62992	I've been honest all along.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62993	Yeah, yeah, you started this testing to de facto agree people to be maximum or push them to split because then they won't have to be tested. But I have another question that continues on that question that I asked you the last time, or when I pointed out a problem to the health system's failure a year ago, and I told you not to transfer responsibility to others. You.../incomprehensible... responsibility to others, you transfer yourself to other themes. It's my simple question. Is it true that over the past year, 100,000 operations were performed less than a year ago and that this year the mortality of 5,000 is higher than in recent years, which actually shows that the health system is not I did my job. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62994	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62995	Your Honor, Mr. MP, even if what you said were true, security has no alternative. Vaccination and testing allow safety in the health system. I assure you it wasn't us, that it wasn't our intention to force anyone. That's why we allowed free testing, but even if we did, we'd have a legitimate goal, which is to protect security. When it comes to health care, it is disturbed, only in Croatia no, in the whole world. However, if you are going to review in 2019 the insured persons used 3 million 736 health care, in 2020 Pademia 3 million 705, slightly less. In the case of checks in primary health care 47 million 670, 2020. 46 million 785, so something less, but 150 percent more communication on the phone, which is not an adequate replacement, but it is still a certain way... [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62996	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, my colleague Brumnic, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62997	The Honorable President-in-Office of the Assembly was injured in Article 238, the minister persistently...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62998	What in Article 238?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u62999	What?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63000	In Article 238, how did the Rules of Procedure get hurt?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63001	Lying.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63002	Lying?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63003	Lying.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63004	Lying isn't listed as a violation of your rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63005	Then insult the common sense of counsel [[Intruder Beroš: You insult him.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63006	You can't say that either.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63007	Specifies.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63008	It's not listed.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63009	Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63010	Disdaining yes, but I didn't hear any disrespect, though.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63011	If someone keeps answering what you haven't asked him, then that's disdainful.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63012	Please sit down. My colleague Brumnic would like you to sit down. So, the minister tried to answer even read the numbers, read the data, followed what you asked him... We can't argue now... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] My colleague Brumnić [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Please, Minister, please. [[Intruder Beroch: Of course I do.]] You get a warning because you did not ask for an adequate instrument to intervene with. It wasn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure, so you get a warning. Let's move on, buddy. Even if he didn't answer, it's his right, then the citizens judge whether he responded well or not, and they'll give him an assessment, and that's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. [[Intruder Beroš: I haven't been able to answer you.]] Here are your colleagues, Ursha Raukar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63013	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister. We are all familiar with the fact that Serbia is a new world hotspot with an enormous increase in the sick and the infected, and since it is not possible to beat itself with police sticks or push off rifles, my question is very specific, what are you doing and what is being done that this huge new hotspot does not simply spill over into Croatia? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63014	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63015	Thank you. A constructive question I must admit, but we will do the same thing we have done since the start of the pandemic, and during the summer, we have changed the list of countries towards which the way their citizens enter our country is changing. And today in the report I read about what this refers to, it means positive PCR, mandatory self-insulation and other elements. HZZ daily monitors the epidemiological situation in the world and responds as needed. When a person recognizes an increase in the incidence of this infection, he introduces additional measures towards that country. Therefore, you can be as sure as you will be in the future HZJZ to monitor the epidemiological situation and, if necessary, introduce additional measures concerning cross-border traffic with these countries.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63016	Comrade Matul, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63017	Thank you, Mr. President. The Honorable Minister Berosch. On several occasions, here you are now transferring the topic to the tourist season and boasting about the success of the season. A year before summer before the same, there were neither infected to that extent nor the dead then, tell me, do you know how many people were infected on this day last year, you probably know that or the dead?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63018	I don't know, of course, yeah...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63019	Four, a year ago today four. Do you know what day last year we came up with this number that you and the Prime Minister are disgusting and extricating? At 27 last year, do you know when? You don't know? At the beginning of 11, you're personally responsible for what people have lost confidence in the profession. It's your own responsibility. [[The incursion president: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63020	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63021	You know, I'm surprised your exposure isn't a quiz, and we're not here to ask clearly that no minister can remember when the number of people died, but I know what I need to know. I know all my working life as a neurosurgeon I've been testifying that people come with great hope to medical institutions for a cure for their illness, but I also know that the cure for this disease exists, which is vaccination. What the government and headquarters are saying is that vaccinations protect lives, and I said a hundred times they don't have to trust me, let the citizens believe in math, let them trust the statistics of the dead last week. Out of 97 or eight 72, it wasn't vaccinated. Let them split, save their lives.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63022	Comrade Grmo, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63023	Thank you. So, one question, Minister. Whether there is even some comparison of measures or countries that have had stricter measures, lighter measures and their impact, in general, on the spread of the virus, on the number of hospitalized and people who unfortunately died. So, I think that as part of the international community and international health organisations, Croatia should insist on one concrete analysis. We have a fact that if we look at comparisons of some big difference, there is no difference, so especially countries that had extra strict measures and countries that had slightly lighter measures like Croatia, or if you want Western Herzegovina that has very low fissure and there is no big difference. Here I'm asking you if there's any comparative analysis. And will we insist on being on the device? [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63024	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63025	Thank you very much for that question. It's really very well-founded. What there are analyses carried out at all times, however, everyone is looking for a way for himself so at this point both in the world and in Europe. There's no one-signed solution, no unfortunately magic wand. Croatia has worked on the experience of others in the beginning, and I must admit from this place that I am proud that we have succeeded to the extent that we are. We could've gone different. Epidemiologists often speak to you if all people shut down and made the hard lockdown virus certainly wouldn't spread and that's possible, but it's not meaningful, it's not life, then we'll die of neither virus nor hunger. Therefore, Croatia has applied a balanced approach to safeguarding health, but safeguarding economic activity and that is what we are going in. And that certainly when this pandemic is over, and I hope it will, underline the lines and analyze for some future pandemics, all the different approaches I believe it will. But I'm still, you know, past time. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63026	Comrade Kekin, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63027	Thank you. So, the Honorable Minister. The 9th page of the report states that hospitals have shown that special attention is directed to early detection and timely care of patients with pathological conditions after a disease with special attention to the state of mental health of patients. Since I've worked alone recently at the largest clinical hospital center, and that's just as a mental health expert, I'm curious to know what this is specifically about. Special consideration is given to the state of mental health of patients after a disease. I am not familiar with the same special consideration, however, with the capacity of psychiatric clinics from the beginning of the pandemics constantly shrinking, constantly shrinking, spatial capacity, the only thing that occurred to me is that perhaps you mean the situations that during this pandemic were, in any case, when psychiatrists and psychiatrists worked on Covid departments as a pulmologist intern. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63028	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63029	Well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, It saddens me that you are not familiar with our instructions to all mental health care institutions. Also, I don't know what health institution you worked at, but I have information from Sparrow, from some other health institutions that special attention with the inclusion of phone lines was addressed to mental health as health professionals,... So are the patients. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And if you ask why they're in some cases Reduced the number of beds, you know the answer. [[Intruder: Comrade Kekin, please.]] So that we can enable all Covid-19 positive patients to stay and receive adequate treatment, in which, thank God, we have succeeded. So I absolutely support you, not thinking differently, the importance of mental health. At some point, we did everything we could to strengthen the same thing. In some, and in this House there have been several occasions of speech what the Drape's psych clinic has done with intervention teams, special phones, etc. So you can't say that nothing was done.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63030	Comrade Antoliæ Vupra, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63031	... Dear Minister, in the past experience, unfortunately long-term with the Covid-19 crisis, especially in homes for older and powerless and in institutions of social care, we have seen what needs to be done to improve the situation. [[Specially enabled.]] [[Intruder: Comrade Kekin, turn off yourself.]] [[Oh, I'm sorry, thank you.]] [[/Intruder: Here you go.]] In particular, these are the coordination between the different bodies responsible for the work of the institutions mentioned above. Will you unify the forms you need to fill out? Will you make it easier for home workers? That's the first one. Secondly, will you do and publish a plan that includes a longer period of time, I mean next year, at least by mid-year, what will you take from measures, what can people expect when numbers come to certain numbers, when certain numbers appear?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63032	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63033	Thank you, ma'am. Parliamentarians. It's a well-founded question. So in a conversation with counterpart Aladrovic, I know that there is a daily question about how to uniformize behavior. We in the health system have also tried to find one way of uniformed treatment in all health institutions, so I am sure that in the system of the Ministry of Labour, social care will do everything but in this sense that you have spoken. When it comes to these announcements of possible measures, I don't know if you're thinking again about some traffic light or something, but I can tell you again what we've been communicating all along. We monitor the situation from day to day and adapt to the current moment. Now say what will happen in a month, two months, three months, absolutely not possible. This is such a disease that there is a need to keep track of the situation and adapt to measures. We can speak in principle, but we do not want to give false hope or awaken any additional fear We want to be realistic and grounded. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63034	Thank you. Comrade Karlic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63035	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. Here behind us are the 3 summer months in which we had a much smaller number of infected, sick, of course and dead, despite the large number of tourists, a million, about daily and so on. As doctors, we are aware that the arrival of colder days is actually a problem, there is a greater number of infected for reasons, first, lack of sun, due to a smaller stay in the open space, due to a denser stay in a closed area, due to the inability to ventilate, due to crowds and, of course, to the fall of immunity of persons due to, of course, the delta of the virus variant that is more contagious and it is clear that the number of infected and the number of deaths will increase. So my question is why you might have been surprised these two days when that number of deaths increased to 25, 23, maybe here, as an explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63036	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63037	Here, thank you for that question, I see you're a respected Mr. Parliamentarian allowed. So... I'll repeat what I said. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So your whole... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63038	Wait a minute. Hold on, hold on, Minister. Now you're getting a warning from a colleague of Matula, that's an art. 238, to be finished without prior approval of the chairman, his incursions and otherwise interfered with by the speaker. I've done it once or twice, but now you've gone too far and you're getting a warning. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63039	I've been witnessing for my entire professional life that people with great hope, I already said, are coming to a doctor. They want that medicine. There are diseases that are incurable and then we're all frustrated, but the cure for this disease exists. I expressed myself unsettledly yesterday, I apologize to everyone, and mostly to the families of the deceased, but in a way, with great concern, I see the situation that 27 people have passed away and shouldn't have. That's what we're talking about, that there's a cure. That they could be vaccinated and that the situation would probably be different according to scientific and professional knowledge at the moment. There, that's my answer. It's clumsyly expressed, but the meaning is the same. We've got the cure, we're not using it. Let's call it my concern, no surprise, and my apology one more time. But let's all ask ourselves why we're not using this drug that's available to us. Why aren't we like other countries?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63040	Thank you. Comrade Buric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63041	Thank you, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, dear Minister Beroch. Vaccination is certainly the greatest medical success of the 20th century and vaccination has done and saved more lives than any other medical intervention and these are facts. That's inconclusive. Also, data from the Report that are before us confirm that the head vaccine is stored, that the vaccine preserves lives, given that we also see data from the total number of deceased in the reporting period, 78% were not vaccinated. I claim that the government is the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Health and all other ministries that they are in crisis with the health aspect, which they have economically addressed both in good time and in time and in strategic terms. And what I want to ask you is about a possible decline in the medical care system, are these accurate information, are they semi-information, or are these simple misinformation?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63042	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63043	Well, thank you very much. Most of it, and he answered here, and I didn't get to answer Mr. Brumnić to the end, it wasn't my intention, absolutely not and all the time I'm only telling the truth and the truth. However, I'll tell you about your answer in class to what I've said about the reviews so far, and so on, say that something, when it comes to hospitalizations, the number of examinations has dropped by around 20.45%. But it's about those conditions that could have been delayed. In the case of daily hospitals in 2019 there were the same reviews and processing of a million 169, 2020 pandemic million and 30, meaning no less. What's the fact that we've given clear guidance in which cases something can be delayed. Also after opening, we tried to make up for all the backlogs resulting from certain restrictions, etc., but simply the circumstances are, we have to adapt to them for the safety of our patients.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63044	Thank you. Comrade Reiner, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63045	Your Honor, Mr. President. Your Honor, this defense against the opposition may have left you in debt, so let me just comment on something. My colleague Brumnic is very surprised that 5,000 people died more. Well, he died because he was Covid-19 and so many people died last year, we really shouldn't be surprised. But what I would ask you is, part of the citizens don't trust politics to quote the same person from the opposition, politics and political decisions that need to be vaccinated against covids. Now I'm very interested in how they explain that these same citizens believe that they can be vaccinated against various other diseases, children's diseases, against B hepatitis against which all healthcare professionals have to be vaccinated so that they can function and work, and suddenly half of them don't believe or it's pure politicization?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63046	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63047	Thank you very much. Well, Mr. Academy, it's about politicizing. And we didn't contribute to this debate today all together to look at scientific and professional facts not Croatian but worldly and to put them together to our citizens, to ask them to split, to ask them to learn that the virus is still among us, that they die daily, so that's the fact. And when it comes to something else, we're making fun of each other and we're asking why to test ourselves before entering the hospital? Well, it's been like that forever. Every health care professional must have a sanitary book that proves his health, health care, has had some infectious diseases, has had any parasites, has he had any itch or something, since the ages it's been so for certain jobs. Same now, new disease, new virus, new circumstances. If they don't want to vaccinate, we're wide enough not to be discriminatory so we don't force anyone against his beliefs,
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63048	Thank you. Comrade Boric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63049	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, when we talk about a successful tourist season today, it really was, and our statistics don't match the statistics of the gentlemen of the Most, we didn't have 13 billion overnights, we didn't have 13 million tourists on Hvar, but we had 12.5 million tourists and 80 million overnights. When compared to 2015 when the SDP led the country, 10 million overnight stays more than that year where there were no situations or diseases like this. So you know if we did or didn't. That's 50% more than we had in 2020. Why did we have one? Because we have had these liberal measures, one attempt to preserve life, to preserve economic flows, and to the greatest extent possible to preserve the health of citizens and those who come to us. That's true and that should be said clearly regardless of the attempt of those who say that these are experimental vaccines, that testing is fascism, that we have to deal with their stories that have nothing to do with anything. We're here to tell the truth, and we expect you to have this heart, truth and argument in the fight with these who are trying to... In line with the worst in the matter. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63050	Thank you, fellow Boric. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63051	Dear Mr. Parliamentarian, what to say from my point of view, just thank you to the profession, thank these people who work hard and hard, thank you to all health care professionals who treat our patients and thank the citizens who have recognised the possibility of self-defense and prevention. There's nothing more to add.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63052	Then let's move on. Comrade Lukacic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63053	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, when it comes to vaccination, I feel free to say that people with disabilities can be an example to others. So, in Croatia, we didn't have to take any major actions, I mean vaccination applications, while in Europe they had to, so the European Disabilities Organization wrote to the European Council, the European Parliament and the Commission to ask people with disabilities to put as a priority vaccination group. Thank you personally for making you and the ministry a priority for people with disabilities. As a priority vaccination group, I believe we will. to have good cooperation and to continue [[Intruder: Thank you]] And here's to saving and saving people. [[Intruder: Thank you]] with a disability of severe illness. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63054	I'm asking you to stick to the weather. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63055	Thank you, ma'am. MPs, you don't have to thank me, absolutely not the Ministry, yes, but most of all the HZZ who made the plan and the programme of introduction, implementation and monitoring of vaccinations on our dick and pride. He respected everything relevant, he respected, of course, the fact that disabled persons are in a way priority given their vaccination status, but we also tried to look at the wider context, all other vulnerable groups. At a time when we have for legitimate economic reasons, and having excess vaccines for all, we have also determined to vaccinate other priority groups, for example, tourist workers, which has certainly contributed to such a good tourist season that has not happened on its own. So the profession did it and I joined her and here I join your thanks the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63056	Let's move on now, colleague Puljak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63057	Dear Ministers, perhaps I should just say that these vaccinations, or actions, so “Think of other vaccines,” may have to be renamed and said “think of yourself and vaccinate” to invite citizens to really think of themselves whoever doesn’t want a respirator, have a severe disease, here we invite them to be vaccinated. But I'll take the opportunity here to ask you another question. Recently, on the Committee on Science and Education, we had a report on the research of the Institute of Social Research which showed that in the system of education and students and teachers actually suffer from and actually have the psychological consequences of both Covid and earthquakes. The fact is that from Prevlaka to Zagreb you do not have a hospital bed where children and adolescents who need psychiatrists can lie. What are you doing to improve the situation, or that there are departments where children can lie [[Intruder: Thank you.]] children with mental problems. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63058	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63059	I thank Mrs. Parliamentarians, the issues that touch the functioning of the health system are absolutely justified and do not fall within that category of politics. You have touched two very important topics, think of yourself, think of others, without mutual solidarity we will not get out of this crisis. Only everyone together can get out of this crisis. I didn't personally come up with a campaign logo, but this is the point I've just told you. Furthermore, I am aware of the lack of bed for the hospital care of children's psychiatric patients, and I am also involved as a ministerial assistant in solving them. I'm afraid Covid's here, but I don't think it's an excuse for you not to take this the wrong way. I know there's capacity in KBC Rebro, and I know that I've spoken to the head of that clinic that a certain other part of the Rebr building is being re-scheduled for that purpose because we know that these others These other accommodation facilities are neither adequate nor adequate. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63060	Let's go to the last line, Comrade Lerotić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63061	Dear Ministers, when we talk about the tourist season, the profession has done its part of the job, but I think we are underlining how much our citizens have also shown that they are responsible and certainly one of the most responsible with the tourist employees we have had such a season. However, I would return to vaccination, we have about 46% of the total population split, and about 48 adults if I'm not mistaken and I don't think he can be satisfied with it, so I'm interested in what are the further steps in order to educate the citizens enough and even more to vaccinate and thus protect ourselves from this pandemic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63062	Let's go answer it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63063	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Parliamentarian, you've made good findings, what we're doing is you see every little bit of a new measure. The first thing we did was re-orient ourselves from the vagrants to go towards our citizens, so to them. Furthermore, we have introduced a patronage service that visits the community with doctors of family medicine of our elderly citizens from week to week. Every week in the government, I read how many older people were vaccinated. These percentages are devastating because approximately 25% of the estimated population are vaccinated, 24, 25, 27 a week. 75 does not vaccinate. Defeating that workers are coming home to explain the benefits of vaccinations, they explain the risks of non-vaccination, but they do not decide. We are also doing additional steps, however [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63064	Comrade Simičević, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63065	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers, you are an emotional and valuable man, you work hard and you care that the system works in the most difficult time of the great creature that has hit our country and the whole world. If you were doing this well, we could see that some other states had three months of quarantine, we had, we had three months. You've done everything to protect the health of our citizens. They're attacking you for everything and everything, even though you're not guilty, and among other things, they're attacking you for health reform. Who is responsible and serious today can talk about health reform when we are fighting for the naked lives of our citizens in the greatest monster that has ever happened to Croatia and the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63066	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63067	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Parliamentary Representative. You're right in principle, but not completely. First, I'm gonna say I'm emotional because I'm doing this job responsibly because I care about the health of the citizens. Every deceased goes between the others and me to the soul, 27 of them yesterday, so I made that statement. So I do my job responsibly, I do my best, not just me, but my associates. And when it comes to reform, you're wrong. We have no luxury, no time to wait for change. Although this government has not happened for decades and I am personally as a minister and I am also emotional and responsible, I want to carry out reform steps. They are not empty words, and very quickly it began with the work of the Working Group to amend the Health Protection Act, which is the basis of the reform. You will bear witness to measures that will be white. If we could respond to this global, global extreme challenge, we're going to change and we will heal the Croatian health system. [[Intruder: Thank you Minister.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63068	I thank Minister Berosch, he responded to very many replicas very exhaustingly, now he can return to his post, and we will move on. Would the rapporteur of the Health and Social Policy Committee like to take a word for it either by her deputy or by her deputy? No, then I'm opening the debate first is my esteemed colleague, Zeljko Reiner, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63069	Dear Mr. President, honourable ministers, colleagues and colleagues, I would like first to congratulate on this report, which covers only 3 months, and there is a lot of data, a lot of facts, numbers, charts of very concrete answers to questions that Croatian citizens ask about this. We're not used to it in this high house. We rarely get reports in the rule of one year, sometimes in two years, sometimes we get them with a delay of one or two years, we get these in a timely manner, not a month, not a month after actually the deadline was and covers only 3 short months. In this period, Croatia is mostly in the middle of somewhere towards the rate of confirmed patients compared to the rest of the EU countries. Somewhere in the lower half according to the rate of fatalities that is relevant to a stable epidemiological situation but, of course, the need to increase the proportion of vaccines particularly among vulnerabilities and never, it is not sufficiently stressed that vaccination must be stimulated because vaccination is at this point the only option to contain this deadly disease. Let's face it, the disease is deadly and deadly. A more favourable epidemiological situation resulted in a reduction in the number of hospitalized Covid-19 patients, and then hospital institutions were able to gradually reduce their capacities for such patients by harmonising them with their current needs. Since the beginning of June 2021, there has been a significant increase in the number of test sites available for the implementation of rapid antigen tests, as many as 249 institutions have been set up to carry out rapid antigen tests that have had their locations most in the Adriatic Croatian counties, which of course made it easier for travellers from various countries who visited Croatia for tourism. What I'd devote to, even though I'm a doctor most of the time, is just that. Thanks to quality preparations, thanks to everything that has been done in advance we have had an unexpected good tourist season in a situation where there is not only a global health crisis related to the Covid-19 pandemic but also a global economic crisis in all countries, far richer countries than that Croatia has managed to achieve a very successful season. When we look at numbers, of course, it's incomparable to a number of foreign tourists than it was last year, of course it wasn't 13 billion people, as it was spoken in a sense, but it was a significantly large, larger number than it was last year. Of course there wasn't even 13 million on Hvar, they wouldn't even fit on Hvar, but there were also significant more and August was always the strongest month. This year with a total score of 93% overnight in August. Pre-pandemic '19. This is an important piece of information because it is about the month in which the most prices are made in the year and it will certainly affect the total income of tourism this year. The value of fixed accounts in tourist activities in August was 21% higher than in August of pre-pandemic 2019, while at year level their value was around 18 billion kuna, which is about 84% of the value from the first 8 months of 2019. What does this mean in a broader European context? What are we compared to our tourist competitors who have been more successful than we have been so far? The whole preparation of the main part of the tourist year was of course under challenging circumstances of the pandemic, but with good coordination and cooperation we managed to position Croatia as one of the most successful tourist destinations in the Mediterranean. This is the result of the synergy not only of health to which the recognition should be given, but also of the entire tourist sector, of all resorts in the government, the Civil Protection Headquarters, and therefore Croatia was the safest tourist destination in the Mediterranean. This Safe stays in Croatia, which we promoted, apparently had quite an echo. When compared to the countries that are our competitors in tourism, then we can see that, for example, neighbouring Italy by the end of July has achieved 50% of the nights compared to pre-pandemic 2019, in Greece unfortunately again because of catastrophic fires more than because of the pandemic also half of the tourist nights compared to 2019. Spain, which was unfortunately epidemiologically in the red zone for most summers and accordingly had a poor result of tourist traffic, experienced a 50% decline compared to that of poor 2020. Therefore, a whole series of countries unfortunately went far worse in the Mediterranean than Croatia. Someone mentioned Portugal, unfortunately despite today's good cleavage of Portugal, Portugal unfortunately the whole season was as red as Cyprus and the good parts of Greece. No one's happy about it, but it's facts. Croatia was on a map of the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control all green until 15 July then from 15 July to 2 September, parts of Croatia were in orange, all of which enabled the very results I was talking about. And now we have to say something that is not usually said for a variety of reasons, Croatia singles out per capita for health 862 euros, if we compare ourselves with these countries that I have now mentioned which our tourism competitors in tourism Italy allocates 2.534 euros, Spain 2,310 euros, Portugal 1,877 euros, Cyprus 1,645 euros, Greece 1,328 euros, so all these countries are incomparably more eligible for health than Croatia, and Croatia has managed very well to cope with the pandemic and achieve this season as we have often talked about because we have found the right balance. We have secured the protection of the health system, the economy, the finances, the traffic of our coast in July and August, indeed according to the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control, was such that it was desirable for tourists. In the second quarter of this year, an extremely high annual GDP growth of 16.1% was reported, which is a significant growth. According to current Eurostat data, the fifth best among EU members. The biggest contribution to the annual GDP growth in the second quarter of this report comes from the growth of personal consumption that was up 18.14%, the exports of goods and services that increased 40.9%, which are precisely the good part of the tourism activity. For such economic recovery and high growth of personal consumption, the government has contributed to the policy of preserving jobs over the past period, which has managed to keep the labour market stable and continue to implement tax reform, which has allowed for the further growth of average wages. Croatia undergoes covid crisis in a way One that she could pass on, and hopefully we'll keep on doing that. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63070	Next comes the Club of Representatives Mosta Selak Rasudić-Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63071	The Honorable Ministers. I'll call you right back at the beginning and call you back for a dialogue. So, you know you have a business opportunity to address after my exposure. Since my questions are critical, for Croatian citizens it is much better that you have answers and that I am wrong than that I am right. I would rather bear that burden if you would indeed address and clarify these ambiguities than to keep these important issues in the air. So, I invite you ministers to dialogue, and I really mean it, these are too important questions that we here would exclusively politically score and have a conversation with ourselves. The first thing that may be the most important thing for Croatian construction and what I am interested in here is how many Croatian citizens really didn't go to check-ups for the crown? The data in this report now indicate 31% less than before the start of the pandemic with data from the waiting and e-ordering system. Reduced patient arrival in the family doctor's office by about 20%. So, you yourself said every third citizen of the Republic of Croatia will die of cancer. What do we do to prevent this, and how much does it cost us to prevent it, not just prevention, but control checks because of this whole situation? The second question, let's really talk business, about our economic situation because the direct consequence of this pandemic and the measure is the inflation that we all feel now. When I asked you about the amount of vaccines I didn't ask you about because I think or don't think you should get the vaccines, it's less relevant here, I asked you because the vaccines cost a lot. One vaccine allegedly according to Financial Teams Pfizer increased from about 15 to about 20 euros, we ordered about 11 million doses just as much as Pfizer. So far, 3.3 million doses of vaccines have been spent in Croatia, and I have to bear in mind that first and foremost vaccines have been given to those who really wanted to, and now it stands. If the amount of 18 million is obtained even for the next three years, and for two and more, that means that according to the current rhythm we can expect, this is a very rough calculation, that we need about 9, 10 million doses of vaccines. So if we're playing with our calculation we have about 9 million doses too, we're going to lose if we take every vaccine is about 20 euros, $1.35 billion, this is a proviso calculation, but it doesn't matter how much we order because it costs us so much. So that's why I'm asking you why you based this calculation on the interest of our citizens who are who they are. And we need to know that we haven't been doing very well so far because 200,000 doses were donated first, and then 310,000 doses donated, so obviously we have some extra vaccines that we donate, so we have to do more precise calculations. The second question, so why aren't we taking into account hospitalized and dead covid statistics? The entire scientific community is currently having a debate about this and you know it whose immunity is stronger, the over-experienced or the vaccinated. So, of crucial importance for the health of our citizens, but also for Croatian science to get over getting involved in this statistics. It's not my question if there are any and if there's one sick person who's re-infected, hospitalized and died, there's more of them than there are, so we have to run that statistic. At least 400,000 of our citizens are officially over the years, and they need to know how much of these conditions are protected. So I appeal to include it in the statistics. Secondly, the official narrative was to protect the vaccine from severe illness and death. My parents were vaccinated, the current statistics you presented in this report show that this was not entirely true, that among the covid sufferers or those who were hospitalized for covid and died approximately every fifth was vaccinated. I would like it to be done to my parents and all the other risk groups due to age or health conditions that have been vaccinated in a transparent manner, not to be dragged into a sense of false security where they are not being watched because they think they are completely protected from difficult forms and death, and reality, your report tells them otherwise. So, deny me freely and explain in more detail. Public procurement, Minister, public procurement is a matter of the social mechanism that controls you, your transparency must not be a question of your goodwill as much as you are or you do not want or want to be transparent but must be a matter of the system that will control you. I don't care about goodwill, I want you to include a system that's there to prevent corruption in covid health, and we know that we need this because of the current HDZ verdict and because of the fact that all world organisations warn that the greatest corruption is right in health and right at the time of covid. So, I'm going to ask you to give us about the state of the nation's health and the nation's health recovery plan in view of the lack of review due to this crisis. By returning public procurement equating covid measures and COvid passes and including over-experienced in statistical covid analysis. Minister, these are all constructive proposals and I am asking you to address here and explain what I was talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63072	Here are the citizens who are watching I know that there may be more important things about the verdict right now I see that the HDZ is most debated in public, but this is a very important topic. We ministers here are trying to look ourselves in the eye and tell the truth. I see that my lapus is quoted instead of 13 million tourists, 13 billion tourists, of course a knight from the Jerusalem tomb is very, very well noticed. However, I would go here to tell you what I wanted to talk to you about when the Civilian Staff from Sinj... and I with you, and you didn't want to. You immediately threw a Stigma at Sinj when 13 million tourists were in Croatia already 15.7. At the same time, you were sending loose memos that Thompson's concert was banned, so later also great pressure on concerts of the association... in Sinj. At the same time in Solin when Thompson's concert in Sinj was 5,000 people, I have nothing against it without any testing, no control at all. The whole of Croatia was flooded, thank God it is such a policy for tourists only the Stigma was thrown at Sinj. And you, after Alka's success, after everything you've done literally the whole time you've arrived at Sinj, you've just been throwing on irresponsible behavior by local authorities. So imagine you... 100,000 pilgrims during the Great Lady know where they were? In a park with no toilets, no dry cleaners, and you know where our kids were? To Livna. A couple thousand kids went to Livno every night to disco, and they're doing it now on the weekends. Over the mountain of Kamšnica to make something happen, there is no crown asleep. On the Peljesk Bridge of Ministers when there were thousands of your party colleagues, what was the party card enough? No masks, no nothing. It's called hypocrisy, hypocrisy when the Ministers of Cameras are shut down here you see fellow MPs, as soon as the cameras are shut down by one, first me, we take off the masks. Is that called hypocrisy? At the same time, I'm sending the C.E.O. to the directors. kids don't need masks. What am I going to tell you about? Is the same directors who imposed the children's masks the other day was a 100-year anniversary marking a irrelevant event in a monastery filled with people without masks and between them and a director without a mask. The health issue is for me in Sinj, we have a health problem. It's my problem that people can't control their heart, which I can't diagnose, there's no diagnostic devices, there's no doctor that's a much bigger problem. The problem is that I have an open sewer at the end of kindergarten, open the entire town of Sinj, these are bigger problems of inequality of direction believe me. Believe me, the unequal direction that you've been doing this lite and you've thrown.../incomprehensible... you've made a campaign for Sinjo, because people have been coming in a lot. The more you are, thank you for that, the big campaign toss a Stigma on Sinj. So what did you say, that an alkar could race an alcove apart from a horse? Literally if I hadn't objected you would have sent such a recommendation, you would have 100%. So once again, you were not correct towards the city of Sinj because it was obviously not your problem, Covid-19, but your problem was what the people chose, which was chosen by the mayor Mir Bulj and for that, it must be a shame for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63073	Next is the debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns, respected representatives Sačić and Pavliček.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63074	Dear Ministers, the Honorable Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, here are just over a year and a half of the days when we are in Covid pandemic in a schizophrenic situation, the paranormal situation of the Minister, I ask a simple question. Do you have any idea how to get out of this current situation that we're in? You're pointing to vaccination, and it's not going to come out unfortunately with that either, and I'm afraid you won't, because that's what the scientific studies show. Namely, here's what you'll hear. In the last year and a half, the leaders of the civil protection headquarters have just led us to a good part of this confusion where the whole society is currently in place with their contradictory statements that have refuted themselves. So let's just remember some of the beginnings of last summer, the prime minister is slantingly speaking Croatia has won the crown. Four months a day, a couple hundred, then a couple thousand new ones. Let's remember Mr. Capak's statement to your first associate, March last year, masks don't help them have just psychological meaning, healthy people don't have to wear masks. Six months after that same headquarters, it's decided that masks are mandatory in all closed spaces. We have statements from a number of scientists who are clear and loud, among them and you said that we will, and that was in early 2020, at the end of 2020, that we will gain collective immunity if 70% of citizens split up to read that leaders who worked on Pfeizer, i.e. a few weeks ago. on Astrazec's vaccine clearly and loudly say forget collective immunity, against the Delta strain we won't be able to fight like that. We have statements from scientists who said that in the beginning and studies the Pfeizer vaccine protects 90% of the disease so that several months later the Israel studies show that it protects only 39% from the disease itself. Well, we have decisions in some countries that children should be vaccinated, so here we are with the third dose of the vaccine. What's next? The fourth dose of the vaccine, then the fifth dose of the vaccine, so for the next 40, 50 years. Good for us. At the same time we're testing, testing people who haven't been vaccinated in the health system, and between them 6000 there's 20 and something that's positive, why you didn't dare test everything. There'd probably be positives among these, you know, there'd be 20 of them, too. And they probably introduced that virus, so that's not how you fight the virus itself. On the other hand, what we have, total confusion and spiral from which no one sees the way out, you first. Every day you bomb us with themes today we have so many sick, so many hospitalized, so much on the respirator. So imagine that the last 50 years have been talked about every day, we have so many cancer patients, tumors, all the other malignancies, so what would be my open-air psychiatry? I think I have access to Covid-19 to change. As much as we constantly potential Covid-19, Covid-19, Covid-19 90% of our fellow citizens will end up on tranquilizer sedatives, because this is not a normal situation, and I think you agree that this is simply not a normal situation right now. I think that the approach itself should be completely changed maybe only to report on people who are seriously ill, not to go with numbers that really affect the mental health of our fellow citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63075	Dear Vice-President of the Assembly, Mr. Minister, respected colleagues and colleagues, the Croatian public, so we Croatian sovereigns have long pointed to all the problems, all the illogicalness, all the frustrations that the average Croatian man feels because of the repressive measures of the headquarters, which we all, in the beginning, said well we didn't know before and after what was happening, about this biological weapon, about this virus, and we even agreed to, we thought somehow that it was normal for this lockdown to be declared and to comply with these measures in the interest of health, thinking that this is a new age of some sort, a goddess, something deadly, something that could cut us down on the street, anywhere. In time, however, we have now been looking, listening, reading other opinions scientific, professional, so if you want to find out from some other foundations, in fact, that Covid virus has caused severe problems for a certain number of people, but thank God, for 99.85% of the patients, he is not lethal. He is deadly, unfortunately 0.15% sick and as the minister says, and in that group of 0.15%, some died with the virus, some of the virus, and it's a tragedy, it's evil, if that virus causes death, not getting into how many people die daily because of other severe diseases. Because of the terrible illnesses, unfortunately each of us has the opportunity to witness the pain of our loved ones, including ourselves when we end up on emergency medical care or when we treat our longtime illnesses. So we have a duty to say again, join everyone to give immense thanks to all medical professionals, to our staff of the most professional professors, doctors, nurses, and nonmedical staff who daily care for the welfare of our loved ones. It's first and foremost, it's a platform that we need to start today, and it's your job for ministers to make their lives easier, work, not apologize, don't bring in measures that are tied to them anyway, even more to tie their legs with some kind of administrative obstacle that they have to do this, that they have to. If they won't, they'll be fired, and they're fired anyway, you're aware they're threatened anyway. Find a model to facilitate their life and work in the interest of Croatian people and Croatian citizens, in the interest of Croatian patients and our loved ones. Don't try as hard as anyone there on KBC or anywhere, extra frustrating them, further disabling them. Respect your opinions, and if you are already getting into it, the good colleague Pavliček also said colleagues, so today the transmitters of these infections are not just unvaccinated, so don't do it. You have managed to divide this Croatian society capitalically, we are in today, in Croatian society capitalally divided, no longer into Ustashas, Chetniks and Partisans, no more to the rich, poor, no more to the smart and stupid than to the vaccinated and unvaccinated. You are frustrating the Croatian people, the Croatian citizens are unargumented because it has been proven to equally carry infections both vaccinated and unvaccinated. My friends, many, have been vaccinated twice and are back in the hospital and have the same access. We have a study, renowned experts, Professor Primorac. Why don't you give such studies meaning? Why don't you develop it, why don't you encourage the Croatian people and those who are unvaccinated as though it's not a sin, it's their decision, constitutional and whatever, but give them a boost to further develop that immunity, that they too remain alive and healthy here. They're equally dying, Mr. Minister, from the side effects of that vaccine, all the way things are, the Russian roulette, so it's an experimental vaccine we can't absolutely trust. Look at Israel. Thank you very much. You'll learn a lot.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63076	Next is the debate of the National Movement Representatives Club, respected Stephen Nikola Bartulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63077	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, the Secretary of State. My colleagues and colleagues. Here, I'm going to try this sensitive subject really to be fair and objective, we're all actually in a difficult situation, an uncertain situation where there hasn't been a single recipe since the beginning to answer, we're aware of that, and it's taking a pretty long time. But from the beginning, I'm still going to say that we're hearing contradictory information from the Staff that actually, I'd say, gives the impression that it sometimes improvises with us and with new circumstances. One time, for example, it was said that masks do not protect us, which was something earlier last year, while today it is insisted that children also have to wear masks to school. What we are particularly concerned about is that we do not see an end to this condition. No one can predict at all how much we will live under these circumstances. However, it should be said that by introducing Covid, we are still entering a new phase of the pandemic. Healthy people must regularly prove to be healthy. Medical and social care workers who are not vaccinated must be tested regularly, twice a week to be able or should continue to work. For those who refuse to do so are prepared and cancelled, and that is possible. Minister, at the beginning of the introduction, I asked you in the House if the cancellations were an option, then you gave an unspeakable answer, you said the lawyers would study it, and now we hear the possibility of firing if these people don't submit to this new order for any reason, so I can get fired. The state of health has already been compromised and now threatens to leave an even greater number of people. So the nurses who have recently protested I think they have the right word from clap to clap because indeed they and the other and the doctors are on the front lines of this panedema and they know best the state of the system in our hospitals. However, we should say the same thing about the same danger or a certain threat to fundamental rights, and history teaches us that once people give up these rights hard to return, they hardly return them. So that history has repeatedly confirmed. I'll say I have nothing against vaccinations and I know a lot of people personally who have made up their mind and are satisfied. In the immediate family, I have members who have been vaccinated, they feel good and secure today, but what we need to say and where we draw the line is not to put this kind of pressure, and almost blackmail to make people do it. You need to stay free of choice, you need to stay free of choice. When it comes to other topics, then we hear the phrase my body chooses, and here it's not worth it. It's obviously not worth it when it comes to vaccination, it's not worth my body's choice. It's forgotten. So the same question is raised here earlier, what happens in health and with other patients because we see because of media pressure would say this extraordinary state is created what is with patients, cancer patients, heart patients, others, where mortality is much greater than covid, what about them? We know that last year's numbers aren't good, they're not good, and that has to be taken care of. So, you're the Minister of Health, not Minister of Covida, I understand that the pressure is great not only here but also in the world, but we have to take care of all our patients. ... Tell me what happened. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63078	Excuse me. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63079	So, what about the other patients? At a famous meeting of the Health Committee, where Minister Maric was also, we talked about the need for health reform, so at one point, Mr Minister, and you admitted that the system was not actually reformed and that it still has a kind of socialist approach. These are the same problems you inherited and that need to be solved. We have limited resources. It is not my solution to increase the monthly contribution to healthcare, but rather high, and rarely when services can be consumed quickly. Therefore, we must speak in total of what to do, not just how to react here in an extraordinary situation because others continue to suffer and wait and unfortunately die. So the question arises how many among the dead are those who are in some way victims of this condition, this closure of part of the health system, and who today could be among us that they received health care in time? I read many studies on the effectiveness of vaccinations, these are big debates, and I wish there was less censorship on social networks that people could hear other opinions. But what is undeniable, what is undeniable is that vaccinated people can also infect and spread the virus, to a lesser extent, but they can, we can't rule it out, it's a fact, it's undeniable. So the question arises, so are we safe or is the hospital, our hospitals, are they safer now if the vaccination of a person doesn't have to be tested because without symptoms they can be infected again and spread the covid? So, ladies and gentlemen, often black and white is shown this, is someone consistent with scientific achievements or is lagging behind and does not want to admit what is actually a consensus. However, in this situation we must say that there is no consensus among scientists, there is no. We still have new studies, new data, things would say fluidly develop over time. Therefore, we cannot conclude that there is only this way of solving this pandemic which I hope will soon stop. So what has been said before by some colleagues that it is not good to create divisions in society etc., we will always have divisions, there will be divisions, we live in a free country. However, what we need to safeguard is some level of protection of fundamental rights, including freedom of conscience. I don't like being a parent lately putting a big emphasis on kids because we know they're not a risk group. So that's the way to think, see, and here's what I hope you'll appreciate these arguments here today, most sincerely, because we all want to go back to the way he used to live. We all want that. It's just a question of how. Those countries that have a much higher level of fissure than us haven't solved this situation to the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63080	Next is the debate on behalf of the SDP MPs' club, respected representative Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63081	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Assembly, distinguished ministers with co-workers, respected colleagues and colleagues, so we have heard that the report includes the activities undertaken by the Government, the Civil Protection Centre of the Republic of Croatia, the state bodies, units of regional self-government, units of local self-government and legal persons to protect public health interests, or with the aim of implementing measures and procedures aimed at protecting public health in the area of the Republic of Croatia due to the outbreak of Covid-19 disease. The report said that a peaceful and stable epidemiological situation prevailed in the Republic of Croatia during June, July and August 2021, and that a new deterioration was recorded, according to a slight deterioration at the end of August. However, we are witnessing a significant increase in recent weeks, and it is important to note, noting that this time of year, compared to 2020, the situation is significantly worse with more infected, more dead or hospitalized. The report taxively lists activities carried out in the field of prevention, preparedness of response and recovery, as well as strategic objectives of conducting testing, monitoring and monitoring of infected persons and contacts, supervision and monitoring of hospital facilities for the treatment of Covida-19 patients and the implementation of vaccinations, and this is all beautifully written and here is fine. It's good to have, at least we hope enough capacity for 2,000 beds for Covid of that over 250 in.../incomprehensible/... sufficient respirators, a sufficient number of health care workers who have been educated to work in Covid for some future times or for the present. However, the vaccination campaign did not get a satisfactory effect. In the report for the previous period, we criticised that the campaign was missing, we suggested that everything should be fixed. It is because the vaccination organisation of the previous months and improved, the number of vaccination points increased, mobile vaccination teams were introduced, primary health care health care professionals, from the secondary wards were actively involved in vaccination, promoted, motivated their patients to vaccinate, and some pharmacies were included since September. But there's still a problem. Over 30% of the oldest population remained unvaccinated, and 65.9% of people over 65 years were vaccinated with both doses, and particularly the major problem was too small of the younger population. Therefore, more actively it is necessary to present vaccinations as the only tool that can stop the pandemic. Unfortunately, we've never seen a concrete campaign plan before, nor who's the bearer. Is it the government, the Ministry of Health, HZZ or someone fourth. And then we can't even claim who's responsible for the bad campaign, so then we ask you to deliver a concrete campaign plan. It's not a campaign. There's a vaccine for you. Why don't you just vaccinate and the Prime Minister's face is still scrawny. Unfortunately, no official research has been published so far why people do not want to be vaccinated, what population, which are their dilemmas. Who really has to do the vaccination promotion? These must be health care professionals, and not only prominent professors, but other doctors, healthcare professionals across all regions, should include ordinary citizens who have been vaccinated and who still have to be some kind of person, I think talk about their experiences, as much as possible to include athletes, public persons, artists, etc., public television, commercial television, local television, radio stations, other media. We need posters, digital extensions on social networks, webs and the like, and messages should be repeated constantly and endlessly, but not confusing the citizens. The problem is unfortunately unconsistent communication. And this is what happens with the fact that some members of the Scientific Council of the Government of the Republic of Croatia present their views contrary to attitudes and professions and sciences and the rest of the scientific advice and say that the pandemic is over 3 times so far, that young people do not contribute to the weight of the pandemic, etc., which does not correspond to the truth. In this way, Prime Minister Plenkovic had to be fenced at least twice from Professor Plenkovic's views. Lauca, who is not actually a doctor's, medical profession, nor will she answer for her questionable statements. As we heard on the Committee on Health in comment with these statements, Lauca, in fact over 6,000 people under the age of 50 were treated in the Republic of Croatia by the hospitals of Covida-19, over 200 died at that age and it is therefore very important that young people be vaccinated. Furthermore, in the total number of new patients 85.56% were not vaccinated, 80.21% of patients hospitalized by Covida-19 were unvaccinated and 20 percent were vaccinated. But citizens need to be clearly told on several occasions and educated as to why some vaccines are also hospitalized. 22% of them unfortunately died and 77.89% of the unvaccinated died, and the profession should be made clear to the public, and here are some of our colleagues that the matter is in insufficient immunity acquired after vaccination due to other diseases such as hematological, oncological patients, a series of comorbidities at age because this is how people think vaccination is not effective. Worse than us, unfortunately only the Bulgarians and Romanians are, and we really need to ask ourselves what to do next. Today 51.64% of adults were vaccinated, however, as we keep saying, the percentage of the split population is too small to stop the pandemic in the coming weeks. Therefore, the announcements from the Institute of Public Health Andrija Stampar, whose recent director, are concerned, now adviser Zvonimir Shostar said two or three days ago that unless an interest in vaccination is increased, the checkpoints will close during the month, two, three, in late December. In other areas, there is no announcement of the closure of vaccination points despite the reduction of interest, nor is it time of course to close these mass points, but it does not need to be communicated to the public. The introduction of a covid certificate into the health care system is a matter of professional standard, not a question of individual freedom. We believe that the control of hospital entry is not coercion but protection because it is the duty of the state to protect the health and life of patients, but also employees, and those who do not respect these rules actually have reasons that are in collegiate with their professional work. The independent health union submitted a request to the Constitutional Court for the assessment of constitutionality for the introduction of covid certificates in health, but that there was better communication and dialogue with them might not have been so much dissatisfaction in our system as well. Furthermore, what are our other shortcomings in the report and contentious matters? The number of patients who are hospitalized, not covid patients, the number of postcovid patients, the availability of healthcare data is missing, the more detailed postbenefit analysis is missing. The total cost of testing for diseases has been reported to be treatment of 2.1 billion kuna. There did not include the cost of salary compensation during temporary incompetence and vaccines, Remdesivir, a covid supplement for healthcare employees. However, the difference is so evident, but one more detailed analysis is missing. Health debt continues to grow, reforms have not yet been seen, I guess we'll see them soon. From 1.1. to 30.9. of this year's recovery for the debt of wholesalerry was 3.4 billion kuna, so here we hope to see little and more detailed indications and start to implement reforms. Covid is dangerous, but other diseases have not disappeared. Data from the State Statistics Institute show that in 2020 there was an increase in deaths compared to the previous year, so 5.229 people died more. In the first place of the circulatory system disease, further neoplasms, endocrine diseases, fourth cause of covid, then fifth injury and poisoning. You said yourself that unfortunately every third person in the Republic of Croatia will suffer from cancer. It is still under-implemented, a recent national anti-cancer strategy has been adopted. Due to the pandemic situation, many patients do not opt for preventive checks that are significantly reduced in the end line and hidden programs, delaying controls and additional tests. Unfortunately, this will worsen survival rates due to late cancer detection and other illnesses and treatment problems. And now I'm asking, in fact, what is the answer and solution of the ministry to that, what are you doing to make up for certain checks and searches? Of course, the problem that has to be directed by a large number of employees to the covid departments is missing us, the employees are tired, the problem is overtime, but we'd like to see the Ministry's plan for the following procedures. The balance sheet of the health care year says that 20% of fewer patients were treated last year, and hospitals spent 500 million kunas more and more in 2020, respectively, expenditures were 27 billion kuna and 2019. 26.5 billion kuna. Now, we who are in the health care of some things get a little better and accept as valid arguments, but I say communication to the public, according to this high home is insufficient, so I hope that here and the ministry will work a little bit more on valid communication. I will continue to discuss and, in the final presentation on behalf of the club, touch some more things related to the report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63082	In the name of the Club of the Centre and of the Voice, the respected representative of Anka Mrak Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63083	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, respected ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. This report is called the report on the effects of the implementation of the measure and one of the most important effects that we should have achieved should have been the high cleavage of people in Croatia. That effect, unfortunately, has not been achieved. I must say, I don't quite understand why and how so few people in Croatia decided to vaccinate. Covid-19 is a dying disease, proven. Nearly 8900 people died of covid in Croatia, and only about a million and 700 thousand people decided to vaccinate. Often and often talk about the work of the government and the headquarters on the crown, and often I have talked about both treatment and prevention and vaccination, and I do not save criticism and I still think that these criticisms were deserved. I talked about all of this both in the debate and the interpretation of the health system's preparation in December last year and many times after that. I'm trying to be objective, and I can't accept the excuses that are being heard in public that people don't vaccinate because they don't trust the government and headquarters. I don't trust the government or the headquarters either, so after I got over the crown, as soon as the doctor said I could, I went into vaccination. It seems to me that trust in science and common sense and I do not need Prime Minister Plenkovic or Minister Beroš to say that I should or should not be vaccinated. The fact is that we have a serious dangerous disease deadly, and we have a product of science that in most cases prevents death and the most severe forms and consequences of the crown. And then that vaccine that saves people's lives is massively rejected. I don't think anyone has a magic wand to solve that problem. I have to admit, and I'm trying to be objective that neither the government nor the headquarters have it, but they've been invited and responsible to do something about it, and what they've done so far is obviously not enough. You can simply see that from the official figures. And this report sets out the strategic objectives that are set on this issue. The first strategic objective is to obtain and distribute vaccines. This is obviously done because we have more than enough vaccines, and in an individual debate, I will do little about a new type of tourism where it comes to Croatia from some other countries that are outside the EU are vaccinated with Johnson, so I want to know what the minister knows about it and what is happening here because it is a new type of tourism that is developing in the Republic of Croatia. The second strategic goal was the organisation of vaccination points, and the third organisation of teams. I find it difficult to judge whether this has been done all over Croatia, but what I am pretty sure is that those who want to be vaccinated have and can do it somewhere. There were several other objectives, audits and improvement of IT solutions, gathering interest in vaccination according to the employment sector and continuing to monitor adverse reactions. And the last strategic goal is to continue the national vaccination campaign with the introduction of local campaigns with specific characteristics for individual areas. And that's where we're stuck, and we're not doing it right, and the Ministers don't do it right, but what's even scarier, you don't know how to move on, because out of effect, and that's what this report is called, it's clear that business isn't well done. I accept that this is a big job and a big task, but we've been here ten times since the prime minister and various representatives of the ruling party heard that the citizens in the elections have shown what they want, that they've won too well and that anyone has a salty mind for them. Well, ladies and gentlemen, now finally do the job, this is about saving lives, saving the way we knew him before the crown broke out. Please find a way to contain the matter because it is the most important job you have in this term. Another big topic is the health care system issue for patients who don't have covid-19 and that's the topic we've talked about many times. What we now know is that unfortunately we were right when we claimed that the closure of health care for normal prevention, diagnostics and treatment for all those who had no covid leads to the danger of late or no diagnosis. I repeat, unfortunately we were right, this is not the Croatian specificity of worrying numbers and forecasts coming from all over the world, regardless of what percentage it is. All the data tell us the same, significantly less disease especially cancer has been diagnosed since the start of the pandemic, and the disease hasn't disappeared. This means that we will soon record an increase in mortality due to excessive or no diagnosis and also late or no treatment. I repeat, this is not a Croatian specificity situation such as that throughout the world, but we here in Croatia must be able to fight the consequences because of us, it means that not only must things go back to the normal way before the pandemic, we must also step up efforts, preventive checks, the possibility of diagnostics and access to health in general, and we are still not back to normal. This also shows this report, we are in the stage of preparation in health institutions, just as it is called a special chapter, so we are preparing for normal work. Preparation for normal work in hospitals where the facilities for general health are slowly returning, preparation for normal work in other health care institutions in emergency medical services and sanitary transfer, and that's all great. Great to prepare for normal work, but with such slow preparation for normal work we will again have new consequences of the pandemic in quite other diseases and conditions that have nothing to do with the covid. So the second major task for the government, the headquarters and Minister Berosa is not to get things back to normal but to try to make up for at least part of what was missed in those cases where possible. The question is, can we hope for that and can we expect it? I'm not sure. I'm not sure. In this report there is also a chapter on the impact of measures in the field of science and education, one of the data that is disappointing to me is that 58% of the employees in science and education were vaccinated, which is better than in the general population, but I expected more. And they also work with children and young people who are largely unvaccinated, many of them are in this small space and can often be without symptoms. In such an environment, employees of education and science should be an example of responsibility and ultimately acceptance of the reach of science and human knowledge. There is a special topic, and this is the topic of the long-term impact of the pandemic on the development of a young generation in Croatia, so I have to admit that in the coming reports I will expect that, in addition to the lists that are all the rules of school and colleges should stick to or not stick to or stick to these very long-term, crawling and dangerous consequences of the pandemic. Everything I've talked about today is not vaccination, the problem of undiagnosed serious illness, the impact on the psyche of young people, and all of us in general are the dangerous consequences of the pandemic. Some of them are the direct result of the poor or insufficient work of government and headquarters, some are not. I have to be objective, and I have to be honest, but we're asking the same government and headquarters, and we're going to be asking for a huge and serious engagement, but unfortunately, I'm not sure they're capable of doing it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63084	Next is a debate on behalf of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives, respected representative Ivana Kekin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63085	... Here are the thanks and respected representatives and MPs, yesterday the highest number of infected in Croatia has been recorded since May with a truly creepy 27 dead. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] The competent minister, Beros, said, was alone with the prime minister this morning, as usual, commenting on the numbers, and we were surprised by today's extremely high ones. We learned from the above that the prime minister and health minister daily comment on the numbers of newly infected and infected which we certainly welcome in pandemic times. But we also learned that after 20 months have passed since the first infected Covidom-19, after a series of introduced, then abolished, and reintroduced epidemic measures, after a series of pandemic waves, after at least 8,800 dead, and probably more, after the world scientific community has united and faster than ever before found the vaccine, after we have seen so many presses of staff that the average cracklet in Croatia can be imitated by Minister Beros in the middle of the night, after we have all mastered the concepts of Delta, mutations, PCR, antigens, after all that, the Minister of Health and Prime Minister still manage to remain children's amazement over the numbers of the sick and the dead. Yet their astonishment should not surprise us. Since the pandemic and headquarters, and since Minister Berosa's appointment has been justified by the prime minister's alleged capacity to care for the public health of the nation at that time, we have seen failures, confusion, smutness, then double standards, privileged groups and individuals, lack of consistency and lack of competence. However, since listing all of the above would far exceed the allowed time for a speech on behalf of the club in the Croatian Parliament, I will focus on the last period. For the start of the report, it is impossible to find the number of people vaccinated from 1 June to 31 August. I must admit that at first I was surprised by this, as Minister Beros and Prime Minister Plenkovic yesterday morning numbered the newly ill and dead, but then it occurred to me, so of course it doesn't say which number of people were vaccinated because that number would show in full all the failures of this headquarters, this ministry and the government in battle with the pandemic. Croatia currently has only 42.6% of the population fully vaccinated against Covida-19. The number of administered doses of vaccines since June has been in continuous decline. And what do the Prime Minister and the Minister do? They wait every morning and wonder. And not only that, they're still making crazy non-consistent regulations, so by quoting Mr. Spray from the day before yesterday, when a man sees some controversial, non-supervisive and illogical measures, it's a wonder that no one is following epidemiological measures, and it's even greater wonder that the vaccine and the few people that have been vaccinated. The indignation has now sparked a decision that those who are over Covid without testing or vaccination can enter hospitals and social care institutions with a medical certificate worth a year from getting over, but if they want to go to a concert or any other event, then they need a European Covid certificate worth only 6 months. Namely, with the completion of testing or vaccination of confirmation of hospital illness, it was introduced precisely because there are risk patients who could be life-threatening. And there's nothing to object to. At the same time, we are taught that the level of immunity over time is dropping and that the virus will be more likely to be infected and transmitted by the one that Covid got over a year ago than the one who got over him six months ago. There's also nothing controversial, but then I guess it makes sense that the stricter rule is more valid for hospitals than for concerts if, for some unknown reason, the same rule can't apply to all the same. But now it turns out that the crisis headquarters is more concerned about whether young and healthy people will get infected at the concert than the old and sick people at Hematology at Rebro Hospital. In addition to that, controversial, indivisible and illogical measures in the scientific advice of the Government that calls us to be given to people whose statements I am Prime Minister and again marveled at and who regularly question the scientifically justified danger of Covid and also the scientific usefulness of the vaccine. While the prime minister and minister of wonder are experiencing disinformation in public space and some of their scientific advice is being relied on by populists in the daily harvest of cheap political points, which gives us the opportunity to listen in the Croatian Parliament in the morning. Its role models do not see and reject its own political responsibility for the public health situation in the Republic of Croatia. And it's best read through two numbers. One is 42.6 defeating the percentage of vaccinated in Croatia. The second is 8,829 defeating and tragic death toll. The first figure pushes us to the very bottom of the country's scale by the number of vaccinated, and the second to the very top of the countries by the number of deceased per million inhabitants. Those countries that are just the opposite of us at the top of a scale by the number of vaccinated and at the bottom of a scale by the number of deaths in the last months, abolishing all measures. And you know what's going on, their numbers are growing. Sometimes, as in Singapore, the numbers of new people are growing really crazy because unfortunately and vaccinated people can get infected and the vaccines can carry the virus, of course less than unvaccinated but when you have such a fast-growing variant as Delta, you will certainly have a high number of new people and also in countries with the highest vaccination. But there's one key difference, they don't increase their hospitalized numbers, and more importantly their numbers don't grow dead. On the other hand, we've got Covid's departments spreading one more time and they're filling up again. Look at today's news from the Jordanian. Full Covid departments involve many patients on respirators, exhausted medical staff and high death rates. For example, in neighbouring Serbia, which has almost identical population fission and is now breaking records in the number of newly ills, and given this miserable fissure and hospitalized huge proportion of all those patients who end up on the respirator also die. At the same time full covid suits mean a significant lack of human and spatial capacity in other departments and clinics, so more sick and dead than all other diseases. Therefore, low cleavage means a high number of patients, a high number of hospitalized and high death rates from Covid-19. At the same time, low cleavage means reduced capacities of other clinics both spatial and human because full covid departments occupy the premises of other clinics and work on them by doctors and doctors of various specializations from internal gynecology, ophthalmology to psychiatry who do not treat their primary patients at the time. Low cleavage, unfortunately, means introducing a variety of restrictions and measures to try to keep the epidemiological situation under control. High fissure means that covid has become a more severe virosis that we can learn to live with, something that we share at concerts, dinners and theatre shows. High fissure also means graduate, travel, open clubs and sports games. High cleavage means life very much like it before. It has been observed that the population has high confidence in its leadership in countries with high fissure. In countries with low fissure and trust is on low branches, which is actually not strange because how to believe the leadership that is in a situation where only 42.6% of people who are vaccinated are miraculously surprised by the high number of newly ill and dead and do not see a single trace of their own responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63086	Next is the debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS and RF, Honorary Representative Željko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63087	Dear Vice President, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Before I go into debate, I want to point out that I deny, do not deny the existence of the virus, I do not want to convince anyone not to be vaccinated, I am not against the scientificly established and logical measures to prevent this pandemic. But I, as a national representative, as someone who comes from rural areas, from a small town where we still discuss and socialize, have not reached this scientific level of technology or civilization that we don't know who our neighbor is in our neighbor's apartment, so we talk about both good and bad. What I'm going to discuss is exactly what the citizens are, and to remind you of the purpose is that the citizens who elected us here to discuss on behalf of them and their problems, not to court anyone at their job, their boss or I don't know who, I have no one to talk to and I want to question all situations relating to the state and security of the Croatian people. After a recent free speech where I was speaking on this subject, I had heard from many doctors and people of various professions about all this. You can see that there are people who don't have the courage to expose themselves to chicane, I know that I'm going to be exposed to giggling after my discussions, because they're afraid for their existence. However, it is my job as an agent in HS to question everything about the pandemic, solutions, problems and measures. Today we have found that the virus has been scientifically identified as being transmitted both vaccinated and unvaccinated, unfortunately we don't know to what extent, but the fact is that they carry it. I am sorry that many in the Republic of Croatia are being coerced into vaccination by indirect measures. Vaccination should be a free decision of every citizen of the Republic of Croatia. Art. 23. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is the only thing that prevents this government from passing a mandatory vaccination law because it says no one can be forced into experimental treatment. - Mrs. Crescent. Markotic, Dr. At the beginning of the pandemic, Markotic said it took 5 years for the vaccine, and then it decreased. It is clear to all of us that this is an experimental vaccine and that this is the only condition why the law cannot be passed. You can kill me all you want, but that's right. Unfortunately, the experiment is being conducted, we don't know what side effects there will be, whether they will be, whether God will give them away, God will give them away. Young people, it's those who get over covid with the easiest clinical image, and it's pretty clear that getting over it is one of the best protections from this virus. But why do we force some young people to, I have to call it that because many people are inoculating so that they can function freely in college. Many truck drivers are inoculating themselves so that they can cross the border without being harassed by anyone, and they don't practically leave the cabin. I talk to these people, I don't say this by heart, I didn't make up a story, they're people who face it. I am sorry that today the minister did not talk about complications or even the fatal outcomes of those who were vaccinated with two doses or those who were vaccinated, who experienced complications after the first dose. I have friends and acquaintances like that who don't feel well after the second dose, and they don't feel well today, and they understand why it is. But we know that every vaccine carries a risk, but we need to talk about it, we need to talk to the Croatian nation about what the advantage is, which is minus and what people have experienced that have been vaccinated. Mr. Lauc isn't anyone, I'm sorry he's trying to belittle him, the man's a prominent scientist and I think he's got something to say about this pandemic. The one who says he doesn't have a mr. The Bucharest I think... You said, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] I mean, I'm sorry, I'm sorry if I heard wrong, but I think the man made a public announcement, and they didn't really deny him about it. The second thing, when the headquarters delivers a report on the deceased, remember the black chronicle and it's called N.N. committed a crime such as that 43 years old, 53 years old, 23 years old. And here it's said here in KBC Split's person in '31, '34, so many people who are going to read you know not everyone is so written that they're looking at this point, why in this way, at least to me it looks like, they're trying to get people to know that young people died. Why don't we write that these people died that they were 87, 8, 9 years old. Let's be realistic. It will help people decide whether to vaccinate or not. It's statistics that are irrefutable. The numbers are here. A range of 62 to 69 means 82% of the people in the risk group were not vaccinated. No, we're not working to vaccinate those who are in risk groups, who have various diseases that draw with them, but now we've put pressure on young people. So you can nod your heads, you can kill me. You can kill me, my son's inoculated, I'm not happy with it just to work in college, many are. A lot of people are like that, and you say that's not true. Why, why are we doing this? Because we can't pass the law. It's my decision whether I'm gonna be inoculated or not, and I don't want to tell anyone, don't be vaccinated. Everyone has their own head and decides about their own head. And let us not forbid people to question whether they have doubts or perhaps don't know anything about something, so there are both institutions and scientists and those who need to explain it in an accessible way that everyone understands. Not all citizens of this country are academic citizens. People don't know basics, we still have illiterate people, we end up in high school with kids who don't know the multiplication table and can't read. At the same time, the measures that make it difficult for us to access treatment will be based on the analysis published by professor. Oreshkovic, due to an increase in the mortality of three major tumours, causes the death of about 3,000 people, which will be more than those who died of the pandemic. The fact that our health care system saved our lives. When you try to do a search regularly, it takes forever. By the time you execute one, the other, the third, the fourth goes through the whole circle more to you first on account of the 100 obstacles that have been made. Unfortunately, this pandemic has also led to price rampage. Everything went wild, those who are rich will be even richer, and those who are poor they will soon be hungry, soon to be hungry. Believe me, that's how I'm going to talk about a subject like that in free speech now, so you'll see where it all got us. I know that it is not easy for the minister, if there were pressure from the EU, the World Health Organization, the public, us MPs, but it would be good to be as real as possible, it would be good to tell people what's going on during the vaccination if they had the right information. People when they begin to suspect, and many measures of headquarters that were illogical that the virus started at 10 o'clock in the evening, so it has to be closed and those that I don't now have led to people's suspicions. The illogical measures of the headquarters have just led to this and to question and simply to believe neither the headquarters nor the Government of the Republic of Croatia, nor the medicine that should be the first to say what should be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63088	Now we're going to temporarily interrupt this point because we have to go to the point of view at 13 o'clock, We're done taking a stand. We're continuing with the previous agenda. On behalf of the Social Democrats Club, respected representative Eric Fabianic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63090	Dear Vice President, distinguished ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a report on the effects of the public protection implementing measures against Covid for the period from 1. 6 to 31. 8. Since we last this pandemic, this is one of the best reporting periods, it's a fact because of the few patients we had during that period, and it has allowed us to do the tourist season. The fact is that September here we can all agree is not during this reporting period. But also what isn't in this reporting period, which is the question that we haven't achieved those vaccination targets before the beginning of the season that we've set ourselves. So, for example. At the end of August of the last two weeks in Split-Dalmatia County, we have 782 newly ill. As many as 48 of them, unfortunately, have passed away. Health institutions have somewhat returned to the regular functioning regime, so what would be said is a regular way of working. That comes from this report. But we also have an extension which is related to both vaccination and COvid certification are included in the pharmacy which is good. But despite everything that has been stated as measures implemented during this reporting period, unfortunately the volume of vaccines in the Republic of Croatia is worse than we are only Romania and Bulgaria. Why do we have that fiasco? Why are we among the last in Europe? We have here in this fact report, but the fact that they can be interpreted in different ways. One possible reason is that people have not been vaccinated because they have lost confidence in the system. The system in particular is, without further ado, the Government which manages this crisis situation. And why is there a mistrust? Now we're going out, unfortunately, this reporting period that's not so bad when we're talking about facts. But those facts, as I said, also show high, unfortunately, mortality. So, in January, we launched a campaign, everyone wanted to be vaccinated, but the vaccine wasn't as much as we were holding on to our position within the European Union, that is, the relationship and familiarity that our prime minister has in the European Union. And there was no order in the system. We started, we had our first scandals where journalists, the media found out how and who vaccinated over the line and over the link. And then it's created as much as it's responsible for whether it's at a particular hospital or a place where vaccination can be done, it's also led to a certain, unfortunately, mistrust in the system itself. Then the vaccination system that was supposed to go through the digital system fell, through it at the beginning we had only 9.7% split without entering the competences of whoever was doing that application that worked is but perhaps too late. And another thing we have is the part that's working on the headquarters itself, which is more where the piar campaign de facto was more focused on the very propaganda of headquarters than on propaganda for people to split. And then we've got a little scandal with one Pear Agency like we haven't learned anything from Fimi Media, unfortunately. It would have been much better if that money had been really focused on a campaign that was tailored to our citizens. So it wasn't enough to make a copy of the European campaign, where it says, "Think of others, vaccinate." So, some waist said maybe you should have done something different. And if we've been copying something just possibly translated into Croatian then it shouldn't have paid too much. If we did something else tailored to our needs, then that cost would eventually be justified. There's one thing, and that's a question, so let's compare a little with the others. So how is it that in other European countries the volume of vaccination is slightly larger? What reason is that? So there may be more reason, and above all, the trust that citizens may have in their systems. And so we have the same thing that might be very painful and the question is how could it be done better, but the fact is that when we had the headquarters to take certain measures we had a certain fluidity in their interpretation not now entering some wrong examples where something could be done with 100 people, something couldn't be 100 people, so there were those various cases we had during the summer events. The fact is that we are now paying for the inaction for the tourist season anyway. Unfortunately, the figures are still high and worrying that we will continue to burden the health system in the near future, which is not good, because we all want to go back to what might be normal, even if it was called a new normal. I come from the county with the strongest volume of vaccination in Croatia and far from the fact that this system cannot be better, but must be better. Now the question is how do we do it, because what we have, we have one report, but from that report, we have no conclusion on how to proceed. The weaknesses that existed throughout this summer season have not been analysed, and during this season, I am not sure that we have prepared enough for the autumn that may be fatal to us. This is essentially not required of the report. But I want to encourage a debate to see what and how we will continue, because the risk exists independently of the foreign pay phone or the assembly room in which we are sitting, and of course we should expect solutions, solutions that unfortunately are not available. And that'll put the economy at risk, first of all, and let's just remember the economy isn't just tourism. The anger is chasing me as much as it is, which is the share of tourism from GDP in the Republic of Croatia. For the next year and for everything to be normal just because of this non-reding of Croatia, especially in the coastal area, it is very important that we have got tourists who perhaps by the year will unfortunately be caused by some different situation and lose. I'll remind you again that we need to be serious. There is no politicizing on these things, and therefore I will remind you of the fatal politicization of our Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, who has already said that on May 26th, the man said in 2020 that we won the crown. If we won the Crown of 2020 on May 26th, then a year and a few months ago, then I wonder why we're reading this report? Why are we reading this report? Now, there's one more thing that is, I'm putting in a questionnaire, I'm not going with some malignant thesis, but the fact is, in the Republic of Croatia, the mortality of the crown is very high. Of course I can't politically interpret it. This must be interpreted by the waist, but it would be good if the waist revealed it to us. Here's your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63091	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Dear Stipan Sashlin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63092	Dear Mr. Vice President, Article 238 has been injured. A colleague has already been here for 10, 15 minutes, a parliamentary representative does not wear a protective mask and really affects the health of all of us. I don't know if it speaks of how credible we are, how much in this House do we respect or don't respect these measures ourselves? I really don't know if that... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63093	You're right. I'm asking you to put on a mask. Followed by the Club of Representatives of HSLS and Reformers. Dear Darko Klasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63094	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished ministers with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. Freedom, right to choice, common sense, affected mentality, no obligation, light measures, balancing, opening realism, victory, festivals of words that we can often hear in public space sometimes from leading state authorities. Saying them should remember today's number of 8000 847 of our deceased citizens with a tendency to further grow the black number of dead by Covida-19, a number within which each of us certainly knows someone from its environment. The seriousness of this number can only be described as the number of deaths in our Homeland War where a total of 15 thousand 970 inhabitants of our country died, and today it means a year and a half of this epidemic we are approaching the numbers of nearly 10,000 deceased citizens. For months now, communication has been present in public space, which at the very least contradictoryly banalises the danger of Covid, leads to further confusion of our citizens, thereby causing direct damage to Croatia's struggle with this pandemic. It is precisely public communication that politicians in this House should be responsible and based on scientific evidence because, in addition to their responsibility for their and our families' health, our public advances should be responsible for the citizens who need to send messages based on facts because they are often confused with contradictory information that comes primarily from people outside the health profession. I remind you, too, well-respected colleagues, especially citizens, that doctors as the most appropriate in this situation are vaccinated in an extremely high proportion, and when the vaccinated doctors are counted by those who have acquired immunity by means of the disease, we get a percentage of even 95% of the vaccinated doctors in the Republic of Croatia. And on the Internet... you will also read often the views of experts on this pandemic, which were mainly studied in the portals and which apparently affect this epidemic with their aggressive performances and this is not only evident in Croatia, at the global level. If such an approach is relevant, then does that mean that maybe I, who have the permission of a pilot... of a system that I've been trained on my personal computer, on a flaismulator that I can get on a plane tomorrow and pilot Erbason with 150 passengers? Because by computer simulation, I'm competent. You can actually think if that's the case. Do we have to stop at the red? Can we drive a car without permission? Why don't we also ask for the right to freedom? No, because that's how we directly endanger other people's lives and health. I was stupid and I didn't vaccinate often is the first sentence of a patient who didn't vaccinate, and they end up in our hospital for complications caused by this virus. The best example is this anaesthesiologist from Split who literally said what the first patient who was in... was able to say to her when he woke up from a coma. We're also talking about who's responsible for the weak interest in vaccination. Part of it is hidden behind unconsistent communication and occasional double standards that were present in the highest institutions, so let us be honest in this high home. Unlike Western European countries for which all research shows that trust in institutions is high, Croatia is below 10%. It's certainly not just the product of the current government. It's a situation where we in our country have a whole series of reasons why there's been mistrust in institutions. One of them is that we are developing institutions for a short time, we cannot compare with countries like the UK. Unfortunately, we can compare ourselves only to some close countries, and they stand badly on this infamous list. The possibility of Covid infection, as well as the severity of the disease itself, is related to personal compatibility, most of which depends on the effects of the disease itself. I personally know younger people who have had a particularly difficult form of disease, but also people of older age who suffer from a series of chronic illnesses who have passed through relatively easily with a clinical picture. Unfortunately, some have passed away. Any obligation to impose sanctions should be a final measure when we as a society do not see another way out, and we are all at risk. The task is to provide each individual with free vaccination to reduce the possibility of an eruptional epidemic that occurred in Italy and Portugal last year and to enable the functioning of health and the economy, as this is primarily the public health objective. Because obviously we're gonna be fighting this virus for a long time. We need to keep our hospital facilities safe so we can treat other diseases. Unfortunately, our intensive care and anesthesiologists are the most affected here. It's up to them, in fact, to the whole hospital program. That is why it is a key personal responsibility because coercion promotes the mistrust of citizens, the introduction of discord in society, and at the end of the day, the situation makes it even more difficult. As liberals, we defend every Croatian citizen's right to a personal choice whether to vaccinate or not. But we also defend the personal freedom of every person who must always follow personal responsibility for his actions and consequences. If you choose not to vaccinate, you become and agree to carry the costs of treatment yourself tomorrow. It's actually supposed to be access to this epidemic. Health care is a superseded topic and the public system is of vital interest to citizens and let us not make politics out of it and further confuse these confused citizens. Here's thank you all for everything, for listening and for vaccination.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63095	The following are individual debates. The first is the esteemed Ivan Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63096	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, Your Honor. I'm sorry. [[Intruder: Here for the pay phone.]] That's where I thought. I was going to cut the time and stay there. I will naturally, as a doctor, primarily appeal to vaccination and talk about vaccination. Without any irony here there are also parliamentary representatives and advocates who are philosophers, who are theologians and who speak out of their cancerous therefore and about the concept of freedom. However, the debate on vaccination, therefore, of people who are resolutely opposed to vaccination, says they do not know what is inside the vaccine. But on the other hand, they believe that they will be helped by a veterinary agent against parasites, and they think that the chip is being found out through a cell phone that actually stores all the data that they are doing, where they are, what they're saying, believes that the vaccine is causing sterileness, that pregnant women should not at all be vaccinated by rejecting such scientific research that shows exactly the opposite, so also mentions a famous study related to 700 thousand abortions that do not have any scientific coverage. In addition, they are convinced that the vaccine is even unquality, that it does not protect against the coronary virus, so it is mentioned that Israel is an example of it, not at all, in the sense that it is different strains, so it is mentioned that the PCR test is a common fraud, so it could be heard a few days ago that it damages the mucous membrane in the nose, so it should not be used. So the difference between a fast antigen and a PCR test is huge, probably with false positive results with a fast antigen test is far, far greater than the PCR test. And in the end, there's a hell of a plan for rich people to create genocide, bring the population to the golden billion, wondering why someone would want to change the world in which they can have everything they want for a world where they can have nothing in which they're completely blocked. When you talk to unvaccinated people, you get different answers. It all comes down to the fact that there's no trust in the vaccine. They are called for a critical opinion, they do not believe in official information that they are further checking. Most often these checks are via Facebook, Instagram, Twitter or Youtube shows. If social networks are trying to limit anti-Vaxer profiles, unfortunately a number of fake doctors, suspected experts, contested authorities that offer alternative conspiracy theories, are artificially playing on a map of non-understanding science and technology of ordinary people and interestingly, one quote from the director of the Imran Ahmed Digital Hate Centre: “A small group of individuals who do not have relevant medical knowledge for their own interests abuse social platforms in order to falsely address threats and spread misinformation about vaccine safety.” Anti-Vax Watch monitored two social networks of 820 thousand posts, 65% therefore, 2/3 of anti-Vaxer promotions worldwide comes from only 12 individuals and organizations that earn millions on the placement of such products. Another short and Ivermectin, therefore, is promoted as a way of treatment, so there were also certain experts from theologians to doctors who called for Croatia to be used. For a time in India, this product was applied. However, the American Food and Medicinal Products Agency, when it took serious proportions in the United States, sent a strong message – you are not a horse or a cow – and warned of the harmfulness of Ivermectin at higher doses for people. In Croatia, our citizens can be vaccinated without prior notice. It's been going on since before summer. I can even choose in principle and type of vaccine. In the middle of September, it was only possible in Germany without prior notice. The amounts mentioned are for testing. In Germany, 3.5 billion euros have been spent for now, and now Germany is announcing a denial of free testing and can also be discussed. But it's all going in this direction that in an indirect way those young people of healthy people who don't see this concept of solidarity as something that should encourage them to be vaccinated, so on these other indirect methods to increase the vaccination. It's time for the seasonal flu. I'd invite everyone to split against the flu and the crown. And in the end, I'd end up. I'd like to see soon the situation in Croatia as in Sweden, where on air lines, say between... and Stockholm no longer wear masks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63097	We have a replica, the esteemed representative Ivan Kirin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63098	Honorable Vice President, Your Honor, Your Honor. We've heard a lot of critical rational but also pausal comments. Opponents of vaccination must be jeopardizing their health primarily, but we must consider it their freedom. But no one has the right to endanger other people's health and life. It's life in the community. The measures must be such that social contacts are controlled by those who will endanger their loved ones, for no one can have such freedom and the right to endanger the neighbor in any way. At one KB respiratory centre, at one point, all patients who were treated or were on or were on a respirator were unvaccinated. Please comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63099	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63100	Thank you, Vice President. Dear counterpart Kirin, therefore, the question of how to increase the rate of fissure is a question that all states are asking. So, Germany is about 10% more split than we are. According to the Institute, Robert Koch does not even need to introduce mandatory vaccination to calculate with delta soy during this winter because only 10%, up to 10%, there are those who do not want to be vaccinated at any cost. So we have a number of people who are indecisive to whom adequate information should be provided or, as counterpart Maric said, provide specific counselling for certain groups. We know at this point that there are certain subcultural groups in the Republic of Croatia that refuse vaccination in the larger percentage. Geographically there are differences, so Istria and Croatia Primorje are better split than Dalmatia. So, constantly looking for new ways to improve fissure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63101	Next replica, the respected representative of Ante Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63102	Thank you, Vice President. You are a psychiatrist and we know that the pandemic has affected both psychological conditions and for the sake of constipation and social distance and lack of socialization, fear and others. I believe you're also following the world's trends and global health articles on this subject. How truly should we be concerned as a nation to increase mental disorders especially in young people caused by this pandemic? And is the Croatian health system ready to increase the number of psychological assistance that may be waiting for us in the future? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63103	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63104	Dear colleague Bacic, I would say that the mental health health system at this time of the Covid epidemic has made a kind of reform within. We have had great support since the very beginning and from the Ministry of Health and from the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance. There are acute and short-term consequences that have repercusions to mental health. What you can definitely see and this is an increase of depressing especially anxiety problems by taking into account the situation that we, apart from the Covid epidemic, have had two serious earthquakes in Zagreb and in the Banovina area. So it certainly has consequences for mental health and there is therefore a difference. Of course, there is a much better situation in Zagreb than in remote areas, more remote places than larger cities, and that is something that should certainly be improved and thought of mental health in the time of the Covid epidemic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63105	Followed by the replica of the esteemed representative of Ljubica Maksimchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63106	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor. A colleague will be aware that the responsibility of each individual, or each of us here, is the key to the fight against the pandemic. Our health system is responsible and well handled in this Covid crisis, but here is part of it that you have answered Bačić's question and what is the mental health of the nation and the special reference to addicts in this pandemic of Covid.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63107	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63108	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Maksimchuk, this is in some way a follow-up to the question referred to by counterpart Bačić, so the addictions are definitely on the rise especially in consumption if we are talking about illegal substances, cannabinoids and stimulants. Of course, the many risk factors that have contributed to this, therefore, to the issue of isolation, anti-social isolation measures are prevention measures for the possible occurrence of certain mental disorders. It is unfortunately the number of those who have increased alcohol consumption, various illegal drugs. But what's extremely important, so these are gambling addiction issues, so where the gambling directors adapted very quickly and offered on-line models, and then someone should no longer have to watch for themselves whether someone would see him when he entered the casino than he could from his computer or cell phone. So there are problems and problems I hope that as a system we can do well.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63109	Followed by a replica of respected MPs Majda Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63110	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Mr. Celic, let us remember that in the previous term of this government, salaries and nurses have increased by 20% in total. At this time of the pandemic and covid crisis, a decision was made to increase 10% on the basic salary for all health and social workers and working on covid departments. The data I have from the field of the Primorje-Gorski County is that there is absolutely no problem with the top-of-the-line frame on the covid departments, among other things, because of what your experiences are and how you comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63111	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63112	Dear fellow Buric, here I am saying, as within the health system regarding mental health, a certain reform has been made. There was never a single moment that there was not enough medical staff or doctors, any nurses and technicians and other people working in the health system. The fact is, wages are up. We can always say from some personal perspective everyone would like us to have bigger salaries, but health pay is way above average. Here's an example. So my salary at the hospital is higher than my pay off duty, so I'm picking out a hospital salary. So we can speak definitely, the wages are constantly growing, the salaries have been growing in healthcare more than 20% over the past four years, and for those people who have worked on the covid departments there have been certain additions.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63113	The next replica, respected Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63114	The esteemed colleague in the report is particularly marked. The worst data is about the high level of deaths. Every two, three days one bus dead from covid. And other information about low cleavage. At first, you've been great at detecting, counting all the nonsense that's being spoken about inoculation. The only real powerful tool in the fight against this pandemic, but now the question is, if that's the case, if we all know what the government has done to increase the number of splits in this country. I can agree with you that there are differences in mentality. You mentioned places, etc. At the board meeting, we even heard that the communists were guilty because it was a low fissure in the post communist countries that it was so, etc. I do not believe that Croats are neither dumber, nor madr, nor more primitive than they are Swedishs, and I believe that there is a way for citizens to be motivated in a quality way by greater fissure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63115	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63116	Dear Representative Vidovic, these two items, so the rate of fissure and the number of deaths, of course, are in direct interaction and these are two variables that we cannot be satisfied with. From the very beginning, the Republic of Croatia has provided sufficient protection equipment for hospitals that have cared for covid positive patients. As soon as the circumstances allowed, we had enough doses of vaccines. Now we have extra vaccines. We expect more people to decide on vaccination. So this one group of indecisive ones. The campaign “Think of Others – Vaccinate!” is a campaign that has given its results, but it is necessary to look for new models in which to first reach young healthy people. There are enough elderly people who have not been vaccinated, but still a significantly larger group of those who have been vaccinated in that group with certain somatic complications.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63117	Next is the replica of the respected Ivana Posavec-Krivec.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63118	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear fellow Cellic, I will agree with you today in your debate, especially with the fact that we are working together to be like Sweden. But I'm not sure that Sweden is exactly the best example when we talk about vaccination and covid and prevention of further spread of covids. What I am interested in here today is your expert opinion on the third dose of vaccines, on how fast and how dynamic we should approach the third dose, but also on what is being prepared, which is, in fact, the vaccination of children over 12 years of age. We all know that one registered vaccine for children is under the age of 18 or over 12 years and that it should be vaccinated under strictly defined conditions when they are in chronic diseases or when they live with chroniclers. What we can expect in Croatia is whether it will be “Think of Others, Vaccinate Children!” or be “Think of Yourself”.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63119	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63120	Dear Representative Posavec – The culprit for the third dose as well as for everything else I trust the profession, I am not competent enough to say I need to be vaccinated with a third dose. But if the recommendation comes from the Croatian Institute of Public Health, I'll be the first to vaccinate with a third dose. When I spoke about the post communist countries briefly on the Health Committee, so it's not the only variable. But if we compare with a few exceptions, then you can see, so much greater is this health enlightenment and that this shift from mandatory vaccination to optional vaccination has not yielded such results as in Scandinavian countries. As far as Sweden is concerned, you mean the beginning, I agree with you. But if we look at Scandinavian countries, there's no need to wear masks anymore if you travel from Denmark to Norway, Sweden. This was an illustration of Twitter, so I mentioned Sweden.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63121	Next replica, the esteemed Nino Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63122	Your Honor, this information and the thesis on post-Communist countries can be interpreted epidemiologically as this. People who have survived Communism have been vaccinated by totalitarianism and their antibodies react much faster and ring some bells in their ears and have experienced a very well-experienced experiment, so-called experiment. A scientific socialism on its back that has shown itself in practice. The problem is that all the time, the science and the waist that are full of your mouth, and the waist are Luc Montagnier Nobel Prize Virologist, the profession is John Ioannidis of Stanford, the largest epidemiologist in the world that you would have declared here as an antivaxer, an ignorant man or someone who would take horse medicines. It's not a simple thing. This is not a story where, on the one hand, he takes horse medicines, an illiterate antivaxer, and on the other hand, Minister Beros, and the headquarters and you, but the situation is much more complex. So don't call on a profession where you don't have the basis for a true profession.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63123	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63124	Dear colleague Rasudiæ was very happy to read you while you were columnist on the Evening List because you started well and I was happy with this first part of your debate. As far as your interrogation of world experts is concerned, we can now compete on who's the greatest scientist. But what definitely exists is a consensus of the scientific profession on how effective there are people who have a number of scientific articles that tell you that the MMR vaccine causes autism or that the vaccine against the group causes infertility, these are highly quoted scientists. But when you see that from 100 scientists 3 on one, 97 on the other, I believe that even though you come from the humanist part, you'll still believe more what 97 says than 3 if you don't now take a philosophical part of the question about something else.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63125	The next replica is the respected Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63126	Thank you very much. My dear colleague, you spoke of a large number of people who believe that vaccination is both pandemics, chipping, conspiracy theories, etc. In the 11th month of 2020, a survey was carried out that 45% of our citizens said they were not going to be vaccinated. Surely, however, not all antivaxers are among them. Among them are people who have certain dilemmas, and questions, fears, and such ones should certainly be educated. There are those in the health system. We are the first line of defense and of course we need to be as split as possible. Regarding what I was saying and what else I'm going to say about education in the health system, do you have any information on whether there were structured educations in line with that letter from the Ministry of Health at your facility? How many of those educations were there? Did the workers respond, and was there any effect on these educations? Is there a vaccine after that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63127	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63128	Dear Representative Maric, thank you for that question. So we also organized education for our employees. But we're organized as a hospital, okay we're a specific hospital where the duration of hospital treatment is longer. We've arranged a vaccination against Covida-19 for patients who want it who are hospitalized for various mental problems. So the ones from the hospital and outside the hospital, therefore, in collaboration with the House of Health Zagreb, the west, and it worked perfectly. So each time it would be numbers somewhere around 100, 150. We also organized teaching and enquiries from the Ministry of Health and Education and these educations were very well attended. They were mostly going on-line so I could say that it had an effect.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63129	And the last replica of the esteemed Katica Glamuzina.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63130	Thank you. When we talk about Covid's certificates they can therefore be obtained in three ways, either in the short term based on a negative test, or in the longer term based on vaccination or on a PCR test. However, until the very occurrence of Covid, doctors rarely sent patients with an antigenic test manual. A patient who thus established the existence of a virus that is infected and who today cannot or ultimately will not receive a Covid certificate. What is your proposal for a solution to a fellow minister of such a problem?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63131	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63132	Dear Representative Glamuzina, I think Representative Selak Rasudiæ called it a very nice administrative covid. So we as a Member State of the European Union must accept that the PCR test is a golden standard and that the issue of a digital EU Covid certificate is related to the PCR test. The fact that there were a number of people who went to the Infectious Diseases Clinic there was a positive rapid antigen test and that was enough evidence that they had Covida-19. They didn't take the PCR test, now it's changed and I can't get that digital EU certificate. In this sense, this exception was made for entering a health care facility so that a family doctor could issue a certificate so that a person has no problem if she needs some kind of non-emergency procedure for which he enters a health care facility. I would briefly say that rule of 3G, which is the president of the World Doctors' Association, requires that it be 2G so that you enter restaurants only if you are vaccinated or only if you are over it. So not accepting testing is these differences in attitudes between medics and people who view them as caterers in a different way.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63133	Time. Next is an individual discussion of Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63134	This debate, in which the superstition is to be proved by promoting vaccines on one side or by deplaceing anyone who even asks questions as anti-vaxers, does not interest me at all. So I'm interested in something else entirely. Thus, modern doctrine and modern approach to the patient implies informed consent. Minister Beroš knows this very well, unlike an older approach he has failed, which is called paternalism and he implies that the doctor himself decides what is best for you and in this sense you have the right to censor certain information. In modern medicine, we felt that we had overcome this approach and that we now have the right to dialogue with doctors in terms of informed consent. However, this pandemic has shown something completely different. She's shown that she's in a great deal of paternalism. Why do I say that? So let's say, for example, this key information that I communicated a few days ago and now, which is that the vaccine doesn't protect 100 percent of the death of our public is unknown. My parents who have been vaccinated and all the other citizens who have been vaccinated are unknown. Because the information publicly advertised is completely different, and this vaccine has been proven to protect against death. To be specific, we said protection not 100%. We thought it would be over 95% from the beginning, but it's less than, like, 80%. However, it protects proven against the most severe forms of disease and death. Let's use it, it could have been different. It's Minister Berosh in the middle of last month. This data shows something else. If we only communicate such a message to our public, we directly endanger the health of our citizens, and we are contrary to the ethical treatment of modern medicine based precisely on informed consent. I will focus far from politicizing specifically on this report. Once again, no matter how many times I've been ignored by the Minister, I'm going to ask you to contact me after I've been exposed and clear up all the misunderstandings. This ignoring is very embarrassing, but it won't stop me from asking you a question and hopefully your answer. So, what's missing from this report? Some very important items are missing. There is no more detailed reference to patients who are suffering from post-covid syndrome. How many are there? How are they treated? What's their status? These are very important data for Croatian citizens. It may be even more interesting for our citizens not to mention the side effects of the vaccine. If we are dealing with the effects of implementing measures, and the measure is vaccination we must say something about side effects in the report. If you do not provide us with specific information on the side effects from which you are entitled to be surprised tomorrow by any theories about what the true composition of the vaccine is or something like that. Well, you've done this with a missing report and made it possible. So these are reports that are not high-quality and sufficient to have an excessive debate in the House, and if you want to give us the right reports here I am giving you a constructive proposal that all of them must contain. I don't even want to mention that I keep sending you parliamentary questions to the ministry regarding the covid crisis and I don't get an answer, although the legal deadline is a month, a few months, I don't know if I'm ever going to get them. If I as a representative cannot get an answer to my questions concerning the covid crisis, how can we expect Croatian citizens to have the right to the same answers. The billion we're likely to throw away because we misjudged how many vaccines we need, and we're running wide into the chest and donate money we don't have in hundreds of thousands of doses remains a question for our economic analysts in this government. We thought we didn't have enough, and it looks like we have both extras and money and vaccines. I'll close with one detail. In this report, an unknown Croatian language is visible. It is said on this basis and based on the disease of Covid 19. In Croatian, there is only a basis. The basis exists in another language. Also listed is further unknown language when migration of content to a new platform and to another server. Content in Croatian since no living entity can migrate. Content and dog emigrate in some other languages in English. If you learn Croatian what you did not show in this report, you may also learn to communicate with the Croatian people about this crisis properly.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63135	We have a few replicas. The first one is Ivana Kekin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63136	Thank you. Dear MPs, yesterday you were quoted as saying that a quarter of those vaccinated in Croatia died of covid. Can you explain your statement because it is absolutely incorrect, false and incredibly harmful. You, when you speak, have political but also personal responsibility. Are you aware of that? And do you deliberately manipulate or do you not understand basic statistics? In both cases, it would be good to stop repeating false data about the disease that killed nearly 9,000 people in Croatia, and to clearly and loudly deny yourself and apologize to the Croatian public. I repeat, this is about your quote on yesterday's press release. There's a video, you say it in six minutes with these words.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63137	Maria Selak-Raspudic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63138	My colleague Kekin, who you think this proof is true, you make fun of me with your question. If you were going to imply that I think that a quarter of the vaccinated population is dead, you would then impute that our people are ignorant and uninformed and that they can't understand what I'm saying and that's very simple. And that I think that we literally walk across corpses because a million and 800,000 people in Croatia have been vaccinated. It's clear to you, and don't act naive. That I said something completely different that you're ignoring, which is a very important piece of information, which is that a quarter, between a quarter and a fifth, is the ones that have been vaccinated, and the covids have died. So we don't have zero covid patients, and they were vaccinated, and they died as it was in the previous reporting period. It is clear to all Croatian citizens. And you can pretend to be silly and think that I told someone that he died I don't know 400,000 Croatian citizens. Well, you've proven your right to believe. Congratulations! You'll get the medal.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63139	Time! The next replica of the esteemed colleague of the Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63140	Dear colleagues Selak-Raspadic, Mrs Kekin and this Green Left block will not get any medals. They got money for liquidity in Zagreb and then they have to be home and they have to defend the government so they don't need the Order. Here the bridge is the only obvious opposition to the ruling, the only political option, so that raises the right questions. And it's quite clear to all the well-intentioned people what you wanted to say, and these reactions on the right show that what I'm saying is true, and it won't stop me from still telling the truth here and asking questions and Minister Beros and the ruling. So, what I wanted to ask you, so how do you rule and the Staff deal with this crisis? Do we through this report have answers to questions raised by Croatian citizens and we here as parliamentary representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63141	I see there have been two injuries to the Rules of Procedure. He's the first respected Whiteman. What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63142	Dear Vice President, my colleague Grmoya has injured Article 238. By calling all of us, among other things, not opposition MPs, forgetting that it is the MOST that both HDZ and Plenkovic have thanks for being in power today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63143	Okay, it's a typical replica, so you get a warning. I'm asking you all nicely, let's not go again with those injuries, the pseudo injuries of the Rules of Procedure. Let's be constructive and talk about the measure of things. Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63144	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Parliament, so Article 238 has been injured. Disdaining all MPs in this assembly by defining in the opinion of one representative who are ruling, who is the opposition without getting into the measure of things, and it supported any data. I'm very rarely raising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but what's too much is thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63145	Yes, and you know it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. It's an expression of someone's attitude that can be like this or like that, you can either agree with it or disagree with it, so I have to give you a warning too. Now we have a reply to the replica of the respected MPs. You're the one who broke the Rules of Procedure? Are you sure about that? All right, all right. You already have two warnings. Yes, I draw your attention to that alone. I'm just distracting you! Okay. I love that people still love order, so now they will respond to the respected representative Selak-Raspadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63146	Unlike many, I take my work in the House extremely seriously and when it comes to reports that literally mean life, not only have I studied this present one, but I have compared it to the previous one. And in that sense, the key information that really gathers attention is the following. Unlike the previous period in which we have zero dead of covids who were vaccinated during this period according to this Report, we have 22.11% of covid deaths that were vaccinated with one or two doses. 14% and some percent with two doses and a little less with one dose. Instead of my colleague Kekin joining me as a doctor in correct and accurate informing Croatian citizens she underestimates and demeans them arguing that they would be able to think that I was saying that we were walking across corpses in Croatia. [[Thank you very much. We have another, colleagues Selak-Raspadić.../]] Don't be ridiculous!
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63147	My colleagues Selak-Raspudić is time if you did not know about the limited time here in the Parliament, so that is all I remind you of both the replica and the reply to the replica, etc. Dear Representative Marin Miletic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63148	Thank you very much. I mean, I have to, here's another thought. I'll ask my colleague a question, of course. I realized that my colleague Grumoja was just thinking about the Mossi and not about the other colleagues in the opposition. I really think that's what he thinks. As for my colleague, Selak-Raspudic, questions for you. So here's the minister, and I'll talk about it later. Two things. So, what about the overexperience? What exactly is the data of the people who are overly ill in the Republic of Croatia. ... has been announced if I'm not mistaken last week that several times it's stronger immunity of a person who's gotten over what's quite like this and logical thinking from a person who's even been vaccinated. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We know what's going on with Pfeiser, how the whole story falls now, so here's your question. So, do you think they're over the citizens of the Republic of Croatia let's say correctly evaluated and not differentiated in comparison, so with... Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63149	Dear Representative Selak-Raspadić, allow me. Now everybody's together. I'm running a session and you on the right and you on the left. So let me run the session and I'll watch both on time and order during the session. Here are the esteemed MPs Selak-Raspudić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63150	It's clear that my colleague Grumoia was thinking about We can, but we know how it works with them. Once they took over Zagreb, they banned all those working in the city of Zagreb from saying anything without asking the central what they should say. So, I saw that colleague Kekin was a lot of fun out here. It's nothing funny to me. My husband almost died of covid and I don't joke about things like this. And I would like you to be closer to me and to warn the citizens that and when they are vaccinated that they are not fully protected, that I can't just walk around without caution unlike you who completely deny these dangers and just propagate what your agenda is, because you think this isn't a serious scientific debate but a demonstration of believe. As for what you asked me, I really think it would be useful not only for Croatian citizens, but for the entire scientific community to get over getting involved in all statistical analyses.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63151	The next replica of Honored Representative Raukar Gamulin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63152	Dear MPs, last week in the magazine Jama, a medical journal at Lanceta level published an article presenting the results of research on 11 million people and it has been demonstrated that there are no more serious side effects for MRNA vaccines, so Pfeiser and Moderna. This is what I'm saying why? So let me ask you whether you consider it a complete information and non-exploitation of any semi-information and distorted statistics, is this a way to behave in this situation which is a threat to all citizens and citizens of this country. I'm not the one who's gonna protect headquarters because they're the most guilty of not being good at communication. However, I ask you if...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63153	Thank you. Dear representative Selak-Raspudic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63154	You have to ask those who are half-informed. I'm very careful when I bring out the data, and all the data I've been presenting, based on the government's report, not on what you here dare to do with your own partial interpretations of certain medical journals. I have based exclusively on the official information this government has given us and the shortcomings in their implementation, and one serious deficiency is indeed that the report on the effects of the measures lists vaccination as a measure, and nothing about side effects is mentioned. All countries have side effects. Some also hitchhiked some vaccines due to side effects. We don't have a word about it. Our citizens deserve all the information. It is a minimum of democratic standard that we are all subject to except those who have maintained totalitarian consciousness. And that's where I can't help.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63155	Dear Representative Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63156	Dear Vice President, the Honorable Representative Selak Rasdić when it comes to medical reports, then you have the information from 2019. Go to the Croatian Institute of Public Health and you will see. This is about a new corona of sick viral disease. You're talking about the fact that there should have been side effects in this report. So you're a scientist, go to Halmeda's site there and write you all about how to report the suspicion of a side effect, how to make a deal, numbers with the day of October 13th. So it really needs to be in this report, otherwise you won't be able to find Voi. Come on, don't be ridiculous! Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63157	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63158	Indeed, why should there be anything in this Report when we have pages like Coronavirus.hr which we remember well, for example, that public procurement and how they were awarded has not been made for them. If we have such benefits and such pages, why should we even report to the Croatian Parliament? Why is it a shame to ask a question and I think that you as a scientist would agree with me that party discipline does not make it impossible for you, that in this Report of course when we talk about vaccination because of the needs of our citizens we should also process this segment. Well, it's an important segment. If you want to convince citizens who do not want to be vaccinated, then you should provide them with this information. Everything else will justifiably be interpreted as manipulation, and then you can't blame anyone for not trusting in the Staff, for making decisions and for doing so subsequently in medicine as such. All of this is a direct consequence of your actions.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63159	The Republic also has a respected representative, Nino Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63160	You've passed the basics... Like me, you know the difference between dogmatics and something that's a scientific way of thinking and thinking. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We must defend here the right to scientific opinion, to question and to seek arguments. We must not agree to black white divisions, where on the one hand there is someone who says that the covid is only mildly starving, on his skin I felt that it is not or someone is calling on Jesus Christ to what they blaspheme, so he will tell us his simple anticovid truth. And on the other hand, it's just what Minister Beros offers us and this story, which, as scientific authority, is taken by Zoran Sprayz and quoted in the Parliament, which is a funny reaction to the mention of true science with the names of the character Montana or John Joanidis. So, the basic thing today is to defend science, to defend the scientific way of thinking from something politically declared dogmatism. And I'm curious to see how you interpret that some of the colleagues on the left who talk a lot about human rights and freedoms have proven themselves to be rummy and hygienists along with a teacher who, in this case, is Minister Beros.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63161	Thank you. Dear Representative Selak-Raspudic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63162	It's obvious if we remember their Bolshevik role models. And they felt that only a few dozen million people needed to be killed in order to achieve true communism. And this modern-day left, we know what he thinks of the people as such and the referendum initiatives. They would only prohibit asking questions except that how could it be found by the bad entrepreneurs in Croatia and then make some kind of referendum against the workers, and not God give them something like that. It is indeed a time to defend the space of freedom. Unlike many of me, it is no wonder that there are citizens who do not want to be vaccinated, nor do I urge anyone to be vaccinated, nor do I urge anyone not to be vaccinated because I am not an epidemiological or medical expert. I leave that to others. But I have the right to talk about the documents and the way they are complex, which are the subject of debate in this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63163	Thank you. The Republic also has a respected representative Posavec-Krivec.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63164	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague Selak-Raspudic. About 21. In December last year, the prime minister announced that Croatia is entering a major phase to inform the public about the need for vaccination. Then came the government's big campaign. On the 26th of last year, we all arrived very impatiently at the first shipment of 9750 doses. That's what it is, if you remember, when Mr. Capak sat down on that vaccine box to tell us that she really arrived and that up to today was spent about 3.5 million doses. By June, we had about 2 million spent doses and then spent about a million doses in the months of the season to spend half a million doses in the last 3 months. So tell me, what's the reason we have these oscillations? Is there a background for tourism and whether Croatia can financially do this [[Thank you. Dear representative...]] - To take it? [[Intruder:...Selak Rasdic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63165	So we, my guess, came to a certain percentage that is in Croatia that how many citizens want to vaccinate about 50% and then the thing slowed down. What I find worrying, especially from the economic aspect of our citizens' lives, is that we do not have the money to completely ignore the reality of our needs of vaccination and are ordered without any real arguments of a certain amount of vaccine with which we will not know what. You haven't answered my representative's question about our storage facilities. This is where you say you didn't throw any doses. Well, it depends on how to take it. You donated them. It's now a euphemism to throw away. We didn't have anywhere with them, they were too much for us, so we were giving around. I'm glad, I want to be generous, but please, given how much our citizens live at risk of poverty, given this inflation, explain to them that they have surpluses in their pockets that will share around some other countries.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63166	Thank you very much. The next debate will be the respected representative of Michel Jaksic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63167	Dear Vice President, respected ministers with a co-worker, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. At the beginning of my presentation, I will repeat something that I have already said several times on the subject of the crown and on the subject of the measures we have taken as a state, which is that our Staff, Minister Willy Beroš, with his team at the beginning began to do a very good and very professional job and surely that one part and the result and victory of HDZ in parliamentary elections has made a great contribution and he with his team. It's also visible according to the preferred result. But what had happened slowly before these parliamentary elections that something which the profession had started to do very well, at that stage was removed from the same profession, and then we began to have strange political decisions that directly affected the work of the Staff itself and the behaviour around the actions of the Staff itself. And I thought that exactly what happened back then, and what was unfortunately happening in many other situations has contributed to the fact that we have one situation that people are absolutely skeptical and towards vaccination both towards the crown and the entire system, and that it can respond to everything that the corona is obviously going to carry for some time between us. We've also discussed here several times with the intention of helping, to see if we can make some traffic lights based on which we're going to see what our frequency is, what are the measures that come with what incidence. Unfortunately, the prime minister himself has never been willing to discuss himself in this direction. And today, again, we have a situation to discuss on one side what to do with vaccination or non-vaccination, what to do with Covid's certificates, the figures have gone back to the sky, and we have no further clear plan of how we're going to set ourselves up and what will continue to grow in these numbers that will not be followed by vaccinations to function, not just economies that are too important to us, but also our daily lives. What is important to stress is that we have not used all this time because there was also no political will for reform, that we simply make the view and conclusion that we need health reform, that we want to help people who work in this health system because the crown itself in those stages of tension has shown that we need changes in the very functioning of the health system. And that's why it's nice of the government to keep sending Willy Beros, but a lot of questions are being asked when they talk about the crown and everything that it's brought between us and it's spreading to the ministries that are not only connected to the Ministry of Health because health reform needs to be approved and given to health professionals to guide it, the crown has brought between us and the state of uncertainty and the state of fear and the state of imprisonment. Today, several times in the debate mentions how our young people who were unable to attend classes and our elderly people who were imprisoned in nursing homes, but also very little we mentioned today how they were reflected and how they would reflect on the country’s economy itself. What all economic flows have triggered, inflation is among us, we are discussing the rise in the price of gasoline, we are discussing the rise in prices of other energy sources, we are discussing the growth of all other material goods that we need to use in our daily lives, and among other things it is going through that it can wait somewhere for us to turn and grow interest. It is the same thing that will bring about huge changes, which, God forbid, will ultimately bring about the economic crisis, the loss of jobs, the weight of life, and we still haven't turned to how we're going to stand up to the crown, how we're going to try to lead it to the end, and how we're finally going to have a clear direction with a clear plan, a clear analysis, how we're going to help all the citizens who have hit each other in one way or another, not just this health crisis, but now it's becoming increasingly clear and economic crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63168	We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63169	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Jaksic, you've opened a lot of issues. I'm glad you talked about this economic aspect because the health aspect still dominated here. What there is at EU level is some consensus, it is the promotion of digital and green technologies in Covid recovery, but let's say the issue of mandatory vaccination, the partial obligation of vaccination, there are diametrical opposite differences, there are certain countries where you can't ask the employee whether or not he's been vaccinated, there are certain countries that have introduced that obligation for health care, for education, so there's a whole set of different decisions which, of course, are not just strictly medical but they include much, much broader and simply if we add everything together and if we see these sinusoid waves and differences in the color of light, I think we can be satisfied and we can say that the RH is still successfully boating and successful ships in this crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63170	Dear Representative Jaksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63171	Okay, what's the question? Shall I confirm this to be a successful vessel or what? I said at the beginning of my presentation that the headquarters from the aspect of the profession had started to work very well and that all the problems had arisen the moment politics got involved. As far as this part of your debate regarding the EU and the European Commission is concerned, we are known as a state, and then it goes mostly towards the HDZ because you were most of the party's government in this country, that when Europe doesn't suit us, then we scare the citizens with it, and when we do, that's what Europe told us, and that's why we do it. So in the early stages we did everything because Europe said so, and then after the situation started to fit in a little bit, we have a situation on 30.10 last year when it was that big zoom meeting between the Prime Ministers and the EU and ministers, when Davor Bozinovic said we don't need a new lockdown because we do it much better than everyone else, so in a month we ended up in a more dramatic lockdown than the countries in Europe did a month earlier, so it's a lot like that on the vase.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63172	Thank you. The next is the replica of the respected representative Simicevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63173	I thank the vice president of HS. Your Honor, all you said was good, but I also want to say that the government and this ministry have actually done everything possible to protect Croatian citizens. We now have vaccines, we also have people who are expert in doing these things, but as you comment now that someone will not be vaccinated, okay, it's not necessarily vaccination, but we have another thing, that people who come to do a responsible job, to protect other people's health won't be tested when they go to their jobs. I mean, I can't understand that. How do you comment?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63174	Dear Representative Jaksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63175	So now we've pulled it out again because it suits us in this last part of the debate, but when the crown itself started to remember that a lot of decisions had been made and that some and ended up in the Constitutional Court, and even some experts for the Constitution interpreted that there were a lot of difficult decisions, but the public opinion prevailed that the greater interest was above all else and let's just sort of grumble. So as for mandatory vaccination, the vaccination itself, the covid confirmation of the system's functioning is clear whose responsibility it is. The greatest responsibility is from whoever has received the citizens' trust to try to assemble the government Andrej Plenkovic has succeeded and simply ahead of him is the responsibility to see how we will get out of this with the least and health and economic damage as it is before him the responsibility to see together that we from the opposition that these topics about which we can find consensus. Well, there were a lot of topics on which we found a consensus.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63176	Honorable representative of the coat of arms, Bhujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63177	Thank you, Vice President. A colleague, related to two things, so even some countries that once strongly defended the traffic lights today don't really mention it that way, some of the relevant studies show, so I was surprised, and I actually came forward because something else was even more surprising. So this is where Minister Berosch came out at the moment, but with him is the Secretary of State from the Ministry of Health Mrs. Teresa Grass, and then here's your chance to finally tell her what you had, not to say there's no one here but the Ministry of Health, and then it's all coming down. So, if you'd worked very hard with headquarters and all of them, then you'd know very well the secretary of state who's very well addressed to all the flows of the creation and response of civil protection, the MUP and all of that one, so let's give it a chance if you agree to meet Mrs. Teresa Grass, I think she deserved it very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63178	Thank you. Dear Representative Jaksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63179	Well, my missus is on the side, so I haven't seen her, even though we know each other, and I know a little bit about headquarters because I happen to be mayor, so we have a headquarters because we've been doing some correct results. But if, of all these debates, you caught on to one of my laps that I apologize to the lady, then okay, even though you didn't obviously listen to what I said. Decisions on major reforms, major changes concerning health reform and reforms of our economy have been made many times in the beginnings of the crisis, we have said that we need structural reforms of the economy because the crown has also shown our weaknesses in the economic model that we have in Croatia, do not be angry but it is difficult to expect that political decision at the end of the day will be made by Michel Jaksic or you or Mr Beros or Mrs Gras. It is clear who has to make that decision and it is clear which address I addressed my comment on, and I don't see any Andrej Plenkovic or Zdravko Marić who should then be the second instance to sit here, so for the lapus I apologize.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63180	Thank you very much. The next one will be spoken by a respected representative, Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63181	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. I'm not a doctor I can't talk about medical implications in this debate or that's what I want. I can talk about something else, which is consistency, political responsibility, responsibility in general, and I'm going to believe something and say it and in that sense please understand my debate as well. So, May 26, 2020. In Split, the president of the convicted party and the most corrupt government in Croatian history, I would dare say Master Andrej Plenkovic as a very self-loving statement and now quote "we beat the crown of my people", if you didn't know here the note was just to remind you of your colleagues and colleagues, we have already won the crown once. Now, it's very interesting when that statement falls and whose service is that statement? I'd dare say he's in the service of the choices that come. Now you see, the election's over, so here's the crown we haven't won yet. Why and how I'll let you interpret it yourself. Because it was in November and December 2020. It became clear that the reality was somewhat different, that Croatia was the worst in Europe at that time and by the number of infected and the number of deaths per 100,000 inhabitants, so I'm talking about the end of last year when I had the crown myself, so when it was really at its peak. Now, when we talk about consistency, when we talk about headquarters, when we talk about fissure, and I will remind you that we have one of the worst results of vaccinations or percentages vaccinated in the EU, we can touch the campaign a little bit, a big campaign that I've heard colleagues and colleagues from the ruling claim that they allegedly prescribed it from the EU, that all the EU dictates, which is not true by colleagues and colleagues. Such things, especially piarovic things, campaigns and so on, may be accompanied by some common lines, but must be tailored to the needs of each Member State. And the reach of our campaign was that blue badge, "Think of others, vaccinate," and what's totally wrong with me, destroys what's said in Sinj. Why? So they say that God created his beard first, so think of yourself and others, help yourself first, be responsible for yourself, and by doing so you are responsible or responsible for others. But I don't want to waste too much time there's already been said. To me, the problem of consistency is much more important because with the inconsistency of those who were to lead us in this battle, in fact, we completely destroyed our citizens' faith in institutions, and then whatever we're talking about here on the vaccine is also going to bring this into question. Let's just remember Dr. Markotic, who vaccinated her mother across the line, remember that in the media she said one thing, and then she went to mass gatherings when people were recommended to stay locked up in their homes, etc., and let's remember, also, Mr. Capak from sitting on that box with the vaccine on to what kind of statements we had to hear, so let's remind you of, or remind you of, the steps of certain members of the government's advice on covid, which are often contradictory, so in the media, people themselves who should be the most responsible to stop the spread of covids, send conflict information. And then we get to the last absurd on me, what's the certificate of covid overcoming worth? Do you see colleagues and colleagues, the virus knows the difference between a sporting event and a hospital, for example, so confirmation of overcoming if we refer to sports events, theatres, cinemas, etc. It's worth 180 days, and if we're talking about a hospital, it's worth 360 days. Now, you tell me, really, who's here having a fight with common sense, and why is one rule worth one and the other for? Because as long as it is, and as long as those who should lead the fight send messages like this, such inconsistencies, I'm afraid we won't see a higher rate of fissure, I might dare say it with the right because citizens have lost faith in these and such people.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63182	We have several replicas, the first respected representative of the Dark-Taritash. Comrade Taritash, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63183	Excuse me. Col. Hajdukovic, therefore, that we won the crown, was what everyone in Croatia knew except the crown, so it would be good if we had introduced the crown to it, but the joke aside. So what this government and Prime Minister and Minister Beroš were like sending messages to our fellow citizens not to split because it went from error to error. But now we're all aware of the mistakes, we've been through that euphoria when they were truly declared saviors of everything, we've come to some reality. At this point, we have slightly less than 9,000 dead, 9,000 people who died because of the crown, who would otherwise have lived 5, 10, and some might have lived 20-30 years. So now is the key moment, at this point we need to do something. What? If someone had a magic wand, they'd use it for sure, but the key question is what and the question is, how do we move on?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63184	Dear Representative Hajdukovic
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63185	Thank you, colleagues, for the replica. Well, unfortunately, the problem is that the pandemic, among other things, is being placed in the service of day-to-day political interests in Croatia, and the daily political interests cannot win elections against the lives of our citizens. And that's why we're reaping the results of this relationship to this problem. But colleagues of Taritash don't wonder, it's no wonder of this government that now doesn't rule, but a party that is dominant and convicted of corruption. Is that high treason? I'd say it is, and then if we're not ashamed and they don't take money that's not theirs, then what does it mean, the lives of a few people who have been sacrificed to win a triumphant victory, which is why colleagues and colleagues on this side of the assembly are constantly praised.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63186	We have the next line, colleague Hajdukovic, I would ask you to stay away from some of the expressions you used. Dear Representative Shashin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63187	Your Honor, Vice President. Dear colleague, here you have said that you will talk a little bit about consistency and political responsibility, so I would point out a few facts regarding the crown crisis in the Republic of Croatia. The fact is that Croatia is in relation to other countries in the environment, and it had really the easiest measures we can say so, so there was no curfew that was an example in Serbia where no one was allowed out of the apartment all weekend. We successfully completed the tourist season precisely thanks to such balanced measures. We have successfully created economic conditions, we have produced good economic results thanks to this tourist season and such measures, and that is the fact. We saved jobs and raised wages, the average salary in the coronary crisis. We did, or the vaccination is voluntary, on a voluntary basis, so no one forced anyone to vaccinate, although I have an opinion on it now, but that's irrelevant. There are enough amounts secured, if that's not consistency and political responsibility, I don't know what it is. [[Employed: Thank you, Your Honor, Thank you very much, Honored Representative Hajdukovic]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63188	I'm telling you about the consistency of the main communicators who need to direct the public. You say good economic conditions, so the measures that were targeted to help the small one survive, the one Đuri and Perry who is in the market and who patchs the end with the end of the first to the first with one or not employees or only employees. See, he or she didn't have time to qualify for some measures, but the multinational companies in Croatia did, so now you tell me, are we helping the economy or are we petting a fat goose neck? We've saved jobs, so if you just walk in Zagreb, and then you can take Baranja and Osijek and Slavonia, you'll see how many closed empty bars, the shops have closed down, cafes have closed down, other institutions have closed down, so tell me if they are, is that the result of successful economic measures? And as for vaccinations, of course, we can't force anyone, but the fiasco is this vaccination campaign, the fiasco, which shows the results among the worst in the EU.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63189	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63190	My colleague Hajdukovic, I don't think we have the worst scientists in the world, and moreover, in the field of epidemiology, we had a timely Immunological Institute that was a respectable institution that was unfortunately destroyed, it would now be worth a lot to us. So I can also understand that our recommendations are, for example, about immunity that is worth 12 months after getting over it, perhaps even justified and founded in science. However, what remains for me is unclear, so do we not have the right at the level of all of Croatia in accordance with the recommendations of our scientists to manage our health policy autonomously and if we say that it is 12 months that it is worth 12 months for all institutions. Do we not decide where We will and where We will not use the homage of confirmation? This is the Republic of Croatia, if it has its scientists, if it takes their opinion as relevant, so let it be valid in Croatian institutions. Is that a lot we're looking for?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63191	Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63192	Thank you very much. My colleagues Selak Rasudiæ, yes, we have great scientists, some of them are also world-renome and reputation. What kind of politicians we have on the other hand, that's another question. Just remember those announcements about the vaccine factory in Zagreb and similar nonsense we heard, unfortunately from politicians. But we've also listened to everything and I'd dare say that some of the politicians who sat in headquarters and kept giving the public conflicting information, inconsistencies, etc. Well, ma'am. The coat of arms Bujevic was also part of the professional headquarters, and now he sits in front of the political party here, so he's a politician. I don't tell you that as something bad, she does, and no one defends her, her right as any of us to deal with politics or, in my view, diminishes credibility. You know why? So, exactly what I was talking about, if the pandemic is used for day-to-day political purposes, and if politicians are sitting in such a headquarters and acting as experts, then it's really justifiable suspicion.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63193	Thank you. The next one will speak to the esteemed representative Andreja Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63194	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Assembly, dear ministers, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. In this individual debate, I'm going to touch a little bit more of what I said on behalf of the club, and that's the question of education. I already mentioned in the replica that day 15.7.2021. The Ministry of Health sent a letter to health institutions on the need to maintain education on the importance and well-being of vaccination for staff in the premises of the institution during working hours. I should say right now that it's better now in seven months than not to have sent that memo at all, but it could have happened before. Now, from 13-10 to 11 a.m., the institute was supposed to deliver reports on the education carried out, the minister didn't answer all my questions in the replica, so I'm going to repeat them. Did all health institutions have education, how many total educations were conducted, how many were averaged by institutions, who were conducting education, how many employees attended education, and how many were then vaccinated? For example, 4 trainings for a total of 148 employees have been carried out in my health care facility, all those who had not been vaccinated before, which is commendable, but after education, 30 employees in the hospital itself, perhaps one more at the Public Health Institute, so a little over 20%. Is that enough? No, obviously there's more work to be done on education. Therefore, I hope that our director, as we discussed yesterday, will organise more education, include as lecturers for hospital infections from the quality unit that has done education, also include gynecologists, I will say why, and, if necessary, other doctors, since there are a lot of prescriptions from vaccinations, a lot of dilemmas, fears by younger workers, let's say, medical nurses who are afraid to be vaccinated because they think they won't be able to become pregnant, but also the profession and science have removed that fear, so it's clear that there is no such link between vaccines and sterility. Therefore, there are defined instructions when best given, which advises the vaccine to be given to pregnant women under 50g. And so on and so forth. Therefore, other doctors should be involved depending on the questions and dilemmas of employees, so first of all the departments should ask employees who are still having dilemmas, concerns and questions about vaccination, why they do not want to be vaccinated and not only in health institutions, but also in other businesses, professions, for example, education, education, etc. And we Parliamentarians should contribute even more actively to our environments, the organisation of education. Here, I'm going to give you an example, in my midst, with no intention of me now praising myself but simply to give you an example of what can be done in my midst. So I organized a 18.9. round table for fellow citizens, an open-minded type, of course, with respect to measures, which I invited different doctors to. So I was an endocrinologist, a diabetic, an inflectologist, an epidemiologist, a family doctor, a pediatrician, and then we still had two radio shows where we added cardiologist and gynecologist. We have answered a number of questions that we face in our working environments, which our citizens, or patients, are asking us. There will be more such shows, round tables, and we will include the issue of mental health, and then I invite you, here, colleagues and colleagues, whether you are medical professions or not, to connect with healthcare professionals in your midst and organize something similar. Second, the issue of vaccination counselling against Covida-19. I have to say that I was, and in some way excited when it was published in 6.10 that at the HZJZ in Rockefeller 7 in Zagreb at the HZJZ branch, I was told to start working a vaccination counselling against Covida-19, every Saturday from 8 to 12 hours without prior procurement where citizens can only bring their medical documentation and ask questions to qualified doctors, so to ask advice on whether to vaccinate, when to vaccinate, which vaccine, etc. Of course, the question is whether it is enough once a week, how many citizens have sought advice so far, and each county should establish its own counselling centres for citizens, as there is a mental health counsellor. On the website of the Institute of Public Health can be found link, vaccination against Covida-19, most common questions and answers. In the last debate, I commended that it exists on these pages, but now I have to tell you that this link has not been updated since 9.2.2021 and then one of these accounts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63195	We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63196	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Maric, I'm sometimes bored of myself repeating things, but they say repeating is the mother of knowledge. So, before politics, I was an educator, I worked in education, or at school, and I always spoke, and especially in medicine, one kuna invested in prevention is 4, so education because education is part of prevention, is 4 kuna saved in recovery. Now, let's translate it from such a dry utilitarian dictionary, so when we talk about money into human lives. How many human lives would be saved if we had a timely education, if we had a well-organized and well-designed campaign, how much, by investing one kuna, would we save our lives?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63197	Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63198	Thank you very much. So, here, your question is on the trail of what happens all the time, but really in the debates of this guy I'm saying, it's cost-censored analysis. So it's not just a question of how much the tests cost, how much Remdisivir cost, how much the Skuffanders cost, but it's also a question of how much less hospitalized there would be, how much less dead, it's hard to speculate now whether there were not 8 or something, almost 9 thousand or maybe 4 thousand, it's hard to talk about such things, but it would certainly be that in time with education, with a quality vaccination campaign, there would certainly be more split and there would be less sick, less hospitalized, less dead, and, of course, it's all taking away the next question, and that's the availability of healthcare to all the other patients because Covid is there, but there are also other diseases, and we're only following the consequences of this inaccessibility of healthcare.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63199	The esteemed representative of Glamuzina.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63200	Thank you. counterpart Maric, speaking again about these Covid certificates, often stood out by the government and the minister and the ministry how great it is that we introduced those certificates amongst the first. I want to conclude here that this is fundamentally irrelevant because the EU countries had a deadline, the deadline to which it must be done. Why? Because it's important that all countries have this system to make the system work. So what we have, and some other country doesn't have, and then by coming here, it can't be used or we can get into that country, so it doesn't matter who had it first, it's important that by some deadline they had all the lands. And the fact that we had it first at the price of system failure may be worth the criticism because the system didn't work at first, although it went out very quickly because it didn't enter data into the central system in time, from which, here, the digital confirmation pulled those certificates. So in your opinion, wouldn't it be better if we'd waited a little while and didn't brag about the irrelevant things instead of waiting a few days and then that system really worked when we announced it?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63201	Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63202	Thank you very much for asking. So, at the very beginning, when I was talking about Covid's certificates saying it was this convenient tool that would facilitate some co-existence with the pandemic, I agree that it might have waited some time, but all the time we're actually repeating what is the pain of our system? So our system is unfortunately trom, when you want to solve something, it takes a few months, the ministries are slow and all this is going too slow. So all of these items that we've been saying, not just the question of vaccinations, campaigns, etc., so all of this had to be done long before, and then this question that you're saying was supposed to sooner or later, about Covid's confirmation wouldn't be necessary at all. And as for the mess of data input, we talked about it in detail on the previous report as well. We know what the problems were. You're being vaccinated in another country. You can't get Covid to confirm patients like that. You wanted to vaccinate, I don't know, because you were, you were vaccinated once because you got over it, you can't get Covid's confirmation again. So it took some time for the system to work out a little bit.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63203	Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63204	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS, colleague Maric. So, you've devoted a great deal of your exposure to education. When someone asks about real estate, what's at your real estate, what's the location, the location, the location. We in this report today, but we don't need it, we didn't need the report, it's absolutely clear that we vaccines have enough and we absolutely understand that people are not being vaccinated, and the more aggressive people are being vaccinated, the more they're going to look at the vaccine. Those who thought to vaccinate is, it seems to me, somehow they've been vaccinated and vaccinated, and those who, you have part of an antivaxer that will never be vaccinated, and you have a part of the people who, rightly so, are unwarrantedly putting doubt in the vaccine, why, why, why. That is why education is extremely important and there is a part where this government and the minister have failed. So they tried a little bit harder to answer questions, not the way he has one of those blasphemous, well, there's a story to be told. I think it's education, education and education at the moment. She's the only one who can trigger a slightly greater cleavage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63205	Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63206	Yeah, that's what I was saying, and that's what I said on behalf of the club where it was sketched, if I may say so. So it's not a campaign, there's your vaccine, here's 18 million by 2023, you're inoculating, why don't you vaccinate, etc. So that's how you don't access people. So, we talked, so not all anti-vaxers. You mentioned it yourself, you have people who, as they would say, crown him so he won't agree to vaccination, but there are those who have a lot of questions, a lot of misunderstandings, fears. He doesn't know that he would go to an MRI or vector vaccine, so he should talk to people like that, and not just like that, 2, 3 shows, and some quasicamping, but down to every county level, organize counselling, education locally, by health institutions, by the environments where you work, and certainly there would be a greater impact.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63207	Dear Representative Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63208	Honorable MPs. On the round table you mentioned, there was probably a larger number of interested ones, since the topic had been up to date for a long time. In this regard, you did not mention, and I think it would be good for the minister and the public to hear it, which were the most common issues addressed from the audience. On the other hand, I think it would be extremely useful for the minister and the ministry to do a survey among the council members and to try to find out what problems and dilemmas are most present in patients. I don't mean the diagnosis. I mean the questions they're asking about it in the offices. Since you work in a hospital, between that and Covid hospital, we would find it interesting to hear what questions are being asked to you or who are being asked by the patients themselves who come to you and finally, another question with which vaccine to be vaccinated with?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63209	Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63210	Thank you very much. A lot of questions, I don't know if I'm gonna make it, and I haven't been able to go into detail in a single debate. First of all, I have to say that we health care professionals are really trying on a daily basis, so with every patient, I personally ask everyone if you've been vaccinated, if someone says I'm not, if you have any questions, which are dilemmas, concerns, so I'm talking to everyone, I'm giving myself real time, no matter what the crowd is, etc. So on the one hand there's one... Pulled out, on the trail of what I told you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On the round table itself, we respected epidemiological measures, so there weren't 100 people, but there were quite a lot of interested women, say, there were pregnant women who didn't know if they were going to be vaccinated at that stage of pregnancy, with which vaccine. Here, for example, gynecologists recommend that it be an MRI vaccine by week 28 of pregnancy is some recommendation. So then, a question for a pediatrician, with which questions their parents come, whether children can be vaccinated, whether they have to wear masks even though they're vaccinated, etc., means a whole series of questions and that's exactly what they would It should actually be carried out in all the institutions. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63211	Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63212	Good afternoon, colleague Maric. Since you're from the system, I'm interested in your perspective, mostly speaking from the perspective of patients here, which is understandable again, but from the perspective of workers working in that system. So after this long-term, practically siege of our hospitals, what are your solutions? We suggested, so in front of the Workers' Front almost a year ago, the benefits of a work internship because we believe that health workers must in some way be honored by what they do. In most countries, there is one serious Covid supplement, and we do not have, therefore, how can we do it if there are no funds, as it is claimed, why not start with an unfettered work experience? I'm going to tell you that the answers were that it was a high amount, but the benefits of the benefits are still being delayed, and in addition, it was said to be a short-term phenomenon, here, which was the answer to our proposal in December, so now here, almost a year after that, it seems to me that it can be repeated.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63213	Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63214	Thank you very much. Here I have on behalf of the club stated that the total costs of testing for disease and treatment are 2.1 billion kuna, and that other part, the vaccine, Remdesivir, Covid supplement for healthcare workers’ salaries, etc., 832 million kuna. I also said that there was one more detailed cost of benefit analysis missing. We also spoke, and finally on behalf of the club I'll touch what you said, meaning embarrassing additions, Covid add-ons for our employees. You need to know that this, this thesis that came out in the report that, well, we've been prepared and educated to work in Covid. Who's educated? Well, not all of them are infectologists and pulmologists. Cardiologists, psychiatrists, I mean, do you understand? So everyone deserves a Covid supplement, and this well-featured internship that you're talking about, so in some countries it probably went in that sense, in any case, the first step would be to adequately pay the people who worked in Covid's department, and, of course, also consider this well-feelinged job internship.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63215	Thank you. Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63216	Comrade Marić, it is known that I really appreciate your work and I hope that the wider public will recognize it so that this and politics will gain little seriousness instead of too often estradisation. I'd like to ask you something precisely about this relationship between the vaccinated and the unvaccinated, but within the health system itself. We've come to an unspeakable situation where vaccinated and unvaccinated, vaxers and anti-vaxers, as they like to be called, cannot stand each other. I'm afraid we, in the policy, have, unfortunately, contributed to this antidialogue because we didn't have enough understanding for the diversity of opinion on vaccination. I wonder what kind of situation is within the medical circles between colleagues who have or have not been vaccinated, do they even communicate with each other? Do they understand or condemn themselves? How's the atmosphere?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63217	Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63218	Thank you very much. Well, here's a thank you for your commendation. Both in the health system and in politics, I really try to be objective, not to go into any factions, divisions, etc. What you're asking, of course, is that there are people in my health care facility who don't want to be vaccinated, some are afraid to vaccinate. There was even a bit of an angry situation with us where those who wanted to be vaccinated and who did not want to be vaccinated purely not because of their attitudes, but because those who were not vaccinated would be considered to endanger the health of patients, other colleagues, etc. However, with one quality dialogue and communication, these differences still calm down a little. So I stress, education, dialogue and what I mentioned to the minister means actually he knows there's a constitutional lawsuit from independent unions. So that people sat down and talked and said to those who didn't want to be vaccinated, tested, etc. Look, we're initiating you. We're asking you to be inoculated, but there will be no immediate termination. It means communication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63219	Thank you very much. The next debate will be a respected representative called Brumnic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63220	Good afternoon. Dear Vice President, respected ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues, especially colleagues on the right because they can influence something. Where do you think you're going? Let's start with the report we received and from the presentation of that report by the minister here before us. Every report by logic of things should be structured so that based on the data inside we want to show something and eventually draw some conclusion. The minister neither in the debate nor in the report had a conclusion. Why didn't he have a conclusion? Because the data found in the report is data that don't actually show anything. They show neither where the problem comes from, nor how we plan to solve the problem. I have several times here about different things actually detected the same problem, and this problem is the government, or how that government rules. This able-bodied PR government had a system of vaccines being made at Alan Ford's flower shop. This capable government had it not in this report, but there are 64 million kuna State Stocks Reports paid by plane from China to Zagreb for 8 planes, which according to any data we could find more than a double price afterwards. This government has a 50% fissure and then accuses the communists of it. I don't get it. Don't be mad. I don't get it. We went to a similar age, we went to a similar school, at a similar time, I don't know how you came to that conclusion. But today, in my question, I have actually opened up what is most painful, and that is the attitude towards Croatian citizens. This is what is most painful and indolence of the government, the indolence of the minister that 100,000 operations by Croatian citizens have not been carried out in the past year. I hope that all those previous years when these operations were carried out by Croatian citizens are really not citizens who wake up in the morning, stretch out and then say that they could be operated on today, that these operations were done because they were not necessary. They were necessary, and that's why we have the information that 5,000 died this year is more than the last one, and that's not the question of the crown, that's what the problem is. It wouldn't be a problem if it was a question of the crown if we knew it was from the crown. My question to the Minister after 100,000 people are not operated, we saw there data that literally half-reduced ordering to review what would bring it into the system in a year, two, three, four, five? What HDZ keeps doing, and that's a theme transfer. One of the shifting topics is that we helped Croatian citizens through the economy. True, they rerouted the money that Europe gave to Croatian citizens so that Europe gave 18 billion, and the HDZ gave it to Croatian citizens 12 billion. But where did 12 billion come from? So when they paid for the first aid and realized that if they only paid the cash that goes to pay and don't pay and the contributions they won't get anything, then from the second step they had to pay and contribute and practically 50% of the money back to themselves. If you put that in math without the clean VAT consumption, that's more than 12 billion. This is where HDZ helped the Croatian economy. I said a long time ago we're a member of Europe. Europe has helped us, but let's not take on something that wasn't what we did. And I say the key problem and this report and everything this government does is actually a system... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63221	Thank you. We have two replicas. Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63222	Thank you very much. A colleague, Brumnic, I'd really like to start with this last thing you said. So we have more examples that this government has not helped the economy, but you say we are lucky to be a member of the European Union. However, here is just an example of the restoration of Zagreb for how long it stands, we have not moved, and the money is waiting. It just needs to be spent, and this government isn't able to do it either. On the other hand, you mentioned that, you touched that, and that's the wages in health care. The very motivation of health workers who have been announced a large add-on, with special awards announced, etc. From what we've seen, we've seen what's happened. In fact, it's embarrassing how small adjectives were for people who were on the front line fighting the pandemic. And now that you count the inconsistencies of expert advice, what can we expect from citizens and what can we expect from healthcare professionals?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63223	Dear Representative Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63224	Well, what we can expect from citizens is what we see, in some way, so far, they're doing their job more or less honestly. In this business, they pay taxes and finance what they think they should finance, which is the health system, the social system that runs this and this kind of government, and I said how. The problem is that after citizens have paid their money into the budget they do not get what the government should have provided them. This government was supposed to reform the health system because when, will it, when? Because why do you need reform? The moment the crown of my first question began, were you aware of the problems and you said you were and you were going to do something. Today we have the result of 100 grand... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63225	Thank you. The next replica is a respected representative of Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63226	Your Honor, Vice President. You're talking about how this government didn't do it in time, and among the first governments to react in a way that has been in charge and made programs to help employees and entrepreneurs in exactly the way that it saves and preserves jobs. All the funds coming from the European Union come afterwards. So it was important to react in good time, not with a start of a year. Besides, when you're talking about what you don't know, and that's if you pay off employees' benefits to an entrepreneur once, then there's a contribution debt in tax books. So someone must also take over these contributions and it is very welcome that the obligation can be closed and thus indirectly damage neither the pension system nor the health system.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63227	Dear Representative Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63228	Dear colleagues, how much you understand what you're talking about is very simple. If the government only wanted to pay the net worker and that was to be it, only a regulation could be adopted to make contributions to that salary in the period until Covid was gone. Then you wouldn't have your budget charged. ... Then you wouldn't have your budget charged. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] That's right. [[Let's not leave the scene. Let's not leave the scene.]] That's right. What's this misinformation for? Did I say something wrong? I didn't hear what the second question was. [[Let's not leave the scene, please. Please don't discuss it from the scene.]] Thank you. [[Intruder Reiner: Here's a colleague Brumnic will say what he has to say.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63229	Thank you very much. The next one will be a respected representative of the Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63230	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues. I'll only talk about two topics in an individual debate. The first topic is what's in the report absolutely clear that we have enough vaccines, and that we have a weak cleavage. We've done some things before, or we've seen our vaccine fail because we ordered it, we donated it to certain countries, and that kind of empathy is quite acceptable to me, and it's incomparable that those who want to be vaccinated are better off than the vaccine fails. But now there's a new kind of tourism going on, and I'm guessing our Minister Berosh knows about it. So countries that are not members of the European Union have one-day flights to individual destinations in Croatia and people come here, split up with Johnson and go back to their country and thus get a Covid passport valid in the countries of the European Union, or are worth in Canada and America, and thus can go there. I'm interested in the next one. The minister is looking at his cell phone. Do we know that, do we know that? Is that something that is acceptable to Croatia? Is that something that we have any use for? So, the plane lands at the airport, people go and split up Johnson and have the opportunity to get Covid's passport and go back to their country. Is that our policy? So, when you decide a portion of the vaccine that you have failed or people don't want to vaccinate you and we already bought it, we give it to some countries that don't have that kind of financial power, which is where people want to vaccinate and it's incomparably better to have someone vaccinated than to let it go to waste. I'm not telling you that, she didn't say that, it's not a coincidence. It is now a kind of tourism that is so-called I don't know what to call him, but these are the things that happen to us. We know exactly what countries come from that have enough purchasing power and I suppose you know something about it and you know what's going on. If the ministers checked and you saw, that's now, so I got it, I wouldn't know if I hadn't been asked to see how it was possible. And then I got a little surprised, and then I went to all this trouble and I saw that it was really happening. I'm not gonna say it takes long, but let's know what it is. So, everything's fine. The second topic I want to say is what we know at this point. So we know that the effects of the crown or the Covid are much greater. The consequences are on the economy. The consequences are that our children and young ones will have for a simple reason I'm sure that children who went to school and went to school, so going to school is that in the morning you have to get especially young children have to get up, so I don't know how to brush their teeth, comb, go to school, and all this time when they didn't have class and didn't have class will be a shame. We have a survey by the Institute of Social Research and the Centre for Education Development, they recently published this great research on the effects of the pandemic on the system of education and education, and this research has shown that we have a significant increase in depression, anxiety, phobia, fears, break-ins, violence and physical violence in the environment in children and young people. So I really after the crown there was a young girl who was not having some conversation she was a student and then there was a conversation that she wouldn't have enough lectures. I told you I'm sorry for why you don't have those things that socializing with each other that I don't know the white card until 4 or 5 in the morning because it's part of the study. And I feel sorry for those people. But we know that now and I don't think that's just your portfolio. I think it's a deal that needs to be with the Minister of Education's portfolio, so we already have, and in schools we don't have enough psychologists. I don't think every school and every institution should have a psychologist and that's impossible. They're gone, and it's impossible. And I'm trying to be realistic and I'm trying really real and thinking. But what I'm sure and what I know is that we need to organize and do it now for more schools. So we have this problem we've shown everything. Don't let us go, we always start some activities after. Let's drop everything down the water. We know everything now, but in two, three or four years, we're not gonna tell each other where we're supposed to be right now. We, as Parliamentarians, when we speak from this pay phone, warn of certain things, and then just listen a little bit and do something.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63231	Thank you. We have two replicas. The Honorable representative of Pavić first.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63232	Dear MPs, you've talked a lot about people's problems, but what you didn't mention is a problem of education and information. Here I am a parliamentary representative, it was said I read in the paper that first those who have chronic illnesses, elderly patients, etc. will be vaccinated. I didn't vaccinate in the Parliament because I waited for my family doctor to call me since I had chronic illness. He didn't invite me. In the meantime, I got Covid and I had a lot of problems. I've got them today. There is a problem with information today because we have no idea what the consequences are. No one informs us people the consequences are such, such and such. When you were called to a doctor to tell you to look out for you, the best vaccine is either this or that vaccine because you have a disease like this, you have the same disease because you are in a condition like this or in a state of health. There's never anyone and there's trouble.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63233	Honorable representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63234	Thank you very much. Thank you, dear colleague Pavić, for your question for the simple reason that, as I have already said, education, education is extremely important. We now have the next situation. Those who thought and wanted to vaccinate were vaccinated. Each country has a certain percentage of anti-vaxer, but that's certainly not this 40% percentage when I want to be like this or 45%. This may be a percentage of 10 to 15% of the antivaxers that will not be vaccinated. These others have too little information. One reason was not to trust the headquarters or the prime minister. If I trusted the prime minister and headquarters, I'd never be vaccinated, but after the crown, I didn't have a dilemma at all. I was vaccinated, and I went into vaccination. I also contact my doctor when it was the right time to do so. But so that people are educated, that people get the right information at the right time is extremely important, and that's something that I'm expecting right now if it hasn't been done, let's start working.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63235	Thank you. The next replica is a respected representative of Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63236	Thank you very much. My colleague Dark Tarrit I remember we were sick at the same time and exchanged experiences. But what I really wanted to say was more about the education system and there you are absolutely right. So, the problems arising from the pandemic and this kind of wear with the pandemic are not only psychological-traumatic character, but they are also about the quality of teaching, but they are also about the working conditions in which both students and teachers worked, etc. etc. to those crazy measures I would dare say that they're crazy because logic doesn't have children wearing masks in the hallway, that they don't wear masks in the classroom, and then they put it back on. Be careful using the same sanitary knots with everyone. We simply don't have the infrastructure for such measures. There must be a better way to protect both children and teachers, and I say the only result is not just health problems. The result is much, much harder not to say unquality teaching process.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63237	Honorable representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63238	Thank you very much. My colleague Hajdukovic, I can answer this to you, and I'm very bad at telling jokes, so I'm just gonna do some joke when Mom comes to pick up a kid in kindergarten and asks – so you don't have a mask of someone else's. He says, "No, it was not from Eve, and Eve was changing with Emma, and Emma was changing with someone else, so, as we all know how to show it very clearly, that's when we showed it. There's been a terrible lot of wandering and I'm kind of always trying to include reason and be reasonable. And in one part of those wanderings, the crown actually hit the whole world. She didn't just hit us. It happened all over the world, and we see that the whole world was wandering in some decisions, that it didn't know what or how. But it's all gone. It's all over. So let's see what experiences some other countries have had. I like to watch what the Scandinavian countries do about other things, and that's unattainable for us. But let's say you look at the degree of fissure of Spain or Portugal, so the Mediterranean countries. So there's some sort of step error.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63239	Thank you. The next debate will be respected representatives of Branka Juričev Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63240	Thank you very much. Honorable Vice President, respected ministers with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. So during June, July and August of this year, for which this report was submitted, as we could see and know, a peaceful and stable epidemiological situation prevailed, which was extremely important for the tourist season. The effects of implementing measures under the Public Protection Act against infectious diseases during the Covid-19 disease epidemic can therefore best be read from the tourist figures. The tourist season has exceeded the figures for the whole of 2020 above all expectations on August 10th. Although our goal was to reach 60% to 70% record 2019, we are now almost 90% of the value of fiscalized accounts and record 2019. Even some indicators are even better than those recorded in 2019. We have 21% more fiscalized accounts for August, we have 18% more for September and 13% more for July and August, etc. Of course, there was much to do, and we can see this in the previous report that significant measures and steps were taken by approaching the tourist season. In fact, there was once again the focus of the necessary cross-sectoral cooperation with the Ministry of Tourism and Sports, the Working Group for the Promotion of the Republic of Croatia was established as a safe destination, a network of diplomatic consular offices that provided competent institutions in the receiving countries of the main broadcasting markets data that are credible to show the Republic of Croatia as a country that allows safe stay. The season depended on our respect for measures, vaccinations, and in 2021, the tourist town determined exactly the epidemiological situation and the level of epidemic measures. Our failures would be delighted to welcome our most direct competitive tourist country in the Mediterranean, however, we are this year the safest tourist destination in the Mediterranean. Tourism also has a major impact on trade, transport, agriculture, construction, food industry. The share of tourism with related activities in Croatia's GDP reaches 24%, and therefore it is extremely important to us how this 2021 tourism epidemiologically I would say season. Tourism is a major promotion of Croatian products. With smart investment in tourism we invest in the entire economy and enable Croatian citizens to have a better quality of life. The good results of the tourist season increase the purchasing power of our citizens and encourage consumption. However, a number of people and a number of arrivals, of course, have led to a slightly larger number of new sufferers. So at the beginning of the fourth wave, the epidemic is being recorded and we're just having the highest pressure of Covid patients on the hospitals along the Adriatic coast. KBC Split is preceded by the number of hospitalized hospitals as the largest hospital facility in Dalmatia. However, the ability to respond in a timely manner to health threats requires a system of rapid detection, rapid reaction, adequate response and communication on threats not only at local but at international level. Therefore, intensive communication has also been carried out with Member States in order to send alerts in a timely and secure manner, to exchange information and to coordinate the national response to serious cross-border threats. The number of patients reported by Covid who most likely activated the infection during their stay in the Republic of Croatia is 740. I think it is a really negligible figure if we know that in the first 8 months 10.7 ten million and 700 thousand guests came to the Republic of Croatia. The figure of 740 is certainly very small and this says that it is most likely again it is not certain that these people have been infected in the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with the protocols, data are sent once a week on people who are ill, tested, and data on vaccines in the Republic of Croatia, and therefore, as we know, the country is classified in the so-called ‘. green, orange, red or dark red. This, as well as a daily statement by the Civil Protection Staff and the Ministry and Government's reports, were the basis for further necessary measures. We see that the measures were timely, that our fellow citizens all respected and respected the measures of course controlled by both the Ministry of Interior and the State Inspectorate.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63241	Thank you. We have a few replicas. The first is the respected representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63242	Thank you very much, Vice President. You have listed how many guests there were in this 2021, and we have achieved almost all of this in 2019 and all of these measures and promotions, as well as the timely measures that have been made, Croatia has been declared a destination that is safe and obvious that we are more trusted by foreigners than just some of our citizens here from the opposition that all that has been communicated by the government, President Plenkovic did not actually experience as something that is significant and indicating that we need as much vaccination as possible in order to have as little mortality as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63243	Thank you. Honored representative of Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63244	Thank you very much. My colleague, Peric, it's true. Here's the number of arrivals, the number of nights that tell us what trust we have mostly foreign citizens are because it's about most foreign guests. However, about the trust in our institutions from the Ministry of Interior or headquarters, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Tourism, the State Inspectorate who carried out all these measures and above all of our citizens of catering and tourist workers who believe that these measures were right and who respected them have resulted in this number of arrivals and nights.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63245	Dear representative Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63246	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues, you were the most based on tourist indicators in your debate. Of course, a favourable epidemiological picture during June, July and August certainly played a key role in good tourist indicators. We know what the share of tourism in our GDP is, we are a tourist country and it is very important that all tourism, the economy, of course, and the health ministry have influenced a good epidemiological picture and, of course, a good tourist indicator. We must now start preparations for next year and certainly need to promote how important vaccination is for tourism, how important it is for economies, and of course primarily for the health of our citizens. So tell me, in Dalmatia, can it be better in your opinion?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63247	Honorable representative of Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63248	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Members of Maximchuk mourns the fact that there are renters who will receive guests in their home, and they still feel they should not be vaccinated. Surely then they will not be able to get one card, or mark a safe stay in Croatia, which is awarded by the Ministry of Tourism. It is one mark that aims to promote a safe stay in Croatia that is confirmed, guarantees the implementation of current health and safety recommendations and here from this pay phone and small tenants, especially catering and tourist workers, to keep them in as many vaccinations as possible so that both their facility and our destination are as safe for them as possible and for the guests who will be staying in their facilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63249	Dear Representative Shashin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63250	Dear Mr. Vice President, the respected colleagues of such well-balanced measures have resulted in excellent indicators of tourist significance both in the number of nights and in the number of visits and ultimately in good economic indicators. Croatia has also made it possible for foreign tourists to split free of charge in the destinations they were in, and this must have been further achieved in the Republic of Croatia, as well as in those institutions that were practically present there. Do you think such measures should continue and that this is actually a long-term investment in tourism and the economy of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63251	Honorable representative of Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63252	Thank you very much. A colleague of Shashin's truth is that it should be in all possible ways and on this one to meet our guests so that it wouldn't be an extra cost to them. In order to raise competitiveness and tourism economy in 2021 The tourism and sports ministry has provided €20 million to obtain rapid antigen tests. We know that many institutions have just responded and conducted such tests, and they were mostly the most numerous in our southern Dalmatian counties except of course the city of Zagreb and I believe that if we continue to take this trend, we will surely have a number of other measures that the Ministry of Tourism will offer to attract guests as much as possible, because we must make sure that we have other competitive countries that will find some ways to attract this same guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63253	Dear Representative Grba-Bujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63254	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, good preparation and joint action by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Tourism, as well as the entire health system headed by the Croatian Institute of Public Health has contributed to the success of this tourist season. What should certainly be pointed out is that in the case of expressions of interest for vaccination, tourist workers have shown a very high interest in vaccination. This has also enabled such a good tourist season, so I think they should be commended. The hoteliers made excellent adjustments to the measures, implemented them according to the decisions of the Staff, and indeed there is one responsibility to measures and liability towards the lives of not tourists but to all of us who also enjoyed the benefits of this summer on our coast. So I think that this kind of joint work should continue, that this is the way to go so that we can all be satisfied together.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63255	Thank you. Honorable representative of Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63256	Thank you very much. My colleagues Grba-Bujević the truth, only by common forces can we achieve certain results. If we recall reports from the previous three months there said that talks were already held during that period, meetings with professional associations that had already been committed and some polls said that more than 70% of the catering and tourist workers would be vaccinated. And when the season started, there was no problem. The joint action was indeed a major fissure for the safety and the employees themselves, thus the guests, as well as the tourist season.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63257	The next debate will be the respected representative of Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63258	Thank you very much, esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Minister. Here's something I want to say about this report on the effects of implementing measures under the Public Protection Act for the period from 1.6 to 31.8.2021. Although I'm gonna pull something to this day given the new situation we've got. I think these reports that are wanted still show their purpose regardless of what they're trying to do to offend them in some way, especially on the part of the opposition parties. But obviously, through every debate, we have two concepts -- the minister, the ruling majority is talking about what we really do, which is how much we can normalise the everyday life of our citizens. And the opposition in their own way, they don't do any good, they always have some reason. That's how it was three months ago when we discussed the report here in six months. Let's remember that was about 7.7. We were talking about cleavage and then it wasn't enough again. There were some problems at the vaccination points, there were talk and hints of the fourth wave, and then why we were getting so many vaccines, so we introduced so much vaccines, so we introduced the covid certificates so they didn't work well, etc. etc. We also claimed that we are doing the greatest possible thing to make the tourist season in the best possible circumstances and to achieve good results. The minister also explained those measures we were taking that were truly liberal, and that will be said to you by every tourist who was in the Republic of Croatia. The one who came to us, even a large part of our citizens. Results. Here's what I've been trying to do. The results of these 135 days, from 1.6 to 14.10. On that day 1.6, we had a total of 356397 infected and 8034 dead. On that day 1.6, we had a total of 1843 infected persons. By then, we've vaccinated millions of 280 thousand and 300 with the first dose, 492 000 people have completed their vaccination. Today 14.10.19st total of 422 thousand 908 infected, 8847 unfortunately dead and vaccinated a million 747 thousand 717 with the first dose, a total of two doses of a million and 641 thousand citizens. What's that score in 135 days? The number of infected by 66,000, died unfortunately 813 more. A total of 464 thousand 417 more people were vaccinated, and ended their vaccination of a million and 148 thousand 314 people meant in these 135 days. Are these the results of the work of the health system and of our citizens? That's the question. It's an exact number. We can compare them. Is that a result? Of course, we are not satisfied, and that is why we are always calling on those who are responsible for the public's behaviour to split both the prime minister and all ministers and MPs, etc. What's the opposition doing at the same time? So we're trying to go one way to make it work. The opposition at that time all summer here's the SDP he fell apart, all summer to break up and now a few days ago in two parties. They absolutely didn't say anything about the Corona virus. Look at their worries about it. Even Rajko Ostojic accused them of not having any strategy. That he begged to write a few guidelines that the SDP would say something about it. What did they do? They kicked him out of the party to ask us today if we have a strategy, we who take care of it. Of course they don't care too much, they said theirs. MOST is for vaccination all the time, but also at the Freedom Festival, some say they are experimental vaccines, so that young people should not be vaccinated, that this is also a vaccine, etc. And in the end, we have these from the Green-Left block. They began to manage perfectly with the City of Zagreb. Today we see what it looks like, but they said they support what health care professionals say and agree with everything in particular with Mr. Djikic. Here's what I was able to record. And I think it's kind of total work. What do we have all summer? So three months of the big season, tourist season, 80 million nights, 12 and a half million tourists who were also our residents every day here in the Republic of Croatia and were to be protected. And I think it did it the right way.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63259	Thank you. We have replicas. Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63260	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor. Here's something a little different. Today the debate here on the protection of the public against infectious diseases is taking place on two colossals. One is the one we are talking about, and the other is, of course, the attack of the Croatian Democratic Community. I'm gonna say something that I think is important. Most MPs start their debate I'm not an expert, but I can take a look. So I'm asking you as an experienced politician if Mrs. Selak didn't do herself any harm when she confronted the Green-Left bloc because she might have been able to become the director of some of the health institutions without a competition, or that's still a lack of mediation as they say. I'm not saying you'd become one.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63261	The Honorable representative of the bush has. Take it back, all right. Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63262	Thank you very much. Since we are talking about the Corona virus, we watch daily what is happening in both Zagreb and that Holding city. There is no way to explain what is happening today and what and what perception is created by the current government in the City of Zagreb about the city and the Croatian metropolis. Really, it can't be any worse. Now, as for these mediations and these meetings where individual parliamentary representatives hear and watch or we can read in the media and offer advisory functions, they are likely to be in a good relationship with MOST and WE CAN. We don't know why they're fighting. It is likely that such a candidate would pass, as we can see that we can or cannot run simply for any function in the city of Zagreb does not.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63263	Dear Representative Šimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63264	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honor, here you will agree that we are all responsible for our conduct in the community. We have a covid crisis, and if you remember 10 months ago when the vaccine came, then doctors, dignitaries, scientists, and we politicians, among other things. Some, however, said that they would not be the first to take a vaccine from someone else. Now that we have so many vaccines available, some have not yet been vaccinated. And it's a message to the public, or to those skeptics, that they act exactly the way some politicians behave. How do you comment on these banalities and their decisions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63265	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63266	Thank you very much. I do not really want to go into the personal choice of any politician or public worker who has a certain preference to whether or not he wants something or doesn't want the reasons why he wants it or doesn't want it. What is the fact that after the vaccinations we had and here the initial one is visible in the Croatian Parliament that we really haven't had what we had before often until that vaccination of people we had on the screen that appeared or could vote on the way, means some way to an e-session. So let's see that we had it recently, I think last week a fellow voted that way, but that had a certain success. Now that we've achieved that I think what's important is to say that however much we're going to normalize life and that these measures that this government has taken, i.e. The headquarters still allows a much better way to function than we had at this same time last year, but I'm also going to say why.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63267	Dear Representative Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63268	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Boric, I agree with you when you say that opposition in the Croatian Parliament often only complains that nothing is right, so when we enter into the structure we see that part of the opposition complains only because they have not done anything for Croatia or will. And the second part of the opposition is actually behind it has extremely devastating results. Let's just remember the global economic crisis back ten years when, at the time of the SDP government's term of office, between the eleventh and 15th years when 400,000 people were shot at the unemployment market, when salaries were cut and that was drastically both doctors and teachers and teachers and everyone in the public sector. Let's also remember the credit rating at the garbage level and not the single one, but the triple one with the three minuses.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63269	Thank you very much. Let's concentrate, though, on the subject that's our main concern. Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63270	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Buric, look, it's a little hard for me to speak on this replica, but I'll say it. I mean, the game fell apart in two parts and probably won't be whole anymore. But we just see that they're excelling their results, that's the 400,000 unemployed. If you have 150,000 as it is now, then it's the defeating result of some government. These are stories for public perception as well as their great worries, social sensitivity, etc. etc. I was only talking about this report and what they've been doing all summer. That's where I wanted to make a comparison, so that today we know where we are when we're discussing both the minister and ourselves, that it doesn't turn out to be someone doing something without this government knowing what they're doing or not knowing how to do it. So the citizens see everything. They also see this in Zagreb, and I think it's a little bit and it's coming to an end, because there's a huge incompetence of those who say they're very capable and they can do anything. You've got a 100-day half-government score.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63271	Thank you very much. We have a violation of the Rules of Procedure of Honored Representative Peovic. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63272	Infringement of Rules of Procedure Article 238. So here, indeed, the MP is being disdained, repeatedly and not only in the debates, but also in the replicas, repeating over and over again and daily one figure on the increase of employees, which does not include an increase in employment through foreign workers at all. So when you talk about this increase in employment all the time, then I ask you to give me a nice amount of unemployment and employment rate. So that's the data you need to specify.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63273	Thank you very much. The employment and unemployment rates are certainly no harm to the Rules of Procedure, so you get a warning. And please, all right now, let's just stick to the subject from all sides. Okay? Okay? It's not a tourist season, but it's connected naturally to a major epidemic, it's very connected, and certainly not condemned by some parties, it's certainly not some other thing that's been mentioned, etc. So let's stick to the subject. Honorable representative of Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63274	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, you said everything that seemed to make tourist season as safe and successful as possible. Well, I'd add that both testing and testing centres are secured. The 249th institution reported the implementation of the most antigenic tests in the Adriatic Croatia. Vaccination in medicinal products is also possible during this period. Fast antigen tests were subsidized by the tourism ministry with 20 million kuna. A "safe stay" project has been introduced and 16640 facilities have received such a mark for free, etc. So you can see and hear what the ministry and inter-resorship cooperation of all ministries and the Government of the Republic of Croatia have done to make this season as successful as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63275	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63276	Thank you very much. Comrade Yurichev, we heard different numbers today. The MOST says 13 billion overnights, 13 million arrivals on the island of Hvar, etc. Our statistics 80 million nights, 12 and a half million tourists who came to the Republic of Croatia today, the tourist season continues. Last year, let us remember from 31.8. we practically ended the tourist season and that is also something that results from the work of both the Staff and this Government. We can't just say we're not doing anything and nothing's wrong. Ask the catering staff, ask the hotelers what the measures mean, what does this measure mean? So it can be done now in a closed part of the catering facility we haven't had all summer and almost all year, that we can have a normal school year, that the academic year is running its course, that we have different models to take place on. And that measures are perfectly acceptable to the citizens. If they don't believe, we can go to neighbouring Slovenia. We are constantly calling for some countries in the EU, so we can see Slovenia as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63277	Thank you. The next is the replica of the respected representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63278	Thank you, Vice President. You have presented good figures and statistics with your colleague Borić. Watching the world and EU statistics is on our side. On the other hand, in the opposition debates, we are looking at the catastrophic forecasts of the Republic of Croatia in the fight against covid pandemic. And now we need to answer the question when we listen to you who is then guilty of exactly that good statistics of the Republic of Croatia or who might be responsible for such statistics or all of this happened by accident. If we watch this debate all day, someone who follows us will think we live in two different states. We're sending a little misspelled message. We should be a little clearer in our statement of view.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63279	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63280	Thank you very much. Comrade Bačić, here I said at the beginning we have two concepts of us in the spears, opposition in the spas, and so at each point almost and on these reports. And we're going from day to day, and we'll probably find somewhere in common. However, the figures are those that say whether something is right whether it should go in the right direction, whether we have problems etc. We're hearing now that we're at the height of the fourth wave. Maybe we did, maybe we didn't. But what is the government's constant activity is to invite people to take responsibility, part of the responsibility to split, to protect themselves and their loved ones. And that, in some ways, if what might happen is the best way to solve it, that is. So there's no such thing as the worst part, it's death cases. We're just doing it. We've got enough vaccines, and we've done our best. And these are the words that have fallen apart in these intense struggles between themselves have the opportunity to say what they want and mostly do it in a blood way and they think it's actually the best way for citizens to touch and like each other. But we can also see that it's not going very well in the polls.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63281	Thank you. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Nikola Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63282	Thank you, dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. We could hear a lot of things today in this debate. In the end, we could hear a fellow Boric, so before me saying that the party is no longer whole, that it is now in two parts. The party's been in two parts since the '90s, so when it split into two wings of this one of yours and this one over here that we have on this side, so you don't have to gloat over it. I think that the Croatian people actually because these parties are primarily in your image and work through HDZ we have not solved and bear the consequences and live hard and unfortunately emigrates from Croatia. And as for the report itself, the headquarters and the measure, it is quite clear, therefore, that from the very beginning I asked for my performances when Willy Berosch was still a superhero and in fact no one dared say anything against the Staff, when we clapped on the Staff when our children drew both William and Davor and the other superheroes. I found a guest from N1 TV where I said we should wait for the end of all of this and that then we should give grades, but in this fear of this new and unknown disease, we should not rule out common sense, that we should question everything. So I sign everything my colleagues said in these discussions that preceded it. There is no dogma that must not be questioned, so neither is what counterpart Selak-Raspadić said about the number of people who were hospitalized or died, and unfortunately they were vaccinated and this is not what counterpart Kekin said that someone said that I didn't know every fourth person who was vaccinated that she died. She didn't say that. Look at the whole press, and please don't enter my word as I speak. If you want to replicate it for me, you can. So learn in a nice way to behave here in the assembly room. It's clear what's said and it's actually a very clear message. So no one argues that for one part of our elderly people an immunocompromised vaccine, that the vaccine can save their lives. So that's quite clear. No one here is distracting people, so they're inoculating. But we're also not going to fall under what you and HDZ want to sell us, that people should be forced into the vaccine. So directly, indirectly, directly through these covid certificates that don't actually serve anything because it shows that the vaccines can spread the virus, so I don't know in Sinj after it was that party on the Pelješa Bridge comes both the entire government and all those who were. Without testing, they are present here and possibly one of them was spreading the virus, and the people who didn't vaccinate all of them were tested, and they were actually the only ones who were 100% safe because they were tested negative. So you need to be reasonable about this whole thing. I can't apply one rule if we really want to protect people completely we can decide I don't know that we're going to test everything in health institutions or I don't know in nursing homes because there's a population that's the most endangered of this disease. But we can't force people to be vaccinated, we can't in these decisions or measures, so we can actually get rid of this excess vaccine that the government ordered, and apparently it's ordered a surplus because a certain number of people have been vaccinated. And if everyone decided in Croatia to vaccinate again, there would be more. And then the Prime Minister, I don't know about the government, makes those decisions that we're going to donate the vaccine to them or them. Of course, the Croatian people have always helped others in difficult situations, but I think we are not so rich that we can order a vaccine that we will then throw or donate. So my message is clear. Anyone who wants to be vaccinated should be vaccinated. We need to protect the elderly, immunely compromised, and we all need to get back to normal life. Remove all measures, remove the covid certificates for this no longer makes any sense. And I haven't heard a single reasonable argument that would convince me of that. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63283	Dear Representative Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63284	Dear Mr. Grmoya, my colleague, please comment on the example of this mask. Now you're talking down there without any mask, I'm getting up now, I'm taking off my mask while I'm talking. When I'm gonna sit down, I'm gonna have to put the mask back on. What's the probability of being infected with the corona and having a mask when I'm sitting and whether that probability is less than that when I'm standing and talking? So, which is absurd, actually, and do you see it as well? On the other hand, I would ask you to comment on, say, cardiological problems that are just coming out now, oncological problems that no one is talking about in Croatian health care. And I would also like to remind myself of certain health costs that have been doubled during the lockdown, during the lockdown, certain costs have been doubled and that we still don't have one healthy, real health reform that will promote the entire system both health and economic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63285	The Honorable representative of the Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63286	So I'm no expert so I can say the consequences of all the epidemics, and therefore these measures have on all segments of our lives from health, economic, and beyond. Although some of the consequences of these global closures are now seen through price hikes and all that, inflation and everything that's happening to us. So it is quite clear that if we have fewer examinations, it is quite a logical conclusion that unfortunately there will be both health and human health consequences and cardiological diseases, tumors, and everything else. But my colleagues have already talked about it before, and that's actually very little to talk about. And what I find most worrying is that a little talk is also about the impact on the mental health of the nation and especially on our children, so those who were imprisoned, who had no normal teaching, who had no normal social contacts and life.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63287	Thank you. Dear Representative Kekin, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63288	Thank you. Here, I'll put it on your microphone. "That every fifth vaccinated person has been hospitalized, and almost every Thursday the vaccinated person has died." So, that's what your colleague who may have been confused said, and maybe deliberately manipulated, and I honestly don't know what's up with those two. And the worst part is that neither you nor she nor anyone from your club are able to get in front of the Croatian public, in front of a parliamentary pay phone and apologize for such a manipulatively harmful and dangerous statement made by your colleague. You told the Croatian public that one of the four people who was vaccinated died. It means from our club we'd already be gone, from my family too, etc. So you're not even able to say sorry, so here we are, we made a mistake, that's not true. Well, you can be ashamed!
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63289	We have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure. He's the first respected representative of Troscott. What's hurt?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63290	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Article 238. I don't know why this fascination, okay, I understand with my colleague, Selak-Raspadić, if she lacks a figure, so she's not all of Mrs. Selak-Raspudic's parliamentary representatives. We'll give it to her. But it was very clear what Mrs Selak-Raspudic said about the reports themselves, and she repeated it several times today and in all press conferences. I don't think this is correct.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63291	I don't see what the breach of the Rules of Procedure was about. It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Please, let's not get out of my classmates' bench! Guys, please don't come from the bench! Please don't get off the bench! Enough of that! Behave yourselves! My colleague Troscott, you get a warning, because it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here's a colleague of Miletic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63292	Thank you, Mr. Reiner, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Col. Grumo, Article 238. Vice-President of the Parliament, therefore, a colleague deliberately manipulates her, has been fascinated with counterpart Maria Selak-Raspudic. She's manipulating because her colleague Rasudic made it very clear that she didn't mean it. This is where she came in and said I didn't mean it. Please let me finish. So a man would expect you to be much calmer. Maybe it's because you're in some relationship with the rulings, so you're upset or fascinated, so...../Speakers speak out loud./... Can I finish? Can I finish, or what? So please. So, as fellow Boric today, there are people simply in emotions wrong and say so the lapus lingue happens and it's amazing to me that we're not a little bit more normal to each other than to go on a knife. Well, I'm terrified you're going on a knife like that to each other.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63293	Comrade Miletic, please come sit down first. You've exceeded your time in 32 seconds. Secondly, it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so you get a warning. And please let's calm down the ghosts a little bit. Okay? People used to say things today. Smart and stupid things don't come in. I can't go in myself, or I don't want to. I could, but I don't want to. As an expert, I could, but I don't want to get into these things whether they're smart or stupid. But people said, so it's up to them to say if they said or didn't say, deny, apologize, correct or anything. We have a response to the replica. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63294	So this isn't about any lapus. This is about extracting a statement from the context. So if we have, if the reports say that it's from people who are hospitalized and deceased, that every fourth person, so these people were vaccinated, so if you get something out of the context and you say that this applies to all the people in the Republic, it's clear that you're manipulating. You're manipulating a statement that doesn't have a lapus at all. So he's referring to hospitalized persons who died. Look at the data, but you don't read the report. You're here on the task of defending the ruling. And I might have defended the ruling if I had won 150 million kuna for liquidity in the city of Zagreb, so I understand your motives. And we'll still be here to resist. I'm sorry you're having trouble with that. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63295	The next replica, respected MP Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63296	I'll ask you something else. I was going to ask here a question one, but... Do you think it would be as good for new parliamentary deputies as when I came to the Croatian Parliament a year ago? I understand that some may be frustrated because here is Marija Selak-Raspoudić, however, won thousands of votes from the preferential citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and some have entered through second, third, eight hundred votes. But good. About that, by that. We're not talking about this right now. But do you think it would be a good idea to organize here to help them, so colleagues from other clubs, simply some rules of conduct, civility, communication, still keep one level of high democracy and human relations. Because it seems a little bit like this to me that some of them came out of the caves recently, and I think we all earned a much more normal relationship together, and we don't have to get along in anything, at any point in 10. But I think we can still be people to each other.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63297	The Honorable representative of the Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63298	My colleague Miletic, so I would be a hypocrite if I were to propose such a lecture, so I am personally very temperamental. So I've often jumped off the rails, so as far as acting in the assembly room is concerned. So I'm not a hypocrite, and I wouldn't want to hold on to anyone's morals, so for that matter. I'm worried about a statement coming out of the context that's been explained here from this pay phone. And as for these little tensions, I've often succumbed to such attacks, so it wouldn't be right if I lectured on it. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63299	Thank you very much. Now she will speak to the respected representative Maja Grba-Bujevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63300	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Minister of Health, State Secretary. Here's me on two things. One will be about the great words of Andrija Printar, certainly related to the pandemic, we cannot avoid it. And the other is that one of these morning's statements suddenly becomes important, and in fact, the facts don't really know each other. But of those 10 postulates of the famous Andrija Printer, whom people are very often invited to attend when they talk about some needs in the health system, I will single out only three. One is, he says, more important is informing the people than the law. Second, a doctor should be a national teacher. And thirdly, the issue of folk health and the work on its promotion should be dealt with without distinction. We don't have who's who now. Now, that's why I'm calling on what's heard here today, there's no strategy, there's nothing like this, so I'm going to read this report, so I'm surprised we keep mentioning there's no strategy but one cartoon. It states the strategic objectives of the management of the epidemic. So says point one, two, three, four. I'll stick to the last one. A large effective vaccination exercise in all segments. First supply and distribution of the vaccine. Thank God there's enough, and we can choose what we want to vaccinate with, when we want to vaccinate, when we want to vaccinate. So, it's all our choice. The organisation of vaccine points was designed so that it was organized in health homes, according to the medical clinics of the family, according to public health services, special checkpoints in all possible places in the pharmacy. It went with buses and vans around the back of the village somewhere, only that we're as close as we can get to the patient as possible. Then organization of vaccination teams. In the vaccination teams, you know that they usually do it in the Public Health Services and family doctors. They were now involved in family medicine with their sisters. Let us not forget, epidemiologists with their sisters, hospital doctors, doctors and nurses of emergency medical services, pharmacy, patronage sisters and all those involved in this strategy. Then he says we'll secure a single national base. This unique national base is very well functioning. It raised a million and 700 covid passports and let's never forget it, it was made first in Europe. Collection of interest in vaccination against the employment sector. So, just before we mentioned that in tourism, it was precisely that data was collected, just as data of interest were collected, so there was nothing further to do for tourism, because they showed great interest. But when an education exam was conducted, it was very much discussed with all those who could contribute to getting as many vaccinations as possible from school teachers. Continued monitoring of vaccine side effects. Halmed does this every day of all our doses that we have vacated, adverse reactions of 4490 have been reported in Halmed. So, it's all being followed. And what I would especially like to point out is that the continuation of the national vaccination campaign with the introduction of local campaigns with specific characteristics for certain areas, so I would like to say specifically the carlovakia county from which I finally come, where very well the doctors, the nurses are all involved in making videos of our local, famous doctors and sisters, people who work in the system, so that they can actually convey their experiences and why they need to be vaccinated. So that was something about the strategy, so when we mention that there are no strategies, there's a strategy and everything that's been written and implemented. And in the morning we could hear that in the Clinical Hospital Center Osijek was waiting two hours. I tried, I talked to the principal who told me next. Those in the early morning, that means around 7 have the most pressure on the entrances to the hospital. Then they have six points to enter and wait maximum until 15 minutes. In the rest of the day, they have two to three checkpoints, and everything goes without a hitch. They've got thermal cameras, they're working everywhere on the entrance and they're working daily on improvement and they're cutting back on time. That's how, from one morning's statement from the back bench, we get it to become clear now in the media, where everyone says here it is waiting in Osijek for two hours. You can't wait two hours. There's one theory, and there's one fact. These were facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63301	Thank you. Replica of the respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63302	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleagues of Grba-Bujevic I think this debate about vaccination is bizarre for me. In the last 14 days, 3700 have been newly infected. 86% unvaccinated. Over the past 14 days, about 220 hospitals have been hospitalized. It's even higher, 88% unvaccinated. Therefore, there is no longer talk of whether the Staff and the Government have trust or do not trust the citizens. Here all we need to do is look at the statistics on the one hand, and on the other hand see what countries are doing here that have a slightly longer democracy than us and a higher standard of citizens. It is there that fissure is much, much greater than in Croatia. So these supporters in Croatia should be non-vaccinated if they don't already trust the government, then trust mathematics and trust the information that is being published.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63303	Dear Representative Grba-Bujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63304	Thank you, Mr. Bacic. I was just about to add something else, so thank you for bringing it up. So, the data says everything to itself. I've never been a health worker, I don't know how anyone can advocate inoculation. But let me, it's everyone's decision to vaccinate or not to vaccinate. But we must think of others around us, but we must think of ourselves. We're also the ones who can handle it. There's always one such sentence here that everyone who's been vaccinated carries the disease. Yeah, that's relatively true, but forget to say from that same study until the end of a sentence that says, but those who are vaccinated carry 40 to 50% less. Now, that's an important thing. Here's something I like when you quote studies. Me as a doctor, it's close to me, but then I like to quote them as they fit and quote them completely, and then I need to know that it could be done that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63305	Honorable representative of the Hajdash-Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63306	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament. So, you mentioned that from the morning, so a few sentences came here as if the government had no vaccination strategy, a strategy to fight the covid. And probably not. But it doesn't really matter now. You know what's interesting here? Why do people in principle, citizens of the Republic of Croatia do not believe in the current key... or the shareholders of society. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's the HDZ and the Ministry, which makes sense, you run the state. Here's your example. So, in July 2020, you claimed that masks should not be worn at all. Is that right? RTL? You talked. [[Smallback-Bujević: No, it's not July.]] Now look, you're like... society of people who should trust you, because you come from the scientific health sector to say so, and now you have a mask and you talk here. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Look what it's like. Then how can people believe it? So here's the thing of belief, so that's the key problem. There's a vaccine, but there's no trust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63307	Thank you. Dear Representative Grba-Bujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63308	I'm so glad you brought it up. If you sat here more often, I've already explained it three times, no problem I'll say it one more time here and then I'll just do it for you. They think everyone already knows. So you should look at everything in the context of a time when something is said. It was about April when everyone and the European Commission and the World Health Organization said no masks, and you didn't need to know why? Because that's when every contact was followed. For everyone we knew it was his child, it was his mother or anything else. So that's when World Health said we can't keep track of all the contacts, then we can't tell everyone that they should wear masks. So it's not my invention, it's the invention of those who claimed it. And don't impute anything to me anymore, because everything needs to be looked at in the context of time. Yeah, we used to have a closed country, now we don't have it closed. So everything changes, so that changes some other things. And as far as I'm concerned, if you knew everyone was vaccinated here, I'd take off my mask too. I won't take off my mask until you're all inoculated.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63309	Thank you. The next one will be a replica of the respected representative, Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63310	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My fellow MPs, we've seen that we have the best football strategies in this room, that some of them know all sorts of things about agriculture but they understand other topics, and now they've become excellent epidemiologists. Many of these irresponsible statements are said to be published on social networks. And I think that no matter what they have the right to say, whatever they want, they should show more political responsibilities, as well as the Christian ethics some are calling for. I'm curious to know how you, as a doctor, interpret such discussions as I think further confuse the public, do not shed light on what the public would expect us to get the right message and make a legitimate decision. I think that after these discussions, people are rather confused and that some in the heat of pulsism and collecting cheap political points are sending really wrong messages. In this way they take the opportunity for citizens to really decide what is best for them.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63311	Thank you. Dear Representative Grba-Bujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63312	Thank you, fellow Petyr. I couldn't agree more with you. You're absolutely right. A lot of trouble has been caused by vaccinations, including other things at the expense of pulsism and at the expense of what has been published on social networks or exhibited in various protests. Sadly, some prominent people in politics have contributed. It's a word that can't be done that way. It must not be forgotten that this is a pandemic thing. We're not talking about things that are common. This never happened to a pandemic like this. Confusing a people who don't need to know everything the scientific community knows. The scientific community knows a lot and we have to trust her. We can't send messages that confuse the people. This will not contribute to anything except that someone may decide wrong by their own health, and then it will cost him his life. We have to do this, we have to work on it, we have to try very hard not to. Unfortunately, here's the day it is today.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63313	My colleagues and colleagues, the subject may be very cheerful, but take it easy. Come on, please! I'm not talking about the masks, I'm talking about the chatter that interferes with the speaker. Honorable representative of Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63314	Thank you very much, Vice President. As a doctor, you said what was done. I'd add that little of our public knows how much the funds have been spent. So here's to testing by the end of August over a billion kuna. For accommodation and treatment of covid patients over 8.3 million kuna. Covid's office over 26 and a half million kuna. Mobile vaccination teams over 26 million kuna. And I don't want to pick it up. So a total of 2 billion and 132 million kuna, not counting the cost of salary compensation during temporary incompetence or prevention of vaccine work, etc. Additional funds have been spent on this. So here's what I'm saying, sickness benefits for isolation and self-insulation are almost 200 million kunas. Special awards to healthcare professionals 95 million kuna. Vaccines against Covid 368 million kunas and so on.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63315	Honorable representative of the coat of arms, Bhujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63316	Your colleagues Branka are numbers close to you. I'm close to medicine and protecting people's lives. Well, I'll leave the numbers to you, and what I think is a lot of that money could be used if we all stuck to the measure, that we were doing everything we needed, that we were seriously acting not only as politicians, but as just regular people, I think we could use a lot of that money to say for better purposes or for more useful purposes where we could buy some of those devices that we're really missing, and then a bunch of other things.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63317	Thank you very much. She will now speak to the respected representative Majda Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63318	Thank you, Honorable Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Honorable MPs and MPs. I will speak exclusively from the position of a person who has absolutely no medical education, who hasn't studied medicine for 6 years and who hasn't specialized in epidemiology or any other area yet. These are the majority of us in the Republic of Croatia who don't have all of them. But what we have is gratitude, is respecting the profession and authority of the profession especially in these Covid conditions and pandemics back 20 months. What I said this morning, I'll do it again. So vaccination is certainly the greatest medical success in the 20th century and vaccination saved more lives than any other medical intervention, and that's a fact, that's something that's irrefutable. This is also shown by statistics, the aggregate statistics of all infectious diseases in the Republic of Croatia that I will not talk about now, but also this report that is before us. Therefore, during the reporting period, the number of patients was 17 thousand and 125, of which 86% were not vaccinated. Also, as regards hospitalized patients from the total number in the reporting period, 80% were not vaccinated, and as regards the deceased in the reporting period, 78% were not vaccinated. From the very occurrence of the disease to the present day there are more than 6,000 patients who have been hospitalized who are under 50 years old and 200 died in that age group. In any case, I think it should be mentioned once again that the vaccine keeps the head, that it protects life and that it is something that we must continue to endure in terms of motivation. Given that this Report does not apply exclusively to health measures, but also to the economic few, I will focus on measures to preserve jobs, but also other economic measures to combat the consequences of Covid. So, I remind you, it's only one day after the devastating earthquake in Zagreb, so it's 23. On 3rd of last year, that entrepreneurs were able to apply digitally for a fee of 4 thousand kuna per worker, so for a measure to preserve jobs in charge of the Ministry of Labour and Pension System, which was implemented through and implemented through the Croatian Employment Service. The measure by which the Government of the Republic of Croatia courageously and boldly stood behind every Croatian worker, behind every Croatian entrepreneur who met exactly the prescribed criteria. So far, it's about 12 and a half billion kuna, about 700 thousand workers and about 120,000 employers. Once again, I remind you that in 10 to 15 years, we have had another global crisis and that economic crisis. However, different governance models have shown who knows, who knows, and who doesn't. In the term of office of the Government, which was from 2011 to 2015, there was also a measure to preserve jobs. It's not a novelty. Only she wasn't activated at the time, more specifically she was activated for all four thousand workers. That's why we had almost 400,000 people on the stock market. The peak was in February 2014, and on the other hand, in just the first two months since the announcement of an epidemic of measures to preserve jobs was consumed by more than 600 thousand workers. With this measure as well as other economic measures, I think it is also important to mention here a measure to reduce working time and special incentive loans to HAMAG BIKRA for entrepreneurs and reward workers in the health and social system with 10% salary increases. So, at the worst time since the time of the Homeland War, this government has managed to maintain the stability of the labour market throughout the entire epidemic of 20 months and we today have 50,000 more workers, this is the data from the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. It's not a piece of information that's been put out by someone. This is official data, and compared to old normal 2019, we today have more than 6,000 employees in the Republic of Croatia and these are the results of Prime Minister Plenkovic's government.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63319	Thank you. Replica of Honored Representative Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63320	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My fellow MPs, you said you weren't coming from an epidemiological profession, but you were talking about information that was public and available. We've had opportunities here to hear debates from those who minority know what a mutation is, but hold lessons and propagate their vision of the world. Everyone has the right to say their opinions and to opt for what they want. But political responsibility requires that disinformation is not spread particularly in the sense that it affects human health and human lives in such difficult times of crisis. You have touched support for the preservation of jobs that have been paid out of 19 billion kuna. Can you tell us how many jobs have been preserved by these aids and do you think that the measures that Croatia has introduced are flexible and liberal enough to connect all the structures of society to ensure that society functions normally but does not suffer the economy?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63321	Thank you. Dear representative Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63322	Thank you, Mrs. Petyr. Yes, I completely agree with you. No matter how many of us, perhaps even most of us here and in any case the same situation is in Croatian society we are not medical professions, but I believe that also the vast majority of us have great gratitude for the profession, according to the authority of the profession, according to the medical professionals, to the specialists, to the doctors and to all those who help us always and most of all in these last 20 months and who have endured a huge, huge burden and where we must be really, very grateful to them and to appreciate it. I think most people really treat and treat the profession or the medical profession. As far as these 19 billion are concerned, you're right. Back in five years, this government has invested 19 billion kuna in general employment policies.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63323	Thank you very much. Dear representative Bedekovic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63324	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, I'm going to look back on that part of your individual debate where you were talking about two crises and I'm glad you mentioned it. So, one crisis that we've all witnessed since 2010, 11 years, so the consequences and this crisis that we've been facing today, I'm thinking about the Covid crisis, I'm thinking about the earthquake and everything that's been going on over the past year, two. And I'm glad you mentioned measures to preserve jobs. And once again I kindly ask you to repeat for the sake of the Croatian public what all the Government of Andrej Plenkovic has done regarding the stability of the labour market, related to the preservation of jobs. I'll just point out and compare job preservation for 600,000 workers in this crisis and 4000 workers in that former crisis that we all went through at the time of some other government and some other option that at the time proved how much we can't.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63325	Thank you very much. Representative Buric. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63326	Thank you, dear colleague Bedekovic. I know that many in this assembly, especially the opposition, are insinuating the very good and positive results that this government has achieved, and I think that it is actually insinuating something that speaks most of them, because in fact no matter which side we should be happy, or at least optimistic, or at least realistic about the results that are, especially at this time, never worse than the time of the Homeland War. And I really do, and I say, by strategic governance, this government has managed to protect health and life, but also the economy and the economy. As far as the economic crisis before this world health crisis was really recently managed by one...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63327	Thank you. Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative Lukačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63328	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues for the preservation of jobs when you spoke, here I want to point out with special satisfaction and I am glad that in some way and persons with disabilities have contributed to the preservation of jobs in the open labour market since the money that has not been spent for their needs was still on the account of the Office for Arts, Professional Rehabilitation, Employment of Persons with Disabilities, therefore the amount of 400 million kuna has been redeployed to preserve jobs in the open labour market. So, as for everyone else, so is the person with the disability, so I'm glad that that's how we kept our jobs, and that's how we gave people with disabilities their jobs.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63329	Thank you. Dear Representative Buric Thank you. [[/Attack Lukačić: And in some ways secured their existence. Thank you.]] Dear representative Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63330	Thank you, Mrs. Lukacic. I agree with you, and you're absolutely right. So when we talk about the funds that are intended to preserve jobs, and we know that so far it is at a gross amount of $12.5 billion, these are funds that are partly financed from European funds, and partly from the state budget. There is the project RIECT, there is the project ŠUR etc. And as for persons with disabilities to encourage the employment of disabled persons, this government has over the past five years allocated nearly half a billion kunas to encourage the employment of disabled people. And anyway, we actually see good results, and that's an increase in the number of employees. So I fully agree with you and regarding these finances that have helped to pay off especially in the beginnings of the 3rd month.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63331	Thank you very much. The next debate will be a respected representative of Rada Simicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63332	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here's like all the countries of the world and Croatian citizens are freaked out by Covid and God knows how and when it will end. What I'm trying to say here is that the Croatian government is doing everything possible to get over the Covid crisis with as little effect as possible. A vaccine has also been obtained and anyone who wants can be vaccinated. What is not good is polarisation in Croatian society on those who have been vaccinated and on those who do not want to be vaccinated. Vaccination is your choice and no one puts pressure on anyone to vaccinate. Those who deny the pandemic after so many sick and dead live in their loneliness. When it was just getting the vaccine, then there were problems why it wasn't there, today when there was a reason why we got it so much. The media space of a particularly social network is so polluted by the misinformation of laymen and psychics, and the waist is completely suppressed on the margins and can hardly place professional information. On this occasion, I want to publicly thank everyone who cares about the health of Croatian citizens. Especially healthcare professionals and here present Minister Beros who are in direct contact with those who have Covid and need hospital treatment. The population most affected by Covid is certainly a population of students and students. It should be stressed that decisions on how to carry out teaching in primary and secondary schools have been respected and that teaching has been implemented through three models. Model A, model B, model C, depending on the epidemiological opportunities in each county. Croatia is one of the few countries that has acquired the necessary teaching equipment and has been ready to perform quality online teaching. The ministry provided advisory support to all stakeholders on teaching organisation, practical teaching, professional exercises, class and correctional exams. Enthusiasm of all employees, and in a special way the teacher and teacher of the senior year did not question the satisfaction of students and parents. The responsible and professional approach of our educators at the head with school principals is worthy of admiration. State graduation was successfully conducted, and graduation was organized for those who were in self-insulation or graduation under special conditions. The Ministry of Science and Education continues to call on its employees to be vaccinated and currently we in the system of education and education have slightly above 58% vaccinated. Of course it's not a good number, that there's more to go on. At the beginning of the new school year 2021. - 22 classes are conducted face-to-face. It is the best, most desirable and most qualitative form of teaching and certainly should do everything to keep it that way because it is very important for the mental health of students, and the school is the best space for learning and socialization. Out of the total number that attend classes in primary and secondary schools 455 thousand 819 students we had as many sick as possible, which in self-insulation 7 thousand 552 students or something over 1.5% which actually shows the responsibility of professors, students and parents, and also obtained all the necessary means of protection so that students can use it to protect themselves from Covid. In the end, I want to thank again everyone who invests a lot of energy, a lot of emotion in the unpredictable times of Covid pandemic, no matter what some think of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63333	We've got more replicas. He is the first respected representative of Ante Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63334	Thank you, Vice President. You're a pedagogist if I'm not mistaken and you've come from the education system. I'm interested in your opinion, you said a 50% fissure of teachers and teachers who have not moved from that figure to this day. I'm interested in your opinion, as well as the pedagogal and former director, how you explain this very situation of poor healing of teachers and teachers who are in contact with children on a daily basis. We know that children often have the easiest symptoms and pass on this virus, and that these teachers and teachers are somehow by habitat should be among the first to educate, raise and help the health system, but also the Government of the Republic of Croatia about all of the pandemics, especially in contact with the students themselves, their education, but also their parents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63335	Dear Representative Šimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63336	I'd like to thank my colleague Bacic. Yeah, well, you noticed 58% isn't some number. See every adult educated man who does a responsible and demanding job must take care of himself and his behaviour or public manifestation. Now, how many misinformations affect a certain group of people, that's hard to say. But I do believe that people should send a message to those who educate. So when I was a student, then I was always looking for a role model among my teachers, and it helped me a lot maybe to get out of a crisis situation. So today, I think that in addition to doing this, educators should do their job in a good way to be a role model to others, and that means to vaccinate.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63337	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Shashin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63338	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. My dear colleague here I would like to refer a little bit to your discussion, given the recommendation of the Ministry of Education and, together with the Public Health Office, that teaching is carried out wherever possible face-to-face because it is indeed the most qualitative form of teaching and proved last year that all other forms are not the best solution. I would like to know what the real situation is with regard to school equipment, etc., the possibility of conducting practical teaching and all other forms of teaching in schools in view of this situation. And what you're saying is 58% of the cleavage, of course, is that we can't be satisfied with it, and I think we're sending a very, very vague message from this high house. I get the feeling that from the opposition benches, they're all for vaccination, but there's always that, but you know and then that, but it's taking a lot longer, and I don't think we're clear enough here that vaccination has no alternative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63339	Dear Representative Šimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63340	I thank the esteemed representative, yes, here I must publicly say who we are and who we worked at school are seeking to respect or achieve a teaching standard, that is work in one shift. But under these conditions, I have to say that the ministry has invested huge money to equip schools and in other cases for these crisis situations. So I talked to people from Germany, Austria, and they actually admire how much we have teaching technologies and how we can organize online teaching. As for practical work in vocational school schools, they also have their own space, their own organization. True God was disturbed because students had to do practical work outside of school, with the employer, and it didn't work very well for a while, but it was just the three weeks we were /incomprehensible/... in some isolation. ... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63341	Dear representative Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63342	Dear colleague, when it comes to the Covid crisis and the way we deal with it and the way we operate in the education system, I certainly agree with you that we actually need to be focused and is somewhere more than 450,000 of our students in primary and secondary school actually the quality of teaching. And indeed, this crisis in the last two school years has shown how important and significant as the technique is, there is no technique that could be a living word of teachers, teachers, teachers and teachers, and therefore I really believe that the greatest part of the burden of teaching in pandemic conditions has been done by teachers, teachers, teachers, teachers and directors and should be given great respect to them. And sure So how do you comment on it? [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63343	Dear Representative Šimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63344	I thank my colleagues that once again I would like to thank this man for all the responsible, hardworking, hardworking educational workers who work in the system of education and education. In fact, the hardest thing to do is work in a system of education and education when it comes to crises. These are the people who responded to this challenge. They didn't save themselves or their time to gain certain knowledge, skills, education to adapt to the new system, but I say they did everything well and as my colleague likes to say, my teachers are brilliant. I also believe that most professors are brilliant and that they know what their job is and that they do it well. The state's own graduation of over 30,000 high school students, it was supposed to be organised, it was supposed to create conditions but the same. Thanks to the support and the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Science and Education, we did it. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63345	Honorable representative of the Hajdash Doncic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63346	Thank you. Dear colleague listening to you, and it turns out that we are the 90% split as a nation and that absolutely everything is great in Croatia My dear colleague, I apologize, I say listening to you turns out to be that we've been split 90-95% so everything's great and great, but I'm going to look back at something else. [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. ……]] I'm going to look back at this educational-school system, so I don't agree with you. You know why I disagree? I think the state should have reacted even better in that. So Croatia is not Zagreb, so its children of course not all the accompanying infrastructure was available. I'm talking about Internet connections, fast connections, etc., and they couldn't keep up with class. The State was also to react and take then part of the cost that parents had when the children were at home. The cost of telecommunications or communication. And as the crown of everything, we can also comment on it together. Look at the first year of college where I teach I have 54 students out of it is just two vaccinated, you know what's interesting about all these measures, that they don't have to have a mask, and the rest of them have masks, and I don't need a mask. Look how confused everything is.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63347	Dear Representative Šimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63348	I thank my colleague. Yes, I disagree with you. You know why? Because because you said disinformation now. Every one of those students who didn't have teaching technology, whether it's about the Internet, whether it's about the laptop, the Ministry of Science and Education, is... Well, I'm the director... [[Intruder: You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63349	Come on, please, let's not get off the bench.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63350	...I was the head of the school in crisis, the biggest crisis, when the pandemic started. So, no student, find me a student, bring him in, talk about Zadar, Zadar County, but since I was a member of the chairmanship of the Association of High School Directors, I know the situation in all the county and simply that information does not stand. The Republic of Croatia has done everything in its power that every student in any place in Croatia has a laptop, has the Internet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63351	Dear MP Ahmentovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63352	Thank you very much. Your Honor, you're in a dig or my colleague's compartment, you're in the dumps. He's talking about Internet costs and you're talking about buying a laptop. All right. In your debate, you also praised the government and the national headquarters that they implemented excellent measures, how they were excellently controlling the pandemic, etc., etc., and you said that 45% of the people of the Republic of Croatia, I am now paraphrasing, being alone, those who have not been split, because 55% is just a number of displaced adult citizens of the Republic, so we sat at the bottom of the scale, more precisely in front of Bulgaria and Romania in the EU for the success of vaccinations. So I'm wondering if the problem with mistrust is national headquarters or trust, the mistrust of the government of the Republic of Croatia from those 45% of the citizens you're ordering to stay alone in your own loneliness?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63353	Dear Representative Šimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63354	Thank you, colleagues, official data is over 51%, so I don't know where you got that data from. You have, you have, you have one saying of the late government of the Gotovina who said that even the greatest fugitives would witness the tragedy that struck their people. So, when it was the Homeland War some fled, they returned to Croatia and are now preaching here. I'm talking here about the fact that Croatia currently has a vaccine for everyone and anyone who wants can be vaccinated. Whether or not someone is going to be vaccinated is voluntary, but expect nothing to happen in the country, that some people act like they're looking for everything that belongs to them, and they simply won't when they enter the workplace and take the test are positive or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63355	Thank you very much. The following will be spoken by respected representative Goran Ivanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63356	Thank you very much, Vice-President HS, dear ministers, State Secretary, Honorable colleagues and colleagues. When we debated here in HS sometime in February this year in the late morning, when there was not enough vaccine on the Croatian market, then some were inclined even if Croatia entered the Russian Federation to get Sputnik V which was then some kind of hit on the market and many called and made drama. Today we have vaccines that we can and thank God that we can donate it, but we have a problem that didn't come from itself, and you can't just blame that problem and headquarters, that's unfair. We're all part of it and we're all part of it, but we're part of it. I'll tell you one thing. About 9:00 this morning, my neighbor died who wasn't vaccinated. He died on a respirator. He was 56 years old. Someone still thinks in Croatia that people don't need a vaccine, that they're installing chips, that they're chipping us, that they're controlling us, and that people are dying just because they're being mistreated. It wasn't headquarters, it wasn't headquarters, and he said don't give people a shot, headquarters calls for vaccination. We all have to invite people to, it's the reach of science, it's the greatest reach of medicine in the past 2000, and still here I've heard from some colleagues let's take off our masks, let's not stick to measures, let's ignore it all. So please, it's not right, it's not fair. Maybe I'm looking at you, I don't think that's what you think. At first, this fight against covid was fought on two colossals. The first was much more important, the most important, today is the most important, which is to preserve the health of Croatian citizens. The second line was the economy and there was absolutely no speech and the government balanced it there between the two. I think she's balanced very skillfully and very skillfully. I'm going to talk about a group of Croatian citizens who were seriously threatened by the coronary virus. These are our cultural employees, they're employees who work in creative industries, so maybe one data that only knows part of the MPs, the creators of GDP participate with around 2.7%, it's not little, 2.7%, the European average is about 4.5%. The government is, or the Ministry of Culture and the media is practically immediately when the epidemic occurred, when it was seen that we would have problems that we had to close down, participated in the aids that Croatian artists today consume, whether it... No, no, slow down, I'll read mine, and you can, you can say this after me whatever you want. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63357	Please don't, let's not from the scene, I'm asking you nicely.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63358	So in a few measures, I have here a total of 14 spent by the government in 2020. and I have the measures that have been taken for 2021, a total of about 100 million kunas has been invested in this particular segment of Croatian culture for which, of course, war and when such a terrible epidemic occurs, must suffer the greatest damage. The Croatian government has heard, it has heard what I'm talking about, it has helped artists, it is helping them now, and here are the antigens, fast antigen tests, 5 million kunas from the budget of the Ministry of Culture and Media. Therefore, all those who claim that the Croatian government is not doing enough, that it does nothing, that we are the worst, that there are no worse than us in Europe, do harm, harm to the people who listen to us and who expect us to at least partially talk about numbers, facts, documents. Also, the last law we passed a week ago, the Law on Electronic Media, for the first time in Croatian history, required commercial media to separate 5% of their gross income from Croatian creative industries. Isn't that a good thing, isn't that a good move, especially when we're in this situation when the crown isn't done yet, and the question is when it will be. So here's what I wanted to talk to you about, five minutes of course not, not enough, but another time.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63359	We have multiple replicas, the first respected representative of Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63360	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague. Now you say you're expected to, all of us together to share the exact information. So, independent artists in the Republic of Croatia received four months' support in 19 months, four, three at the very beginning and one in January this year on a petition of artists. I know that, so we're sitting here, William Matula actor, Ursha Raukar actress, wife of musician Kekin. Do not speak false data, culturalists and artists did not receive any support from the entire economic sector. I will ask you, 10 centuries of Croatian state has not preserved Croatian politics, nor Croatian economy, but the Croatian culture that today is in this country, Croatia's own final hole in play.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63361	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63362	Mrs. Rauhar, there's no need for you to speak in a higher intonation, I hear absolutely well and I have good hearing. So, one measure, I said that this program went through about 20 measures, this is one of the measures you were talking about. Okay, as far as I'm concerned, I don't mind, though, if it can be helped, but I say that the Ministry of Culture and Media has found solutions, whether they're ideal, whether they're satisfactory, whether they could be more, stronger, better, otherwise, I don't mind and I'm on the side of the artist because I'm part of it myself. Therefore, I agree that they have preserved both culture and nation throughout the centuries, however, but I wasn't talking about one segment that you singled out. So, don't say that I've brought the false out here, that's not false. [[Intruder Reiner: Please let's not from the bench.]] One of the measures is that, whether it lasted four months, six or eight is something else. I'm not talking about the total sum. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63363	The next is the replica of the respected representative Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63364	Thank you very much. Dear colleague. I'm glad that part of your presentation has been devoted to artists who have really been going through a difficult period and are still going through a period of covid crisis and the fact is that the creative industry is really a guardian of culture and identity because creative work rests on people, is people actually creating content for people. And I can't agree when someone claims that this government has no ear for artists and no hearing about the creative industry, especially the last thing you said in the Law on Electronic Media, but it's also a fact, the fact that 100 million kuna went through direct support or different measures to artists in the field of creative industries, it's a fact to be talked about.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63365	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63366	Thank you, well-respected representative Bedekovic. Whatever you say from this pay phone, of course be experts, be doctors, be academics... won't like these people who smile at us and think about what they're even talking about, which is what they're wasting our time when we're at one higher level and intellectual and human and each other. We are, for them, a criminal organization that has been trying to impose this on us all morning as a thesis, and we should move in their backyard, start from their own examples, and some who have just entered power have already shown that they have a tendency. Because he's just waiting for us at the age ahead of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63367	My colleague Raspadić has done some damage to his rules of procedure. Which is where the Rules of Procedure got hurt.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63368	He's been injured. 238th Insultation, Disdainment of MPs. Being incompetent to our colleagues doesn't necessarily mean that they're dishonest, they're not yet ruled, so their incompetence automatically doesn't amnesty them out of possible dishonesty, but that needs to be proved. So it's not good that this is how they connect their case to yours where we have a final verdict.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63369	Okay, that's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I'm asking you to let's stick to the subject all together. The theme is we know that every so little goes into the widest, I kind of tolerate it, but not too much. Honorable representative, Dark Tarritash, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63370	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. Dear colleague. So each of us has his own way of talking, each of us has his own glasses, whether he's really wearing them or looking at things. I personally like to read numbers, I like to read data because they are what they are, sometimes someone can like it, and sometimes someone can't like it. So, there are data that clearly and unequivocally speak about the degree of fissure in Croatia and we cannot tell them that someone else or someone else is different and we are absolutely at the bottom of all EU countries. So there is some responsibility for it all together, there is responsibility for our personal why someone is being vaccinated or not being vaccinated, but there is the responsibility of this government, there is the responsibility of Prime Minister Plenkovic and there is the responsibility of Minister Beros. Come on, you explain it to me now. If all this was so wonderful, wonderful [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] Why is such a cleavage? [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63371	Why don't you go ahead and do it?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63372	Thank you very much. Surely one factor does not affect the final number, and that is absolutely clear to those who deal with numbers. It would be analyzed why we haven't crossed the 67, 70, 80% number, I figure vaccination as a man who occasionally works on a local medium to penetrate vaccination and tell people that they need to be vaccinated, that it's responsible, that it's the reach of science, medicine itself, and I've been vaccinated among those who have been vaccinated here in HS, and I belong to that category. Now, what else has to be done to cross some, some numbers I don't really know, but there are a lot of colleagues who explicit say don't get vaccinated. Don't be vaccinated. And that says one part of the profession, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63373	Thank you. Mrs. Mirela Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63374	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. A respected colleague of yours, Simičević, compares people who did not vaccinate with refugees from Croatia during the Homeland War. It's quite a grappling rhetoric. Yet you are trying to place responsibility for non-vaccination on all citizens and even those who have been vaccinated, even us who are really actively promoting vaccination. And I agree here with you and I, like you, at all times, invite people to be vaccinated. However, I do support it, but responsibility is not on you personally, nor on me personally for non-vaccination. You cannot exclude the national headquarters, you cannot exclude the Government of the Republic of Croatia or Minister Berosa of the same responsibility. So they're the ones who, by their own actions, by excessive vaccination, by disrespecting measures that they're propagating themselves that I'm not talking about furniture of competitions in vaccination-related programs, are propagating exactly that they don't need to be trusted. And that's why non-vaccination is like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63375	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63376	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63377	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go. And Mr. Shimičević, I thought because he got up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63378	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63379	Take off the mask to see, to hear well.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63380	A colleague injures Article 238, actually says what I did not say and leads people astray. So I'm just saying, I've quoted the late government as a cashier, and I've compared this Covid to the war, so the biggest fugitives will be witnesses to the tragedy that has hit their people. And we will now be all witnesses which happens to these Covid pandemics, especially [[Intruder: Thank you very much, time.]] The ones that didn't vaccinate, and I didn't... [[Intruder: Mr. Šimičević, Mr. Šimičević.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63381	One reminder, Mr. Shimičević. Shall we give the other one? No, right? It's a warning because it was a replica, is that, I mean, it's in itself understood, yes. Now we've had a gentleman, you've had to answer yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63382	Thank you very much. I think Mr. Simicevic is the best here I've explained what he wanted to say, I've just figured it out. I also consider you Mrs Ahmetovic a responsible politician and wife head of local self-government. But don't try to put something in my mouth I didn't say. I did not blame Croatian citizens, vice versa I tried to influence the awareness of Croatian citizens that I, perhaps some people know me more than you do, so through my example, Goran Ivanovic said in the assembly that we are being vaccinated and might go for vaccination tomorrow. It was my, my message, not taking responsibility off of itself, it was the transfer to Croatian citizens. But we must be aware that we are responsible in this situation. Of course, the hierarchy of responsibility is probably not equally distributed and it's logical, it's normal, but I want every statement I have here. be true, be explicit and eventually invite someone to do it... [[Intruder: Time.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63383	Mr. Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63384	Thank you very much. Comrade Ivanovic, here is listening to your debate on culture. We've heard from those in Zagreb that there's nothing they can do, that it's the last hole we've ever played. This means that in the city of Zagreb, the first hole was played and that through rebalancing they provided so much resources that the culture in Zagreb flourished. And we are witnessing that certain events are being docked daily, and here are almost those people who might be able to make some money, etc., not to say what might happen in the future. So these are some of our differences. And then when we look at what's going on in this media area, when we look at this situation in Holding, when we look at this situation where Mrs. Bencic is leading the mediation in the party, in the official premises, where counsellors, etc. replaced directors are offered as we read in the media and advisory services, meaning...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63385	And the communicable diseases where they're at?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63386	...so I'm talking about his debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63387	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63388	But I'm sorry, about his discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63389	But I'm sorry... For that, I'm sorry, but put a little Covid in so I don't give you a warning. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63390	So what...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63391	Say, tell Covid... Tell Covid [[Applause.]] Please, please, please, just tell Covid and let's move on. [[You've taken my time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63392	Covid. Well, there is no situation, and these situations can't solve the Covid pandemic that they do in Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63393	That's right, thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63394	Thank you very much, dear colleague Boric, yes, you see how much it is, how much it is sometimes, although ironic but one part absolutely correct. We've been suffering all day, and since last night, it's already started since 16 o'clock and 50 minutes of what we are the worst, the way we've ruined everything, how we've all... Slow down, slow down, don't say that, don't say that, don't say that. [[Intruder: You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63395	I'm sorry, no dialogue, no dialogue.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63396	Tell someone that a thief, to me as a member of the HDZ who's been doing it since 1989 and I haven't stolen anyone's kuna, is a dangerous thesis. You can single out from a group of masters of Sanader, this one, that one, you can go free, but to me, but to try me, these honorable people sitting here Insinuate into it [[Intruder: Please.]] I don't think it's particularly polite, it's not collegiate, we're still some fellow parliamentary representatives here. [[Intruder: Please.]] Maybe we're not the same ideologically, but we should [[Intruder: Thank you very much, time.]] behaved. [[Intruder: Time, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63397	Thank you very much, time, time, thank you, thank you. Oh, well, Mrs. Ljubica Lukacic, I know she'll stick to the subject until the end, she has her own debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63398	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister with an associate, dear colleagues and colleagues, here I am going to take a brief look around when it comes to vaccinations on people with disabilities. I already mentioned here at one point today that people with disabilities can be an example of many. Why am I saying that? Many people with disabilities for their health reasons, regardless of the diagnosis they are being diagnosed with, often consider whether to vaccinate or not when it comes to any vaccine, especially now that the coronary vaccine has come, it was not easy to decide whether to inject or not. However, in a series of conversations with persons with disabilities, we all came together to the conclusion that we have no choice but to believe the profession, to believe medicine because we already have in the final and so long life experience with doctors and nurses and how we have trusted them through life so far, we have nothing left but to do so. I have to say on this occasion that HZZ when it comes to people with disabilities, I would say impossible. We have provided vaccines for people with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia and for all persons with disabilities and even those with rare diseases. When we asked HZJZ if these or they could be vaccinated, we received an answer that many encouraged us when they told us that not only those with fever can be vaccinated and that all the diagnosis can actually be vaccinated, when your temperature passes you might actually be vaccinated and those who have an allergy to the vaccine. HZZ has transferred to the county institutions to do just as much as possible to vaccinate as many people with disabilities possible. On this occasion, I would also like to thank the associations of people with disabilities who have made transport possible and all that is necessary for people with disabilities to come to certain places that have been organised for vaccination and who are sure that people with disabilities can come with their big help. And in the end, I would say, most people with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia have been vaccinated, of course there are those who haven't done it, but let them do it, and let them think for themselves, it's more important to protect their health than even to vaccinate our householders, more importantly to vaccinate ourselves. I believe that many who have not done so will think because, as I said, we have to trust the profession, we have to trust our doctors because in the end Papa Francis said that we have to trust the profession, so I believe that here we will listen to him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63399	Thank you, Mrs. Lukacic. Now it's Mr. Marin Miletic who will have his own debate. You can come right now because it's already been cleaned before the pay phone. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63400	Mr Furio Radin, the Honorable Vice-President of HS, Mr. Bukarica, the Honorable Mr. Minister with his associate, dear colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to talk to you today about covid and someone, and I need to talk about it with the Prime Minister's sexual metaphor. Covid exists, there is among us, there is no joke among us, it is dangerous for the old, for the powerless people, for the sick people, for those with anxiety, for the threats, and for them the most dangerous, for all others is a small percentage of the danger. The sufferers have strong immunity, many studies speak and several times stronger than those who have been vaccinated twice. Not to be an unobstructed critic, it's a good thing we kept one discreet path to the pandemic in view of us not going crazy like that. our neighbours in Slovenia. The consequences of lockdown of these measures are huge gatherings, inflation, the increase of mental illnesses, the increase of all other diseases and unfortunately the loss of life of many citizens who die of these other diseases, and not ultimately of the covid itself. We heard from some MPs today, so I'm completely shocked to admit, I couldn't get myself to drink well, that those who choose should not be vaccinated should bear the costs of the vaccination themselves. First of all, I'd like to ask everyone to stop sharing the people and sticking to vaccinations and not being vaccinated, enough is enough of that. Secondly, gentlemen, MPs, but Croatian citizens pay their health insurance on average is 20,000 kuna per year. Does that mean that, for example, I haven't been in the hospital in 10 years, will it pay me back every 10 years for 200,000 kuna? That would be great, let me travel around a little bit more, or then that analogy these agents want to say that smokers who have chosen to smoke in their freedom, and there are a lot of colleagues here, so get sick of some lung disease or tumor that you will pay for your treatment yourself, what really? Let's go further on concrete data there is the minister he will confirm, official data 14,000 a year in Croatia dying from the consequences of smoking, 14,000 people, it's one city, it's Makarska, it's Metkovic and it's the end of the year they're gone. If we forbid smoking to protect people, but I have the right to smoke, you won't smoke because I'm a country and I'll explain what's good for you, and what's not and you won't smoke, I forbid you to smoke, 14,000 people die every year from smoking. So, 8,000 pardon 8 million people, listen now, at the world level, dying from smoking, and 900,000 non-smokers die from passive smoking. But in this story, there's no other cost, is there? There's no billions of dollars of vaccine profits, there's no interest groups, there's not a billion of profits on some tests, just PCR tests 2 billion. So, I don't want Croatia like this, I don't want Croatia in which the citizens won't be free to decide, to expose themselves to them and explain everything to them, but then to be free people to decide. And you know what, in the world, so 8,000 kids, primary school age dies of hunger every day. Imagine that the whole world has joined together and that, if we'd decided to stop hunger, imagine just that, but there's no profit here again. I read in the media in the afternoon of our prime minister's release in front of the press, it really shocked me, it's obviously under a lot of stress, so something that's hidden deep inside of him comes out. A superficial analysis of the language and metaphors of the prime minister's outburst may well conclude some psychological behavior. That's how he accused us MOSTs of experiencing this, to me this is vomit and a word, but I'll tell you, orgasms. And my premiere at the Freedom Festival, we don't need a Prime Minister who's paranoid, and we don't need his sexual metaphors and me personally and we MOSTs are some kind of joke. Is it possible that the prime minister's vulnerabilities are because he's separated from the people, here's what I don't know. We may be like MOST prime ministers and attractive, maybe one of us a little more than others, but the people are not attracted to his policies. And honestly, you know what, we're not really interested in him either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63401	Wow, that was that sexual component you said at the beginning... Uh, uh, I was hoping a little more but it doesn't matter. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] - Mrs. Crescent. It's a pulac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63402	Dear colleague, just to tell you that smoking is forbidden in certain areas, so in the official offices, inside, here even in the assembly should be prohibited, but here you are smoking here and there by the official clubs, so you have a smoking ban. But here, I was actually going to ask you to give me your comment, do you agree with the fact that vaccination is the greatest achievement in medicine, in medical science, in the history of medicine, and that it eradicated some diseases like the great goddesses, polio, measles, tetanus, etc., here's the thing, do you agree?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63403	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63404	Comrade Puljak, forgive me for perhaps now my emotional depression, so I wasn't in the cave until yesterday. So, first of all, my sister is a doctor, works as an anesthesiologist, my brother is a scientist in Japan, I've vaccinated all my children, so I don't have a problem with that, I'm vaccinated with all the vaccines, but I've decided by my conscience not to vaccinate against covids. I'm entitled to it, so, and in the end I'm over the ministers, I'm over it, those antibodies are to me I don't even know I'm 6 million you understand or how much, so I'm entitled to it. I'm upset by my terrible colleague Puljak when someone imposes something on me, no one can impose anything on me, you can explain it to me, I listen to you, and if it's justified I accept it because a man at the level of reason and reason accepts it, and when you impose something on me, so my whole being rebelled, I get a crush, so when you tell me something, I don't have to do anything, and I can do anything. And there's the key to my personal behavior and thinking in this regard. And I just wanted to point out the illogicality of smoking and hunger, the hypocrisy of this world because people die, and they don't want to be helped. I'm cute, so he lets me have a colleague named Radin for three seconds. [[Intruder: Yes]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63405	Not that, but this, what you said, what you said about smoking and about banning cigarettes about it, you should think about it a little bit. ... Mr. Bozo Petrov, here's your replica. [[/Speakers speak at the same time, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63406	Dear colleague Miletic, can you explain to me the relationship between me the unbalanced statements of the Prime Minister, especially today and his way of dealing with this crisis and solving covids, although it would be more interesting for me to explain one positive correlation in emotions between colleagues from We can! with the emotions of the Prime Minister because when he's happy and they're happy, when he's unhappy and nervous and they're nervous and unhappy, it's not clear to me too much, but here's what you choose to answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63407	Thank you very much. Please, please, here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63408	Look, I need you to let me go of my colleague, Radin, thank you. So like this, so I'm really boned by the Prime Minister's statement, he seemed rather complicated and balanced, and this is still let me think he's under a lot of stress and that, not to be controlled, even to mention and say we're NBI, says I'm NBA. Since I'm playing basketball, and I'm waiting for the atroscopy, here's the minister knows, at the end of the season, I'm playing you another league, I'd tell the prime minister to go to the 21st, and you're leading 15:0 and just let him be my ball, I'm not sure I'd get two baskets stuck, so that's who the NBA is, that's the question, but we can come to the field, I'm always ready for that challenge, here it is, thank you. ... Yeah, wait till I answer that, so yeah. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] Like this, I think everyone has the right to occasional outbursts because we're human beings of flesh and blood. I had one today, too, colleague Kekin, I'm sorry and no colleagues, so otherwise I'm a man of emotion, inside me is your heart like Ucka, and then I go, I die, and I'm done, that's it. So I apologize if I offended anyone, anyone here in the assembly, my colleagues from HDZ and everything, and I'm just like that... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63409	Thank you, thank you, thank you. Now we're drilling Ucka.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63410	Don't tell me I'm left-handed.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63411	Mr. Nino Rasdic, please. Please, please, Mr. Crucifixe, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63412	Dear counterpart Miletic, I also noticed today that the prime minister used an unusual register and that sexual metaphor that some of the MOSTs experienced orgasms at the Freedom Festival. Since you were there, you were neither organizer nor speaker, but I suppose you went to see what was going on, could you convey your real experience to us so that the public would not remain confused with Plenkovic's words. So, what did you think with that meeting, what did you see out there at that rally?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63413	Just a little bit, Mr. Miletić, I have to give you my word, you don't have to answer if you don't want to.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63414	But I will. So, my wife was still alive then, and I don't have any orgasms over anyone, and Daniel and I have been since I was 16 years old, and I've never been with another woman, so he knows that I've been there and he wouldn't go down to that level at all. And no other orgasms in any way have I ever experienced with anyone in my life, so I'm sorry. I really respect, I'm a legalist, so the prime minister, he's not the prime minister of the HDZ, and if he's my country's prime minister, he's my prime minister, because I disagree with him, I'll fight it, but he's my prime minister. I speak mine, what shall I do, so he is the prime minister of the Republic of Croatia. But this was just me, it was hard for me, you know, let God see everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63415	Thank you very much. Mrs. Bencic, no, no, you still have Mrs. Bencic's replica yet.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63416	Dear colleague. Let's not forget to say, first of all, you're saying you often highlight the values of freedom as the basic value on which you base your argument, so you were comparing the question, let's say, here's the freedom of smokers with the question of freedom of spread of infection. I will tell you that, therefore, in our Constitution, and it is generally accepted that every freedom has its limits in the freedom of another, probably and you know it, so here I am as the smoker you called freedom is a lack of freedom with the freedom of another to not smoke in closed spaces next to them and so often it is not comfortable for me, but it is so that I must respect it. But one more thing, when you were already talking about freedom and mentioning us in replicas, I must tell you, you took advantage of your freedom twice to join the coalition with HDZ, and the same way you used it. You also had your responsibility in the elections, so the citizens told you very clearly what they thought twice. [[Intruder Radin: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63417	Mr. Miletic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63418	May I? Comrade Bencic, don't mind me all those colleagues who tried to build a bridge and invest themselves and every effort is important, let me not mind this today, today's Bridge is forgive me if I can finish it is a different bridge, people have recognized it clearly we are composed in all worldly and other respects and the Croatian people who are following us, at the end which gave us both trust and Mir Bulju in Sinj and all of us who competed with certain citizens is a very clear indication that the Bridge is actually beginning their story. [[Intruder Radin: Yes, yes.]] I apologize if I hurt you with something, it wasn't my intention.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63419	Thank you very much. You're done with the replicas today. Now Mr. Nino Rasdic is on the move. Thank you. Loved. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63420	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister. My colleagues and colleagues. Much has been said today and I think a lot has been said in the metrics of de facto all the arguments of one, the other and the third, but there may be something to say at the meta level of the debate itself not only in the assembly but also in the public. Two words that are often referred to include responsibility and discipline or science may even be better said by the science of a profession. When we talk about responsibility, Minister Beros found himself at the very beginning of his term in a situation that no man would wish for, there was a pandemic state that was not clear about what extent there was a whole new disease so that all the mistakes that occurred in the first months and not only with us but also globally clear can be justified by the ignorance of the situation and the desire, and the modern world developed is increasingly seeking to avoid any risk as much as possible. They took on great responsibility has fallen them and I will repeat once again what I have said, all this will end and the undertones will be drawn, all accounts and responsibilities and political, perhaps some criminal and criminal and people who have led this process not only with us but also the wider ones will either get the highest state honors or end up in prison, it seems to me that the environment is gone, and I want them to be the first to show that in the important things were right and to say here it's all over, you seemed as fair as you could have decorated you. Speaking of responsibility, the motto is “The vaccine is thought of by others, ” which can be viewed as a form of moral blackmail. So, even though you may be young and healthy and is a minimal risk, we already have huge statistics, but you have to think of others, and then it turns out that the vaccine looks something less, but I can still carry the disease. So why do we give them covid certificates and drag them in falsely in the belief that they can't be contagious so they can get into hospitals and they don't need to be tested, and we can see that they can. So are we now in a paradoxical situation that we need to find a way to protect the unvaccinated from the vaccines that carry the infection, and they have these passes that they can come anywhere? So what about those who are over who I am who have high antibodies that are slightly attached to three months first, six months, and now maybe a year, even though research shows that resistance is much higher than that of the two vaccinated? When we talk about others there is the problem is that not all parameters are involved, which is simplified, thoughts of others means thoughts of children and young people who have already stolen two years of almost childhood and life, children who may not know their teacher without a mask, children who he has attended a school for which research has shown that de facto learn nothing online can learn anything from a person who is mature, formed and highly motivated for the content he wants to learn. It's hard for someone in the 6th basic for linear equations to be highly motivated and that online will learn about like in a real, real school. Think of others, it should mean thoughts of mental illness that we already have proven to have increased greatly because of all these measures and imprisonment and the end of normal social and social life and all the valves that people are closed to, and that's also the theater, it's a football game, it's also a birdie if you want. Think of others as referring to the victims of domestic violence that has been increased due to these traumatic circumstances that have been imposed by measures. Think of others as thinking of those who have not been examined, which is one third less ordered and thousands, perhaps tens of thousands of people who will die of cancer and other diseases because their health problems have not been detected in time. So if we're already looking at it from that perspective of moral blackmail then let's turn on all these parameters, because the story is complex, the story is not simple. And all these risks need to be calculated in the final assessment of what measures we will take. The fact that it's a profession, which is really science is best told by the initial decision that the headquarters is not run by the health minister as in other European countries where these people run the story, rather than by the police minister who finished general defence and social self-defense. So much for the profession, I won't mention Nobel laureate Montaigne and John Ioannidis mentioned today, in Croatia it turns out that some journalists with medium professional equipment are on portals where they pay them on black through student service more qualified than Nobel Prizers and world's most quoted epidemiologists, but here's our reality and that's what needs to be taken into account.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63421	Mr. Grmoya, first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63422	Thank you. Dear Rasudiæ, you have pointed out well that very little talk is made about our young people who have lost a part of their childhood, so oh, actually, about the impact of all these measures and everything that happens in society and on their education and on social contacts and on life in general. So, and generally what we've been saying since the beginning as much as the Prime Minister doesn't know us, and I don't think these statements have been directed at anyone personally, but is trying to stick to that label, actually wants us to be portrayed as some kind of unreasonable people, and we just want this whole epidemic and everything that's going on, and so the measures themselves are looking at all of it. And their influence, but also the impact of the epidemic itself on all segments of our lives. And we've advocated that from the beginning and that only in the end will we actually be able to give a final assessment of what Minister Beros was doing, as did the Government. But it's the headquarters itself. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] How do you comment? [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63423	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63424	It's about a new and complex reality. We, as a civilized community, must defend the right to complexity, and what we constantly want to impose is a division into black and white. I didn't accidentally ask the question about the Festival of Freedom and the inappropriate sexual metaphors of the Prime Minister because what's the problem with a parliamentary representative going there? Why is Plenkovic pointing out? Why wouldn't the parliamentary representative these people chose listen to what part of the people, why did they get together, why are they unhappy and what they say? I haven't been, I've been listening through the media, I've heard some too many things, I've heard complete nebuloses from these blasphemous statements of the guy who says that Jesus Christ sent him to someone who says it's a mild cold, and I ended up in the hospital for five days. But it wasn't all black either. But the fact that someone with such a dirty metaphor forbids a parliamentary representative or shows it as his great sin to go to a registered legal set of citizens where they bring up some opinions is out of my mind and an indicator as far as we're concerned. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63425	Thank you very much. Mr. Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63426	Dear colleague Rasdic, you've done very well with the risk, he's still at the research stage, he'd like to add another risk. We who are people from the field therefore have received complaints about 50 to 70 km from Zagreb that the doctors of family medicine do not want to issue instructions unless people are vaccinated. And I don't think it's good for our society, so it's still at the stage of the investigation because then we'd go public with it, but if that's true, we're asking that, too, to consider what you're saying about blackmailing people, so they won't be given instructions unless they're vaccinated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63427	If that's the case. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63428	I think the laws apply to things and people's behaviors. You need to take responsibility. Have them declare mandatory vaccination. Why didn't they declare mandatory vaccination for all the older than 18 or all the employees or particularly employees of these, these public institutions? Well, obviously because if it were legal and clear and procedurally prescribed it would mean taking responsibility for it, which is obviously not what you want, and then some kind of parakanals and pressures directly or indirectly want to achieve one goal, and in order to avoid responsibility and it's not right. So let them choose to declare mandatory vaccination.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63429	Mr. Bozo Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63430	Dear colleague, you can tell me if you've met any medical evidence, which analyses have been taking measures and if you haven't met whose responsibility it is. Also what I'm interested in, what are the consequences of such irresponsibility. And I'm also interested in how much the prevention of infectious diseases has brought in the double standards that we've witnessed in the last year and a half. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63431	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63432	Double criteria have contributed to the decline of trust in the work of headquarters and generally ruling in the management of this Covid crisis, they have been on the one hand to make fun of Nobels, virologists, and on the other hand, that people with medium expertise impose themselves as authority for this issue are total degradation of professions because they are righteous in accordance with the dogm, and these are past the dogms although they are the right profession. So in this situation it seems to me that whatever man absolutely says is always partly wrong. It's not easy for them, but people needed to be spoken to more openly and honestly then trust would be greater. Here I will give you just one example since the second point is the head director of HRT, I have asked this question to one candidate who speaks about pluralism, you have the show "Open" on the covid certificates in hospitals, 5 guests, all 5 present one point of view. And then no wonder people believe anything they see on the Internet that's different.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63433	Thank you very much. Mr. Bojan Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63434	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Rasudiæ, with some of the things in your debate, may agree, with some not, but means purely in the context of what your text is, this and the speech I've been listening to, I only have a few questions. So, people who have been vaccinated can also be infected and transmitted, but there's a much smaller chance, it's a significantly smaller chance that both will happen if they're vaccinated, which leads us to another thing. So the point of thinking of others is how I realized it without the intention of defending anyone, but that's the thing of Semantics in some way because we're discussing it is to prevent the collapse of the health system. It's not such a problem, of course someone can have milder symptoms, someone much harder, but what we saw in Italy is a health collapse, even in Zagreb after all, that's why it seems to me the point of thinking about others. And the question I'd ask is what's an acceptable loss, so... We can say it's to finish the thought [[Intruder: Thank you]] So, which is an acceptable loss [[Intruder: Which is an acceptable loss]] whose grandfather, grandmother or father, mother, brother, sister [[Thank you very much, thank you very much.]] They've accepted the loss if we don't think of others, right? [[/Intruder: Mr. Glavasevic's time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63435	Mr. Crucifixion response.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63436	What you point out as a goal I get with him based on all this I've heard, studied, consulted with people of different professions, I think I agree with that. It is only necessary to prevent the collapse of the health system and to allow the population to be vaccinated to this level. And I'm going to reverse the pill upside down, so I'm going to say what's acceptable to you is if it's 50,000 dead of cancer and other diseases that are going to die because they're not going to be examined because of this situation that's been created, whether it's 30,000 cases of mental illness in children in the next 15 years, is that 2,500 victims of family violence more that will happen, so let's calculate all these parameters before we simplify the story of grandparents who are going to die. The story is complicated and should simply calculate all parameters, but with this purpose I agree, but they did not explicitly pronounce it, but it would be good to say it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63437	No more replicas, thank you. Now it's Mr. William Matula's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63438	Thank you, dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Mr. Minister with his associates, this morning when I started replicating you, I have to admit I was caught. I really didn't do any quiz when I asked you those questions. Mr. Minister, those were two sub-questions, I'm asking you colleagues, if you can't, then I'll just beg a little later to speak while you sort it out. I want to say this, to be honest, I've asked two questions to Minister Beros this morning in a replica that listens to the tram, I understand in a hurry you're probably not among the citizens, in the cafes, people have this app where you compare has that chart on the crown of this statistic, and there any day if you type you can see what it was like, you understand. But that you, I was caught up in it because I was completely different questions and the second goal of my replica was. But I'm really limited that you in the headquarters together with Professor Markotic, with Dr. Capak, that you don't know, but at least approximately, so I didn't expect you to tell me exactly, here I am allowing you not to have to do it exactly, not honestly, but that you don't see what Dr. Maric said, which everyone says we've come to disastrous numbers last year from the direction in which it went, this year earlier, and you're constantly at that point that I wanted to talk about just talking about tourism and that you all keep talking about tourism and the success of tourism. Minister, how is it possible that you are not looking at the fact that this year we have been given a double-vaccinated number of tourists from Germany and Britain who have filled Dubrovnik and all the elaphate that was not last year, people who have been vaccinated twice, is that your success, is that your success, so why didn't you write it in that report, but you're being disgusted here with your colleague, this is how you disgust yourself. We probably have to say from the green-left block that of course we're for vaccination, twice I've been vaccinated, and I'm going to be inoculated, and I'm still going to be wearing masks, and I'm going to be at a distance because this is going to take a long, long time, when it started from one respected epidemiologist who teaches, who has no chance of getting into your headquarters of any, our epidemiologists, I know right away, and everyone who was ahead of her that will last at least until the end of '21, that's what she told us before the vaccine came out, and that her friends and colleagues in Spain claim that they're afraid of everything and that it's well split and '22, now we know it'll last. Now, you, if we're going to talk about responsibility, and we need to talk about your responsibility, about the credibility that you ministers just did last year when there were a number of your colleagues and here was that long session at that session you were going out there, you were answering, now you're stoically putting up with it. You then concluded very well that you cannot defend and that you are not responsible for a number of patients, you are not responsible for them, you are not responsible for doctors who in those situations are struggling on all of these and are now threatening the exact same thing again. And you, when it came out of the advice of some of the most important who mocked this particular Mr. Lauc and called him I don't know Dr. Lauc. Dum, what do you call it? Then these people came back again because it was seen that it was a huge political damage, but then that you resigned you would have kept the dignity and authority of the profession and would also be a politically important factor in the future. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63439	Mr. Matula, time, you have one replica you can stay. Mr. Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63440	Thank you very much. Here's since fellow Matula has been infected every day, here I'm asking you how long it was 31.8.2021 a day... How many have been infected on 31.8.2021, which includes this report since you know all these numbers.../The speakers speak at the same time./... [[Matula: I can't hear you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63441	Without dialogue, please answer later. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63442	So what date?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63443	Mr. Matula, there can be no dialogue you wait, stop the chronometer now go ahead, and then you will answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63444	Let's start over, Mr. Matula claims that the minister needs to know every day how many infected there are and that it's a miracle that he doesn't know that. I ask him at 31.8. Furthermore, you support everything that is supported by public health, let's say area in the Republic of Croatia and as much as I read during the summer, you support everything Mr. Djikic says. He advocates, for example, much more stringent measures than we do today if we follow them well. If you're on his side or Mr. Bakic's side who looks very differently or Mr. Lauc from the subject, you have to tell us that because if you support everything that public health is doing, then tell us why you don't support this report because it's the work of this public health, so you can't be in collage all the time. And you won't make it as far as it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63445	Thank you very much. Answer me, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63446	Here's what I'm gonna say. Thank you, dear Vice President, I apologize. Col. Boric, here's the information that's scary, so on the 31st and 25th and 28, it's hard for you now... on this one it's in between, that you can laugh about it, but you can look at it,... [[Intruder Radin: Here you go.]] 668 dead? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'm telling you how many are dead, I'm telling you how many are dead. Now that we support public health and that, I'm talking very clearly about the minister's role and how much authority he's lost in the profession, among doctors, among nurses, among nurses, among technical staff, which is why he's so late, which is why doctors can't raise at least For 10. 15% of this cleavage, that's what it's all about. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63447	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. And now we have a 10 minute break of technical nature that we're looking for our video technicians for... they have to share videos without other options. So at 18.25, we move on. It's 6:15 a.m. Let's continue the debate, Mrs. Mariana Puljak is on her way. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 18.25 HOURS]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63449	Are we focused, may I?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63450	What's the matter?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63451	I'm saying we're focused and everyone in their movie is.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63452	I don't get it. What's the big deal?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63453	Yeah, yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63454	Please, please, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63455	So here's to, in this sequel, I'm going to invite all citizens to split. Vaccination is indeed the greatest achievement in the history of science since vaccination against measles, great goddesses, polio, tetanus until today vaccines against Covid. So some of these diseases have been eradicated thanks to the vaccine, we have been vaccinated enough to protect those most vulnerable among us who cannot be vaccinated due to various medical indications, allergies and the like. Also, high fissure will help us get rid of these boring crowns, I believe it's boring for everyone and get back to normal life without restrictions. Vaccinated people, if they develop milder symptoms, get over the disease at home, don't end up in the hospital, don't end up on the respirator, here's the news of a famous young musician, 52 years old, who died in a hospital on a respirator from the coronal virus. So if you don't want to end up on a respirator, you don't want to end up in a hospital, think about yourself first and vaccinate. You are free to do not trust any further this government, you are free not to trust a minister, is anyone here and trusted after that verdict yesterday, but believe science and believe in vaccination is the greatest achievement of science to date. Let us see a paradox here, and in this pandemic, even the largest anti-vaxers who persistently spread their mistrust with experts when Covid had a hard time getting help from the same experts they attacked. And now about one aspect of the pandemic's consequences, I'm going to take advantage of this opportunity, and what the minister can hear, I asked him today and in the replica, and then that's the consequence that affects the mental health of the citizens, mostly of the children. I'm also going to issue a representative's question, so I'm asking the minister to answer here later in his presentation and later in writing. So, as I said recently, on the Committee on Science, Education and Culture, we had the results of research conducted by the Institute of Social Research and found that earthquakes and Covid had a particularly negative impact on the mental health of students and how to help these children. How to help them when there is no hospital bed for children and adolescents who need help from psychiatrists from Prevlaka to Zagreb, so across Dalmatia, there is no hospital bed for children and adolescents. These children today lie illegally in adult wards or parents of those who can financially afford water in hospitals in Zagreb or Osijek. In Osijek, which only has a separate ward for children and adolescents who need the help of psychiatrists. So, here's if you can imagine this parent situation that has such a child doesn't know and can't put him anywhere. Imagine your mother, and some have spoken to us, a mother who spoke to us with a child who suffers or suffers from autism, a disease from autistic spectrum that is in teens, entering a time when it becomes extremely aggressive. There's no place to put a child like that in a hospital. Split Hospital, the Split KBC hospital currently does not have any psychiatrists of child adolescent psychiatry, and parents like I said who need this help are taking them to Osijek whether or not in Zagreb. They must also find an apartment to be near the child and, of course, not everyone can afford it, and the pressure on these hospitals in Zagreb and Osijek is getting bigger and bigger. The Split KBC actually has a child psychiatrist, however, a doctor who did so was on sick leave, a long-time child psychiatrist after 15 years of fighting whether to establish a special department decided more that he no longer wants to deal with children and no longer deals with children. It is not just a difficult situation in the Split hospital, such a situation in all of Croatia, children's adolescent psychiatrists in all of Croatia are 45, and it is estimated that they should be around 140. So the need for this specialization is getting more and more pronounced because more and more children have serious mental problems especially now in the pandemic era. The concern of mental health is now kind of popular, you see it often in advertising, there are some campaigns going on, and here we are talking about it in the assembly, but here I call on the minister, I call on the government to really solve a particular problem and allow children who need help to have a hospital bed in the region of Dalmatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63456	Thank you. Mr. Matula, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63457	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues, Vice President Reiner this morning in his first speech he spoke about how in the summers Portugal, Italy and Cyprus who have much more split than us, but there they had no green and orange coast like we did thanks to the genius solutions of Minister Beros and his headquarters. Then after that he talks about how Italy, Spain, Cyprus have over EUR 2,000 per capita investment unlike us who have 860, whether it's actually an academic Rainer that might even have to reduce that number, so we'll be even better because we had this genius, I don't know if that or what the point is you think such amazing comparisons that can only have to do with happiness, I don't know what genius of the headquarters is that with such small money he solves.../The speaker excluded....
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63458	Thank you very much. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63459	Well, here's what I'd like to say is that the answers to the headquarters's representatives and here the minister is whether it's genius or if we can draw a conclusion or the less we invest, the better our results are whether or not. I'd say it's actually the other way around. In addition, we are investing considerable money in our health care, and one of the reforms that this government also advocates and all governments so far, and I don't know how many mandates have passed in this, each election goes into the fact that one of the key reforms with that judiciary, the local self-government, is one of the key reforms of health reform, so that this health care is also optimized and made really reformal moves, that all of us who have been investing in this health care get a quality service at the end of the year, but here I call on the headquarters to really discover that the secret of how it is to spend less and get better results.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63460	No more replicas, thank you. Now it's Mrs. Devereaux's turn. Dalia Oreshkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63461	The Honorable Chairman, fellow MPs and MPs. Today, more or less of a day's debate on this agenda point, we have devoted ourselves to in some way a little bit and arguing about who vaccinated, who didn't vaccinate, why he didn't vaccinate, who needed to be vaccinated, who shouldn't have been vaccinated. And I believe this question must not be our only focus or our main focus. All of us MPs are bound first and foremost by the article. 81. The constitution of the Republic of Croatia which requires us to monitor and control the government's work among other things, and so on this specific item of the agenda, we would have to include both the verification and control of the rationality and justification of the spending of financial resources. Such control is not possible, nor can this report be carried out, despite any tables contained in this report, and neither any other publicly available or otherwise available data provide the possibility of carrying out any control or control or checking the way the financial resources have been spent, we cannot know who the suppliers of certain material products used to protect the population from Covid-19, we do not know what individual prices were, we do not know how or whether there is any control of the use of medical material on the ground, who is carrying out this control, we do not know whether this crisis is being used for hunting in a cloudy and whether there are any new, any new profits. We can rightly suspect that the political party that is currently acting in power has an allegation and is quite skilled at spending public funds in the wrong way and for the wrong purposes, so in itself this would be a problem, because without the possibility of carrying out too much of the specific data-based verification, there is no fundamental feature that any order, and so our constitutional order, if it wants to retain that property of democracy must have. So in the sense that it's written in the constitution, we're not the state we're supposed to be today, so the first basic and most important postulate of democracy is the division of power and the system of mutual brakes and balances. And the order that we have today is something quite different, and now we can discuss what would be appropriate for the situation in which HDZ is ruling, but certainly this democracy is not. The word that I have used for many days is described by the HDZ government as kidnapping syndrome, and perhaps such a description could have been worth or fit the situation that existed until yesterday, but since yesterday, a political party who has been legally convicted of corruption is acting in power and simply has no description, has no legal, legal name. This report lists some aggregated data on how the funds were spent and the present minister expects us to trust him. I think that this resolution minister, as well as the government as a whole, has lost that right to demand or expectations from us on a political stage or the right of citizens to expect us to continue to trust them. The entire fight against covid was based on the words be responsible, be responsible, you citizens be responsible independently of what the complete HDZ denies today and refuses to recognise any responsibility. The political party that has the most famous and powerful political slogan ever "Knows" argues that in a situation where the entire political party stole our money from public funds for its needs through a person who was then at the head and had all the political power in his hands today claims that he did not know, today no one knew anything. And how do you expect respected ministers that we can trust that you spent the sums for the reporting period for publicly justified purposes? Political power which does not have this fundamental property of citizens' trust, this authority it [[Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.]] She lost, she can't stay in power anymore. [[Intruder: Thank you,...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63462	- Mrs. Crescent. Barbara Antoliæ Vupra has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63463	Your Honor, ma'am. MPs. So you're talking about spending money, you're talking about amounts they don't know about, citizens don't know, somebody knows. Have you thought about donations that are not publicly available to all citizens or were you just thinking about medications or medical material that was spent in hospitals?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63464	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63465	I mean all of the above. I think that, among other things, we have the right to ask whether the money spent is justified in terms of quantities, bearing in mind the number of inhabitants and the number of Croatian citizens. Since the beginning of this government, there has been a way of passing that word of transparency, I don't know where today's representative is calling for his local unit to be most transparent about the entry and exit of individual items. And these entry and output items on such large numbers, on really serious numbers for which the Republic of Croatia is fat, fat in charge of generations that are coming, we don't really know if we should have spent that money on these purposes at all. These are too large amounts in the hands of a political option that is prone to steal. Proved by a powerful verdict, it has been determined that it is a tendency to steal, and today we have paid the least of our attention to this issue and to this problem of all that has been said today. And it's our responsibility, us, [[Thank you. Thank you.]] The opposition, not the authorities. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63466	Ma'am, thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Ursha Raukar Gamulin, will now have her debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63467	I would like to thank Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Minister with the Secretary of State. So today there's been talk about a lot of things, and I'd say something about some situations that I don't think have talked about enough, so that's what the report says are worrying figures about the increase in the crime of domestic violence. 39.2% in 2020 increases compared to last year and 18.2% in these crimes in the first 7 months of this year compared to last year. So this terrible fact is being realized and that's all. No indication of what is being taken or at least going to be taken to stop this frightening trend and, of course, reduces, which is directly related to the consequences of the Covida-19 pandemic and should be seriously caught in this problem, in this context of course, it should be stressed that the Chief of Staff of Civil Protection Mr Bozinovic is also the Minister of Police, so it is more surprising that the report lists only numbers and no strategies or plans to do so. Also, among the most serious consequences of the Covida-19 pandemic is the risk of mental health. Unfortunately, because of these circumstances mental health has finally come into the sphere of public interest and the media, but unfortunately not in the sphere of interest of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, nor in the Civil Protection Staff, there is almost no word in this Report on Mental Health. It is mentioned in a parallel sentence that special attention will be paid to mental health after Covida-19 is over. As a matter of fact, there is no word on that. So neither was the fact that the threat of mental health has increased markedly in the circumstances of the Covida-19 pandemic, and the Government of the Republic of Croatia has not yet sent the national strategy for the protection of mental health, although there is information that the creation of a strategy was completed almost a year ago and should, of course, point out that we do not have this strategy since 2016, and also in 2011-2016. Unfortunately, it has never really lived. And now that mental health.../incomprehensible/... is even more drastically endangered, the minimum responsibility of the Minister of Health and the Government of the Republic of Croatia is to put the national strategy for the protection of mental health under emergency procedures. Then, in the part of the programme of detention of workers in activities of reduced economic activity, all the support has been very precise since the beginning of the pandemic, but I will repeat once again and should speak publicly that the independent artists in this entire 19-month period received support for letters and numbers, 4 months, at the beginning of the pandemic itself 3 and now in January of this year 1, which was the result of a petition of artists from the Ministry of Culture. It is clear from the report that culture has and has restrictions on action, but independent artists and culturalists who have indeed been brought to the very edge of existence still have no support. Why can all workers be helped, why, and artists and culturers not? Are independent artists and culturers perhaps second-class citizens in this country? We ask both of you ministers, and of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, to urgently correct these injustices and to finally engage in the support of both independent artists and all of the cultures affected by the effects of the Covida-19 epidemic. And finally, vaccination. So despite the failure of the Staff, despite the trust spent, we need to be vaccinated and we should not protest the authenticity of the headquarters's leading people by refusing vaccination. This will only put our health and health at risk for our loved ones and all other citizens. I've been vaccinated with two doses, I'll be vaccinated with a third if that's necessary and I think that vaccination is of course, that science says the only defense we can have against the virus. And that's why I'm repeating what I said three months ago, calling headquarters to step down. To come new people [[Intruder: Thank you.]] fresh people, convincing people who will be more effective [[Thank you very much.]] And more convincing. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63468	But stay, stay, stay, stay Mrs. Dalia Oreshkovic has her first line. [[I'm sorry.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63469	Thank you, Chairman. Here's my dear colleague, I agree with you that the first and minimum step we should take is to withdraw the resolute minister and a complete unworthy headquarters that has long since spent public trust. However, I don't think a step further should be stopped at this point and asked to withdraw a complete HDZ. What you were talking about in your debate points to another topic that we haven't paid enough attention to today, which is that the way of calculating and fighting the Covid-19 virus directed by this government has led to what this government is doing very well, which is to create inequalities among citizens because neither in support measures have all groups been treated equally. Some have passed quite unprivileged, and they have borne on their backs a burden disproportionate to some of the benefits received by other groups. Do you see the responsibility of this government in having inconsistencies and unprincipled and different criteria and arches according to different social groups. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63470	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63471	Yeah, well, like I said, I think there were unequal criteria to support and help the workers and citizens of this country. I made that clear in my replica, and now. I primarily think of culturalists and artists who are completely unjustly neglected in this, in these measures. The Ministry of Culture claimed that they had given some competitions where people can appear, but these competitions cannot be affected by all those in need and it is indeed the fact that from 19 months they have received independent art, artists only 4 support. I believe that the Minister of Culture, as well as the entire Government of the Republic of Croatia, is responsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63472	Mr. Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63473	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Raukar, I'm interested in agreeing with you certainly that the headquarters should withdraw, this number to which the minister yesterday, here I'm glad he apologized today that maybe he shouldn't have said so, I accept that, at the beginning of the work of Minister Beros, we were really surprised by his communication honestly and openly. Tell me for a year what happened at that session when it was before closing because 27.11. when that lockdown went we had a number that this gentleman was surprised by yesterday. Then. What happened is that Mr. Berosch has changed so much and he's just looking The particular interest of the prime minister and HDZ. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63474	Mrs. Raukar, that question is not addressed to you, but if you know how to answer it, answer it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63475	I'd say, yes, thank you for the matter of colleague Matula. It's really about a downgraded trust in this headquarters. We all testified that at the beginning of the pandemic, complete Croatia looked at Minister Berosa, Dr. Markotic, Mr. Kapak, we believed them all together, and it was not a question of party, political belongings, but we had the impression and feeling and security that the profession was leading us. And then, then the national headquarters took over politics, and then the situations started to happen that some events were allowed, so we had a situation where Dr. Markotic performed on that open air show that unfortunately was at one point that never should have happened. So trust has been broken, and unfortunately it's irrevocable. And I really think that's the only one [[Thank you very much.]] what I can do for the benefit of this nation's health to withdraw. [[Thank you, thank you, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63476	Mrs. Puljak, please. Mrs. Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63477	Here's my colleague, I just wanted to warn you about another group that is actually experiencing a major downturn due to this crisis. It is a group of occasional carriers, therefore entrepreneurs are involved in occasional transport. It is therefore that those buses that drive organizedly do not even know sports clubs, schools etc., so during this crisis they simply experienced a decline in traffic of 85, 90% and had some support from the state for some time, but now it is announced that these aids are being shut down because, as here is the line traffic that has continued, however, this occasional transport is simply still having a major drop in traffic. I just wanted to warn you that there are other groups and entrepreneurs who do not have the support of the state.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63478	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63479	Of course, I thank you colleagues, Puljak, you are absolutely right and probably not even the occasional carriers are the only ones who exist yet because it is simply one domino effect that is created to cause one another. The only thing left for us is vaccination, and because of vaccination, we reach a high percentage of the cleavage, then these problems will begin, because we will still be able to return to someone more normal. And so I repeat, vaccination is important, the headquarters has lost trust, it should withdraw, we should come up with new people in whom we would trust as we had in you 19 months ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63480	And at the end of the day, Mrs. Barbara Antoliæ Vupra.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63481	Honorable Vice President, you spoke of culture, so the culture you leave twice returns, has been in the airless space for a long time, they've been left without compensation. I'm interested in what you started to say, I'm guessing you couldn't say everything, but I'm curious to know what you're thinking about now about cultural culture and culture workers doing to improve their status and thereby contribute to an indirectly better picture of the state of the nation?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63482	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63483	So we all witnessed in the first lockdown, and later on how important culture was and how many cultural programs were viewed and followed and somehow helped people survive these extremely difficult periods. Of course, I don't think that support is the only thing that culture and artists need, but it's certainly what they need. It is not social assistance, it is simply the help they deserve, like all employees and workers in Croatia, to simply survive, and not just to survive, but to survive this culture that helps us and that keeps us in some relatively helping us survive all of this together that sustains us and helps us to remain human.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63484	Thank you. No more replicas, thank you very much Ursha Raukar Gamulin. [[Intruder Raukar Gamulin: Thank you.]] And now it's Mr. Niksha Vukas' turn, he's gone, he's losing his right. And Mr. Zeljko Pavić is here and he doesn't lose his right. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63485	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister with Associates, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I'm one of the ones who didn't vaccinate in the assembly because I listened to what the headquarters said and I thought that at the time it was more necessary to get the vaccine. I was waiting for my doctor's call to vaccinate, but in this expectation I got a crown and I didn't get through so well. That's why I recommend that anyone who hasn't been vaccinated be vaccinated as soon as possible. As for the Minister's report, I know you didn't write it, but those who wrote it probably wrote it last time, obviously didn't listen to our discussions here in the assembly and didn't bother to change what we asked for last time. And we asked for every decision and for every measure to see what the results were, and there is no report in this report. We have the excellent list of decisions you've been making, we don't know why you've made new decisions because the results you've achieved have not been written, and in the end we've actually received a report that hasn't given us the data we expected, unfortunately that's how it is. Again, the report is about writing itself in detail, but what we asked for last time we didn't get unfortunately again. What I would like to point out is that there was a mention of the costs associated with the purchase of vaccines for the necessary material regarding the treatment of covid, the prevention of covids, let's just say in those costs we didn't see the real costs that actually took place over 60 million euros in costs for air transport and we had problems with the committees, but we didn't get the right answer. We just got the answer that it was like that and that's actually the end. What bothers me personally about the doctor and their procedures is that there is actually no single doctor’s position in the infirmary when the sufferers need to go to the hospital. Unfortunately, here's one of my friends died, he came to the hospital late, he communicated with the doctor, the doctor didn't send him to the hospital in time, when he came to the hospital he had inflammation of both his lung and unfortunately died in a few days, it was too late. And that's what's extremely important is that this attitude is somehow evened out and that I know what's waiting for us if something happens. The same is a big problem with public information, the problem with education is what we talked about, what counterpart Maric mentioned, there should be more such activities and more actions on this issue. On the other hand, the misrepresentation of results by the ruling majority also bothers me. They say they were great measures, so we had a good tourist season. As good as this season is, we'll see this, but the data we have has shown that in the right two quarters more money has been sent to our Gustrabiters than has been earned since the tourist season. So people working abroad sent billions and 600,000 euros to their families, on the other hand, people working from Croatia for others received a billion and 67m euros. And that's why the number of fiscalized accounts is growing, which is why consumption is growing, not just because of tourism, and we have to consider that, if we're not considering it, then we're not showing real results. On the other hand, when we talked about the results of our measures in Croatia at one time in the summer, we had a report that there were about 20, 30 people with us, while the Austrian media are publishing information that Croatia came back in a week from 800 people with a crown, so the differences are big. I'm not saying someone was setting something up, but the fact is that the data doesn't match. It's easy to check. Thank you. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63486	- Mrs. Crescent. Dalia Oreshkovic is the first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63487	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleague, thank you for reminding the Prime Minister here that the opposition here in HS has launched a single interpretation of how this government is handled with covid, I am pleased that you have drawn attention to the fact that this authority has not heard any of the proposals, none of the criticisms, none of the comments that all of us MPs have pointed out through committees, which through our other political work. I am interested in your opinion on this report on the effects of the measures implemented in the reporting period, whether it is sufficient, given that it comes down to certain segments, for example, the impact in tourism, the impact in the education system. What is missing is the impact assessment on the long-term health of our insurance companies, so there is no plan, there is no strategy, what about those secondary and tertiary diseases that are going to arise and how will our health system which is in collapse solve them and how will we address the financial burden arising from the costs generated by the government?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63488	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63489	Those who remember at least part of my debate that we had last time, I told the minister here to resent having a crisis headquarters without a crisis manager who could determine what the priority was and what had to be done and that's a big grudge. It's also a big problem that they've been implementing the measures, but we don't have the results of these measures anywhere. Now we don't know what measures were more effective, those of last year or those of this year, and we don't know because we don't know what we did last year, what we were doing this year, and what we did this year, so we don't have comparable data, and that's a big problem, that we had, that we had a crisis manager who understands it, who's leading it and who kind of knows how to analyze it would be much better.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63490	Mr. Sinisha's replica of Heidash Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63491	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague, in your performance you were very much like that not to say "humble", so it was a complete negativity all this government tried to manage you just found some negative things. So, do you see in this crisis management at all, except, of course, by calling for tourism, and tourism in Croatia alone is fortunately our success because of the differential rent or the positional rent, but again, we were able to notice that the government has not actually intervened and has not prepared... A neoliberal so pure right economic government, so she let the market solve everything just, again she hasn't prepared people to say okay, probably someone's coming, get ready with a little labor force, with... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] importing labour or so. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, I'm following you a little bit, I can see that it was all so dark on your part, do you see anything bright in that headquarters and in that crisis management? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63492	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63493	I can't say it was all bad. Of course, if we had people who survived, people who were on time taken care of, these were some of these positive shifts. However, what I expected from headquarters, I said earlier, I expected to have a crisis manager at headquarters who would know in time to warn what should be done in which case. It wasn't there, it wasn't there. What we mentioned last time, and we said to the Minister well-meaningly not with the intention of insulting him, not with the aim of demeaning what they did but with the goal of doing it better next time, we said give those people inside who know and who can, not only have epidemiologists in the headquarters to solve the crisis because this crisis was not only reflected on the sick but was reflected on tourism and on the economy and on education. You want to talk about protest... In the light? [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63494	No, you can't now. - Mrs. Crescent. Mirela Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63495	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President HS. Dear counterpart Pavić, in your presentation you very clearly presented the consequences of this terrible pandemic that included not only Croatia but the EU, but also the whole world. You were talking about the tragic fates of your acquaintances and friends, we can all talk about ourselves in this context. We have heard too many times from Minister Beros calling or calling, it would be more credible to say, citizens of insufficient insecurities in the Republic of Croatia, which today is the result that Croatia is only ahead of Bulgaria and Romania in terms of the fragmentation of Croatian citizens. I would at least like to hear from you because I haven't heard from you here, do you think that the National Civil Protection Centre, Minister Beroš and the Croatian government, is responsible for such a fiasco in the fission of Croatian citizens given their unbelief in promoting the need for vaccination?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63496	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63497	The first and the big problem was that people weren't informed, so people didn't have the information that, how, when. Another problem, when there was an attack on the people of the vaccine, there was no vaccine. After that we applied to the e-piss, so the system went down and the data was gone. One part of the data is missing. [[Clip intrusion: They're not missing]] I'll tell you they're gone. [[Intruder: Please]] [[Clip intrusion: They're not missing]] Great, they're not. ... [[Clip intrusion: They're not missing]] They also claimed they weren't missing, I'm telling you that they're missing, one piece is missing. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63498	Please go further with the debate, go further with the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63499	So people, people thought they were reported and waited for vaccination, but they didn't turn up, they didn't call them for vaccination at all. I can give you a list of those people who did it, so one part of the data is gone. Furthermore, there was a major problem because people did not know with any vaccine to be vaccinated, were not referred and there were problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63500	We've got an injury... Wait a minute, wait a minute, a breach of the Rules of Procedure, here you go. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63501	He's been injured. 238 'cause you're a repeat colleague and you're saying things that are completely untrue. Make an argument about it, state who's gone, stop it, please stop with those things, and by saying you're causing a riot among all these people. Don't do that. Let's create something together, suggest something, improve something, don't do this. You're telling lies and it's really hard to listen.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63502	Thank you very much. It's a natural thing, I'm sorry. The natural thing that I have to give you a warning... Don't say I agree because it's the law, I've already told you this once, and breaking the law isn't nice because you've replicated it, and this Rules of Procedure doesn't consider the questions of the truth. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It's not a book of philosophy or faith, which would have books of theology, it's a Rules of Procedure. There everyone answers for the words he said, and then the appointed minister will have the right to respond to those words, to those attitudes, but sooner we will end up with replicas. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Credentials. Ahmetovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63503	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of HS, the Rules of Procedure, Art. 238. I don't know who you should have sent a warning to, or whether you hurt the Rules of Procedure when you didn't warn the Minister that he's a guest here in the Assembly, that he has a 5-minute exposure instrument in which he can speak, not throw out of the bench a representative who has the right to speak his mind no matter what the minister says. Please restrain the minister, let him stop acting as prime minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63504	Thank you very much. Thank you. [[Intruder: Respect the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia!]] Thank you very much. ... I, you have a warning because you haven't read the Rules of Procedure. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I can't give a warning to the Minister, I can only give counsel. ... And I warned him, and I warned him. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And I warned the minister not to throw it away, and the minister will have opportunities, he'll say what you think, but don't, I have to give you a warning because you knew it, too, but you had a need to say. I didn't give.../incomprehensible/... Mr. Pavić didn't get any injuries to the Rules of Procedure, which, I don't know, will he get now, Mr. Highash Doncic, please. ... You'll get it now. ... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] [[- Intruder: Dear.]] What? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Dalia? Excuse me. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63505	... Thank you, Chairman. [[Specially enabled.]] So I'm calling for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Art. 238, and first of all, I invite you to interpret this provision correctly because you have not interpreted it properly. In fact, we MPs have the right to rebel when we are earned from the ruling camp that we were not constructive. If we were constructive anywhere, we were constructive on how to deal with this crisis because we felt it was our common interest and shared obligation and shared responsibility Especially rude to ask us to create something together, [[/Intruder: Mrs. Ma'am. Oreshkovic!]] Excuse me! [[/Intruder: Mrs. Oreshkovic!]] It's not been a while.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63506	Yeah, no! I'm not allowing it. I'm giving you a warning. I'm giving you a warning because you used this provision of the Rules of Procedure. I give you a warning, I don't allow any further speech, I had to speak right away, I had to interrupt you right away, you know it three times better than I do. And now it is, and now it is, and now, you have a reminder and Mr. Sinisha [[Intruder: Yes, but you did not follow my proposal to interpret the provision...]] Comedash Doncic has... you have, you know you can, [[Intruder:... Rules of Procedure in a different way.]] You can appeal to the board... [[Thank you. Thank you very much.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63507	Mr. Vice-President of the Parliament, so you could apply the article directly here. 244th to say that you can remove any person who is making a riot in the assembly. So not a representative, and the minister was throwing it away. That's it, thank you. I can get a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63508	I'm sorry, yes, you get a warning because it's not, because, because if that were the case, if I were to give it to anyone else here in Parliament, you'd end up turning off the light and going home because you'd be alone. ... Where were we? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You were supposed to answer now, weren't you? Or where were we? ... /incomprehensible... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Sandra Bencic. Don't, please,.../incomprehensible/... see what time it is, we have another point, so come on, we're not children. Here you go, Mr. Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63509	I thank the chairman. Yeah, I know this isn't easy, we're still on the first wheel, we're gonna be for a while. Here, buddy, my question goes this way. So we're all over this call, if in one thing we were all constructive together and we were making proposals, regardless of what, maybe the different attitudes we have on some issues, it was just about how to manage the pandemic. We specifically at the Green-Left Block Club were making real proposals, from how to better manage and announce measures when and under what conditions they are being introduced, we supported vaccination, and we made it clear that people who have no more confidence in the public can't run the vaccination campaign and everything we've been saying turned out to be true. My question now is whether at the end of HDZ and the Headquarters are guilty or responsible only for it What do we have, less than 50% of the cleavage? [[Thank you. Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63510	Please respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63511	Yeah. It's hard for me to answer that correctly, you know what my opinion is, but I'm not going to say it. I said, there wasn't enough information, there wasn't enough training, there wasn't enough information for our citizens, which, as well as why and there are basic problems. And what the minister called behind my back to lie, I call upon Mr. Minister to all those media who wrote that the data was gone, to call them liars. I unfortunately collected data from the media. You know why? ... Because they weren't in the report! ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And we were looking for the report, we didn't get it, so I collected it from the media, and the media said that the data was missing. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And if I said something wrong, I said it because I read it in the media, and no one in the media has denied it, so if anything's wrong, it's not my fault, Mr. Minister. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63512	Here's your answer. ... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63513	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In your discussion, you mentioned this discrimination in the number of cases reported in the Republic of Croatia and on the return of tourists to their countries of origin, you referred to Austria in your debate. I mean, it's one of those things that's been obvious all along that it's not possible that the numbers are so low, and then when people come back, I don't think it's a real state display. It certainly violated the confidence of the citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia in what the Staff is doing and there, however frustrated some members or members of the Staff may be, that is. I'm interested in your opinion on whether you think it's an accident or that, therefore, there's some other motive for this discrimination in numbers, perhaps intentional? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63514	Thank you. Thank you very much. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63515	Well, I said in my statement in my debate that I believe that, yes, and I believe that there was some bad intentions. However, the figures show that discrimination is high. So if we have 20 people, 30 infected at that time, and at the same time in Austria in a week from Croatia 800 people infected, then there's something wrong with that. Unless they were all together and they infected each other, which I don't believe. Besides, they were at sea, they were in the fresh air, and it's not possible that they all got it right on the same beach. But I have no right to doubt the reports that the Staff gave, nor would they want to point out in any case, nor would they want our citizens to get it wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63516	Thank you very much. If we went back to normal, it was the last replica. ... Which one? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Which one? No, I, I read upstairs. ... No, I said the last line. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And it didn't say there. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And it turns out, well, if it turns out, then okay, we'll catch her again and put her up and we'll give you our word. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63517	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, you spoke about tourism, you spoke about the inconsistency of data, and indeed there was such information that foreign media said that 800 infected from Croatia had returned to Austria. On the other hand, our media, or our rulings, said that the share of tourists in the number of infected is actually small. Now there's either the question of testing, whether they were tested with a quick antigen test, PCR, so it's the same pain, not just in the report, but in the real world. So what data is taken into account, is the thing in, perhaps by deliberate twisting of truth by foreign media, it's hard to say. However, I have here, in the report, p. 28, I don't know if anyone's seen this in more detail, it's shown how much, as far as Covid's border confirmation has been over, tested and vaccinated, and it's interesting that in these 1 038 000 Covid tests were actually the most vaccinated, so our tourists they were really coming in vaccinated. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Give me back the 10 seconds you took from me. So... So, it's not that the rulings are responsible for what was a good tourist season, something was probably also the contribution of tourists who were aware and were vaccinated. [[Intruder: No, I didn't take it, it started right, but finish the sentence.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63518	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63519	I agree with most of your replica. What I'd like to say is that the Chief of Staff has not taken the measures he's taken, it wouldn't be forced for tourists to come to us vaccinated, so, Minister, that's where we have to give our confession to the Staff, as far as that goes. However, all the other things that were happening in the Adriatic, as measures were being carried out, were not exactly in line with what was prescribed. On the other hand, for our people, here, I happened to be at sea when there was a society from my neighborhood, domestic people went to the wedding, the other day they came back, they said, they were in control. So for our people who had the wedding, the control came, took a few people, looked at the tests and then left that wedding. Was that done with tourists? Did it happen on Zrće, whether it happened in clubs, I really don't know. I don't have that information.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63520	Thank you. Thank you very much. Now we're finally going to the final this... I beg your pardon? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] At the finals. It's really Mrs. Right now. Andreja Maric, who didn't turn out to be here, will be able to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63521	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Parliament, dear ministers, secretary of state, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Here, a few final thoughts on behalf of our club. So, I said in the beginning, in the report are the tax-based activities carried out in the field of prevention, preparedness, response, recovery, as well as strategic objectives. That's not at all controversial. Therefore, there was also the conduct of testing, surveillance, monitoring of infected persons, contacts, monitoring of hospital facilities for the treatment of Covid, carrying out vaccinations. But the vaccination campaign didn't get a satisfactory effect, and we have to admit that. A few more things that got in our eyes a little bit in the report. So different methods of describing the dead, the pattern is across different countries, that the patient died of Covid, with Covid, should be uniformed and we all agreed on that on our parent board. Also, in the number of positives, not those who are positive for the rapid antigen test but the official, gold standard, means PCR. So again, some kind of inconsistencies. The issue of mental health is a subject that requires serious action, education and help for people. Concerning, of course, is the trend of increasing violence against family and children, we heard, we can also read that in 2020 39.2% more crimes, and in the first 7 months of this year as much as 26.1% of higher crimes from the domain of violence against children and families compared to the same period of 2020. Then, the question of public procurement, here, the minister argues that this is all transparent for the purchase of tests, drugs, medical protective equipment we saw that for surgical masks, surgical gloves and rapid tests a total of 23.7 million kunas were spent in the reporting period, again I ask the question costbenefit analysis, or a detailed report, and we really ask that it be prepared for the next time. And the report states that the Republic of Croatia ordered by 2023. 18.9 million doses of vaccine, still pending confirmation of the EMA administration of the third dose of vaccine, will need to be recommunicated very clearly with the public who and why the third dose should be vaccinated. Whether this number of doses is too high at this time, especially since by 1.9 million doses were delivered by this year, and in the reporting period 2.65 million doses mean we are up to 18.9 million. It's important to take care of the deadlines, I asked the board to make sure that, about 300,000 doses we donated humanely to other countries. We don't know, we didn't at least get a specification of who, how much and when we asked for a report and I hope we get it at the next board meeting. And finally a few more thoughts, so update the site of HJZJ most common questions and answers, is not updated since the 2nd month 2021, and would certainly benefit our citizens, organize additional educations, round tables, counselling centres not only in Zagreb for commending but also in other counties. Get us a vaccination campaign plan for the next period. You can't get out that the pandemic surprised you, it was supposed to be ready early last fall. Declare yourself on who is the campaign bearer, so whether the ministry, headquarters, government or the Institute of Public Health or whoever, step up the campaign. Members of the Scientific Council should communicate their conclusions to the public after their meetings. Unconsistent communication is counterproductive, of course, that every scientist has the right to his opinion, but we have not yet heard any communication from the scientific advice that everyone stands behind those messages they send to the public. The report states that we have a sufficient number of health care workers' teams trained to work with covid patients, although as I have already said not all of them are infectologists, pulmologists, engineers, endocrinologists and cardiologists and psychiatrists, etc. All these people have passed additional educations in those first two wave pandemics even in their own arrangement many have contracted and all deserve covid supplements, and they haven't won even though the department door doesn't say covid. And in conclusion, communicate clearly to the public all of this we have pointed out to you, I believe that there will be some kind of effect and that at least a little more people will be vaccinated to finally stop this pandemic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63522	Thank you, too. Ms. Ivana Kekin will represent the views of the Green-Left bloc's Green-Left Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63523	They tell us that vaccines can be infected and transmitted by a disease that makes no sense. Falsely, it is true that vaccines can be infected and that they can carry disease but other than what happens to a significantly smaller extent, the vaccine significantly protects against severe disease and death from covids, radically reduces hospitalisation rates and radically reduces mortality rates. So, high fissure turns covid into a little more severe virosis. We're told that more people died because of measures than by covid. Falsely, people died because they were filled with covid patients, and the medical staff couldn’t even treat patients with other diseases. So people who died because they couldn't get treatment, diagnostics and their doctor couldn't because we had measures, but because the health system couldn't bear the burden that produced high levels of newly ill covids. We're told that the vaccine against covid causes infertility. Inaccurately, no relevant medical study has found any association of vaccines and infertility in any relevant study. So you won't be infertile if you vaccinate, but you could if for the sake of low fissure and new mutations we stay under measures too long, so you won't have a chance to meet a man or woman of your life. They tell us the vaccine is dangerous. Inaccurately, a huge study conducted on 11 million people recently published in JAMA, which is the best medical journal in the world, has shown that there are no serious side effects after vaccination of mRNA. The vast majority of decisions you make every day have a better statistical chance of killing you, specifically every entry into the car, every plane ride, a smoked cigarette and a glass of wine at night, birth control pills and love for the dry-meat products, which the extra pounds have a better chance of killing you than the vaccine, and especially the covid. A representative from this assembly tells us that I will quote her once again "that every fourth person vaccinated in Croatia has died", incorrectly, that would mean that 450,000 people died in Croatia only among the vaccines. That representative does not understand that not every fourth person vaccinated died but that each fourth person was vaccinated. I can't judge whether the distinguished representative deliberately manipulates or shows a deep misunderstanding of basic statistics because what she said actually means that, for example, if we say that 90% of the people in Croatia in traffic were bound by a safety belt that 90% of those who bond will die or it's important to understand that as the population is growing, so does the percentage of people vaccinated among the dead, even though the total number of deaths. In a hypothetical situation where 100% of the population is split in a country and in a year one person dies of covid, it is true to say that among the dead, 100% were vaccinated, but it is not true to say that all the vaccinated died. It's a logical mistake made by an esteemed representative by accident or purposefully being honest, I don't know what's worse. They tell us the vaccine causes magnetic properties. Incorrectly, says counterpart Bencic, that's how I wouldn't lose my keys every day. I understand, I really understand why people don't believe the recommendations of headquarters and government, our experience teaches us that it's dangerous to trust HDZ and HDZ, yesterday's verdict just confirmed what you know that HDZ doesn't care about public interest, that it lies and steals and works against public interest, and I understand why they find it very hard to believe. But don't trust them, trust scientists and scientists, trust the world's health consensus, trust the world's most important health institutions, trust WHO, trust doctors and doctors among whom more than 90% of them have been vaccinated in Croatia. I'm speaking to you from this place as a politician, but first of all, as a doctor and as a scientist. Vaccinate. Not because they tell you so, but despite what they say.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63524	Thank you very much. - Mrs. Crescent. Anka Mrak-Taritash will now represent the positions of the Centre and GLAS Club. Also, finally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63525	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of HS, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. After the final presentation of two doctors, I am, with forgiveness, an architect. But I've spoken a lot of things on the subject of the crown and the subject of Covid, and I think this report deserved to look back at some things. I'm over the crown, I'm vaccinated and I'm going to be vaccinated and I'm going to be vaccinated for the third time if I have to and for as many times as the sciences and the doctors say that I need to be vaccinated, and I believe in doctors, and I didn't even double, when I said which vaccine you're going to be vaccinated with, I said so with a vaccine that's going to be because I've been vaccinated so far, I never asked which vaccine I'm going to be vaccinated with. For the first time, when the debate began on different vaccines, I looked at who the manufacturers were for years, so I saw, let's say, one drug was the manufacturer of Pfizer until I started to discuss it. The responsibility of each of us is to decide whether to vaccinate or not. I have and I call, my people, to be vaccinated, but I absolutely accept the decision of someone who has decided not to vaccinate. In doing so, let's remember the very beginning of the pandemic and the Staff, that the Staff then told us that we had to stand on one foot, three hours a day, we all trusted the Staff so that they would stand neatly for 3 hours a day when we had that lockdown. Faith at headquarters stopped the moment the decisions started and you remember which one was the first. The first was related to the procession in general Easter on the island of Brac. ... That, Hvar, is my apologies, Hvar. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] That was the first decision of headquarters when we said, wait a minute, what is this Staff? This headquarters makes some decisions according to some of the interests, and then we started to question the headquarters's decisions. I really don't trust the Staff, I don't trust this government either, but I trust doctors, I trust science, and I trust responsibility to be vaccinated. And every time my message will be, my people, trust your doctors and vaccinate. For the simple reason that I have now looked at the data, the data that is today is that Croatia is 51.64% of the adult population. This report points to three things. First thing, we've got enough vaccines. The other thing is, if there's no order, so you decide to vaccinate now, you can leave tomorrow and vaccinate. The third thing is that people who have decided to vaccinate mainly have been vaccinated, those who have decided not to vaccinate, will find it difficult to decide to vaccinate and the question is what to do and what to do. That's where we opened the subject of education. So we opened it up to be educated at all, to talk about it. We talked about the subject of promiscation, so we talked about a series of topics to do and what to change. I, with great envy, really with great envy, watched before one, let's say a month, Norway, the split that Norway has, too, that lives normally. So she achieved a split that made us a science fiction of about 76 or 77%, everyone went out into the streets without a mask and celebrated the day they lived normally. So at this rate, we can't get to the 60 percent split, let's not lie. That's the fact, we have to be prepared for that. The only question is that we communicate clearly then, which means 55% cleavage means that, of 60%, it means that. Or we'll live under masks. Well, I don't want some people I met under masks, I'll never, ever, I don't know, forgive them, I'll never, ever, ever know when we take off our masks who it's about. So, we're living out of our minds, but what do we have to do now, what can we do? We can charge ourselves, we can clearly tell who's guilty of what. But what do you do next? Give me the answer we didn't get. We will have a report in this House again for the next month, but it would be good to ask ourselves together and see if we're ready at all to have a 60% split, which is minimum for anything further.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63526	Thank you. Thank you very much. - Mrs. Crescent. Marija Selak Rasdic will represent the final views of the Club of Representatives of the Mosta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63527	Since my colleague Kekin is so obsessed with me that all the debate she had on this important report has come down on me, instead of the metrics, I owe the attention to the above. So, the thing is very banal. I said almost every fourth person in Croatia, who was vaccinated, died of Covid. Of course, the above implies that it is about people who were previously infected with Covid because otherwise it would mean that I claimed or thought that in Croatia 400 thousand people died already from Covid, so that I came and we claim to be walking on corpses. You cannot convince anyone in Croatia of such a ridiculous claim, and even when you asked me for an explanation, I gave you a very clear explanation of the statistics in this report, and I do not know why you continue to insist on these things instead of dealing with the metrics. You haven't even talked about the report in the final debate, and I can only think that you haven't even read it. You were talking about vaccination, and we don't have here a debate on vaccination we here have a debate on one document that's a key document for HS. But a few things are important to point out, you said that the vaccine radically reduces mortality, radically, is your arbitrary qualification. It would be much more important if you had joined me in warning Croatian citizens who have been vaccinated that they too must be careful because this report shows that unlike the previous reporting period, even more than 20% of our citizens who have been vaccinated with one or two doses and who are infected with covid have eventually died from covid, so caution is needed. It would be much more useful if you were a message that was truly transmitted than you were saying that the vaccine is radically protective because the vaccine is your religion and makes it impossible for you to make a normal scientific argument. If we're going to radically I'm going to say what's radical, radically in politics is your threatening hand that you're blowing up every time thinking it's an invitation to democracy, and it's actually an invitation to a dictatorship that you've already tried to establish, fortunately failed in the city of Zagreb. And yes, people are wondering who to trust, so people should trust to begin with the legitimately elected parliamentary representatives of those who have given confidence that they are represented here. My colleague Kekin, unfortunately you are not among them, you have received an insufficient number of votes to represent anyone here. You may be successful in your number of votes on a local committee, even your husband received more votes than you, but unfortunately you did not allow him to appear in this assembly. So you're stuck here with a political directive, and you don't want people to, so I don't even know who you're really talking to. As far as this report is concerned, which should have been the subject of this debate and which I have dealt with exclusively, and even when I have warned of this information that even those who have been vaccinated are not entirely sure because of our citizens we have to communicate clearly to the Croatian public, it is necessary to highlight the final few improvements that are possible. Before they do, I would like to thank the Minister for staying here and listening to the whole debate, which is not often the case in HS, and I would also like to think that he was more open to dialogue and to the issues raised here, but perhaps if we have more frequent reports together we get to that level. It would also be useful to list the side effects due to all the concerns that exist in a large part of our citizens that we can and can discuss it, it would be useful to look more closely at those who suffer from post-covid syndrome because it is only mentioned here that there are them, and we do not know exactly what is happening with them and how they are treated. It would be useful to include the patients in all statistical reports because it is a significant number of our citizens, and it is unclear what their immunity is compared to those who have been vaccinated and those who have not been vaccinated. I will finally repeat what I said and at the beginning, first of all, we need to return to public procurement precisely because of corruption and disabling it. This report should have been the subject of our debate, I can only conclude with regret that MPs without democratic legitimacy are not able or are doing this job even though the directive put them in a place where they should not sit.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63528	Thank you very much. I have to admit, I've been counting for seconds this time. Mr. Domagoj Hajdukovic will speak at the conclusion in front of the Social Democrats Club, I'm sorry, you know, but I have to concentrate now.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63529	Yeah, yeah. Thank you. My colleagues and colleagues, commanders, ministers, secretary of state. So, I've already said it in my debate and I'm going to repeat it again, I'm not a doctor, I'm not a medic and I'm not going to speak with that aspect, I'm going to talk with a political aspect, I'm going to speak with a credible aspect, I'm going to speak from a point of view of what we're supposed to do as responsible citizens and politicians, and then as medics, I don't know builders, engineers, etc., and that's actually to approach the fight against this monster jointly coordinated, credible and determined. And let me remind you what the Prime Minister said in the middle of last year in Split, we won the crown. Did we beat her by her colleagues and colleagues or beat her for her daily political interests? We did, and we beat her because of the elections, the parliamentary elections that were coming, so we beat the crown. Perhaps if the election were more often won the crown, but the crown was not yet defeated by colleagues and colleagues, and that's why we're here and that's why we're even discussing this. And the point is not what the side effects of the vaccine are on me, the point is that the most responsible people in this country have been communicating. And I'll remember how they were communicating, dr. Markotic speaks of a ban on gathering, and then appears at a mass gathering or vaccinates his mother over the line. So which of you coworkers and colleagues wouldn't have vaccinated their old mother over the line if he could? But no, and why would there be others in this country or not? Apparently there are no equals and there are equal, there are those who are in the headquarters, there are those who are not, there are those who are HDZ, there are those who are not. Well, you see those who are more equal, those who are at headquarters, those who are in HDZ, they have given you their old Mayan before us who are not. Of us who are ordinary citizens or of us who are, God forbid, and that is your worst curse in this country, being an opposition, not constructive because whatever we say is unstructured because we will not clap to the president of the party convicted of corruption, Master Andrej Plenkovic. Well done, Master. Well done, everyone else who has a syncope, and you don't have a syncope, not just about Dr. Evey Sanader, you've got a sync about a lot of other things. You have a syncope about this. And that's why, Minister, I can't agree with some of your grades. And I can't, with my best wishes, even though I don't doubt your goodwill, but I can't, with the best will, receive some of the things you say and the grades you say about this speaker. Because your party president, the convicted party, likes to say that Domagoj Hajdukovic likes to read, and Domagoj Hajdukovic likes to read and Domagoj Hajdukovic remembers some things. And forgive me, face three, it's characteristic of some other politicians, but I'm rhetorically using it because it's used by Andrej Plenkovic for this speaker. And I'm going to read you something that's, say, written 24 hours with other media, April 23, 2021, and I quote, 4 thousand people have disappeared from the Crepis. Dad's 69 years old and he didn't get his turn, they said he wasn't there. And you, Minister, tell our representative to lie when he says things like that. Well, Minister, I'd like to say a nicer word, but you lied or at least wanted to deceive the Croatian public. The project's blockage is fiasco. The campaign to protect others, think of others, vaccinate, is a fiasco. The fact that we managed to get out of the tourist season is not a win. It's something we've managed to do together, thank God because I don't know where we'd be if we weren't. Perhaps, Minister, if there were elections, we might have won the crown again. Well, then, if it's up to that, if that's how the pandemic is won, then let's call the election and beat the crown.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63530	Thank you very much, Mr. Hajdukovic, thank you very much for your comments, but... Allow me some narcissism,... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Yeah? [[Speakers speak Italian, not understood.]] Yet finally, here you go, Mr./incomprehensible/... Minister, Minister Beros.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63531	I thank you for your interest and thank you for all your replicas. Look, as a man, I can't sit in this honorable house and listen to lies. Maybe it's someone's permission, I can't listen to it. Sir, you read in the paper, but you didn't read the comment and the AZOP's conclusion that there was no data loss. Please, when you say something, look and I invite you to the same. Check it out. Because otherwise, these claims are not true. Is that what the Croatian people need? They won't hear from me, and they won't listen. I do this job with honor and responsibility, and I can't figure out how it's possible that someone in this holy house is lying and passing stories. There's something else I wanted to say. So, thank you all for your constructive contribution. Everyone should, like I said at the beginning be on the same side, listen to science, listen to the profession. After this debate today, I am deeply disappointed, especially by those who have no deeper knowledge of medicine, and they say anything. I ask you, each of you, there are experts in your party, epidemiologists, ask questions before you take up this pay phone and tell them to listen to you Croatian citizens. It's about their health. And we're so broadly democratic that we don't even condition vaccination. So if someone doesn't want to, we shouldn't, but we have to say it's the best way. The best thing to do right now is to forgive me for this heart attack because, among other things, I have learned that there are protesters outside my house, where my family is, which is a very unpleasant situation, therefore, because I want security for the health system. So my position isn't easy, I don't complain, but I really can't sit around and listen to things that aren't based. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63532	Thank you, too. You have replicas, Mr. Hajdukovic, first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63533	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Vice-President Yeah. [[Employment: Injury of the Rules of Procedure even?]] He's been injured. 238. [[/Intruder: Here you go.]] The minister deceives the public and insults the MPs. Minister, I didn't say you were personally guilty, no. But don't tell me to lie when I say what my colleague Markotic did Don't tell me I'm lying when I tell you what my colleague Capak did. [[/Intruder: No, no, no.]] [[/Intruder: No, no, no.]] Don't tell me to lie when I say what the council members did [[/Intruder: No, no, no.]] Incomprehensible/.../... [[Intruder: Of course it's...]] So wait. So who's lying about it? So who shows credibility? [[Wait. Wait a minute, just...]] Incomprehensible/.../... [[Intruder: Mr. Hajdukovic, Mr....]] Who shows consistency here, Minister? I'm not talking about you, but you're part of a system that needs to be directed. [[Intruder: Mr. Hajdukovic, you have.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63534	.../ You have a warning. One reminder.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63535	You personally, Prime Minister, do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63536	Here she is, third warning, you must remain silent now. A third warning, but you know it's the end of this debate now, so you did it on purpose. Don't do this. Besides, the breach of the Rules of Procedure is going on, you have to come to me, not to Mr. Any one, MP, minister, and what I know, but to me, you don't. ... You've spoken, no. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Excuse me, you have three warnings and you can't speak to this point anymore, but, well, we're done with the dot. That's what you knew and unfortunately... Mr. Minister, please. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Mr. Minister, Mr. Minister. He's right, Mr... He says I have to warn you a little harder. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm sorry, I know the situation you're in, but still, please, let's keep the peace here. Mr. Pavić. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, too? You're not gonna give up? Oh, no? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63537	Mr. Minister, if someone in this assembly is known as a moderate and measured, then I'm not really speaking without a clue and I'm not attacking you and I told you if I said something wrong I said because there's no such thing in your report and I have to collect these data from the media, that's what I said last time in the Minister's debate. Why do we have to read the results of the measures Why is that, too, right now? [[Intruder: Thank you, thank you, no more time]] He's inoculating himself. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63538	Mr. Pavić, the breach of the Rules of Procedure goes like this, forgive the violation of the Rules of Procedure, so I refer to the article and the fact that you have not and you speak to me and you say Mr. Minister has injured the Rules of Procedure which is, so, so, so he said, so it goes, not that you talk to Mr. Minister. It doesn't work that way, and you have to say the number, and the article number, and besides that, it was a replica. You have, you have a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63539	All right.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63540	It's a long night. - Mrs. Crescent. Dalia Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63541	Thank you. Dear Minister, I do not justify that there are protesters in front of your house and that your family is at risk. You're saying as a man you can't listen to lies here at HS, and I'm telling you that you as a minister can't tell lies. And you understand one thing, we don't trust you, we don't trust you to do your job with honor and responsibility, and please don't hide behind medicine, don't call in medicine, she didn't order Internet platforms from flower shops. That's why you're falling in trust.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63542	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63543	Your Honor, ma'am. MPs, I don't expect you to believe me, but check it out before you say anything. So, the contest where some flower shop came in has nothing to do with vaccination, it has to do with a whole other project. And thank God this case is on the evaluation of both the DORH and the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, because they will present a statement. But first of all, I'm asking you to be informed of what you're saying. So, the flower shops have nothing to do with the vaccination platform, no missing data. The AZOP made it clear that no data had disappeared, please check it, don't trust me, check it out.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63544	Thank you very much. - Mrs. Crescent. Oreshkovic has been injured by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63545	Thank you, Chairman. Art. In 238, so it really is an insult when one minister says to check it out for one parliamentary representative. So the whole problem is that you didn't give us the mechanisms to check anything, we don't trust you rightly.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63546	I give up.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63547	You say, you say commission, which commission, which commission, which you killed and took away their powers. You can't say it's none of your business. It's the same government. [[Intruder: nine, eight, seven...]] one and the same political party [[- Intruder:...six, five, four...]] [[Three, two, one, over.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63548	You have a second, second warning and please, please, please, if you don't believe check, please. Mr. Bojan Glavasevic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63549	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, one of the things I don't think were mentioned, and I think they're important, I think it's important that in every decision, in every situation, and in the global pandemic, it's especially normal to make mistakes. Staff, I think it's one of the reasons, mistrust in headquarters. The headquarters showed a large amount of not self-criticity and did not admit that mistakes were happening. Perception was, and it was, that this not self-critism, or refusal, that in some things they may have sinned in the defence function of the government’s political defence, and this violated their legitimacy. So, if some mistakes have happened and I think you should admit them, you don't have to tell anyone, depending on the size of the mistake, but you don't have to roll anyone's head off. speaking for it, but it's much more credible to say [[/Intruder: Time, thank you very much.]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] that we may be wrong sometimes, but be not self-critical. [[Intruder: Mr. Glavasevic, time, time, time, time, time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63550	We'll pretend, forgive me, forgive me, I have to give it to you, pretend that we don't see that, that Mr. Grmoya hid behind the pillar as the fifth representative of this, we'll pretend we don't see it, although Mr. Troscott is there, you can join him if you want, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63551	Are you pretending not to see me?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63552	Here you go. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63553	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Parliamentary Representative, I think for the last time in this honorable home I said it was a human mistake, which one of us didn't make a mistake? If you're apostrophe of any special errors, we can talk about them. I'm available for all mistakes, but justified by data, not authority, and then we can talk about everything. And I'd just say that I've never been behind the profession, so from the beginning, if you remember the first days of this threat, we've been saying that we're going to believe the profession and that it's the only profession that can lead us in this difficult fight. It may have been a mistake, but what's been said today so I'm at the disposal of everyone for analysis and consultation, but it's mostly taken out of context. Take a look at our results at the very least.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63554	Thank you very much. - Mrs. Crescent. It's a ben.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63555	Thank you. Dear Minister, this debate here lasts all day because of your results, because the fact is that your results are not good in the matter of cleavage in Croatia. I guess that's what you see, too, probably the government. The fact is that we spoke, and I will repeat that it is unlikely that if you continue to communicate with the vaccination or the headquarters that the rate of vaccination will increase, it will not be because of the mistakes that existed to you. You may feel that this is not good or that people have the wrong perception, but the fact is, the fact is that without a new headquarters and without new communicators we will not increase the rate of fissure and if that's what we're all looking for, then the goal is that you all stand together that sacrifice and put new people on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63556	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63557	You know what I'm gonna tell you? So the government's task was to provide sufficient amounts of free vaccine. That's what we did. The government's mission and my personal was to provide sufficient amounts of vaccine routes and vaccines. And we organized it. It was possible to come for vaccination without ordering and selecting vaccines. We heard today when Germany was only possible. Furthermore, when we saw that it was going badly, we organized patronage sisters who visited elderly patients by house. We've organized vaccinations in pharmacies. Every day we say that you need to be vaccinated because it saves lives. I agree, maybe it's getting tired of listening to people from us, but what I'm going to say is that this debate today in the Parliament didn't contribute and send a message to the citizens to split. So, it... Your responsibility because today you have encouraged Croatian citizens to be vaccinated with these acts. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Some are and I thank you from the heart for that. And what did others say? Listen to the tape. We don't come to debates like this. to our citizens and not.../incomprehensible/... we do not get the results we need. [[Thank you very much. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63558	Thank you very much. - Mrs. Crescent. Maria Selak Rasudiæ, let me tell you, you have two warnings. You have two warnings and Then there's another one, and then there's another point. ... [[Intruder:]] But it can be applied. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Well, that's fine. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We'll see what you say. ... Come on, go ahead. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] No, go ahead, we'll see what you say.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63559	Art. 238, therefore, the non-vaccination of representatives and Croatian citizens has contributed most to non-transparent communication. Non-warning of those who died of Covid anyway, who were vaccinated and infected with Covid and exactly what comes from your club, my colleague, when you unwittingly claim that the vaccine is radically protecting instead of giving the particulars that are in this Report who have no such foundation in reality. [[Thank you very much. If... /]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63560	- Mrs. Crescent. Selak, if you end up like that, it'll be just for this point, okay? ... There'll only be a warning for this point if you're done. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Thank you. ... Mr. Named Brumnic has a replica. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63561	Dear Minister, you through your predecessor who said, I never lie, I just sometimes don't tell the truth. Yeah, yeah. AZTN, the Data Protection Agency will respond that no data is misused But not that he's not lost. [[Intruder: No.]] I'll read you what the Ministry said. The ministry now argues that citizens can report for vaccination directly through the Cepis platform and added that deficiencies have been removed. That same article says that part of the data was deleted. But let's talk about whether the MPs are lying. Did I lie when I said the number of reduced operations? Did I lie when I said that a year ago you promised to establish a functional health care system or reform a health system that you haven't even started? Did I lie when I... [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63562	Coliar Brumnic, unfortunately time Unfortunately, the weather. [[Intruder: Clear.]] Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63563	Well, thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Look, you know very well what I said was false, which is that the data is lost. So I really own a memo.../incomprehensible/... Personal data protection agencies relating to the case and which claim that the data are not lost. So the citizens' data isn't lost. If that's not true, at the same time I'm willing to suffer the consequences. However, that was my point. And further, when it comes to operations that have not been done, which have been missed, I have requested this information during the debate and I can deliver it to you as soon as I get it, my services at this point suspect it's 100,000 operations, as far as you've said. But we'll check and you'll get the exact information. What? [[- O.R.?]] So my services don't know that. [[Intruder: This is official data.]] We'll check the exact number, and what you can be sure of is the next clue, as well as in all other cases that everyone backlogs of compensation. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63564	Mr. Minister, please, don't answer, whatever is said in the assembly, don't answer because that's not the protocol. You asked a question, you answered a question, unfortunately that's how it is. Otherwise it'd be a round table. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Named Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63565	The Honorable Vice President, the Honorable Minister, is injured. 238 where when you say the Agency sent you a memo, that no data were lost, how could someone prove that the data that was deleted were not lost? He couldn't even see them, and that's what this is about. [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] To you on migration from one system to another, Thus did the informers explain, [[/Intruder: Seven, six.]] the missing data, how [[/Intruder: Five, four.]] Someone after that can determine.../incomprehensible/...? [[Three, two.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63566	It was a replica, you have a warning. That's a second warning. Now I'm going to start counting because in order not to take away the word,... At first, I'll start counting, like in Houston. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] - Mrs. Crescent. Ivana Posavec The guilty, the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63567	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of HS, Your Honor. In the middle of Croatia's EU presidency, you became a minister in the Republic of Croatia. You have illuminated the face of all citizens and citizens because at that moment it was not known how to manage the crisis in Croatia, and should also be managed as the country's chairman and in other EU countries. And then you lit up the cheek and Prime Minister Plenkovic's cheek and what happened at that moment? The victory of HDZ came on those wings and you were rewarded, but at that moment, at the same time, the Staff stopped being consistent and credible because you were from the expert body of which the people believed you became a political body, and then you took over some other powers that gave us such a bad split today. And Minister, you can't run away from your responsibility that the people in you have lost trust just because you weren't consistent. Neither Mrs. Capak nor Mr. Capak, Mrs. Markotic. [[Intruder: Thank you very much, thank you very much, Mrs. Krivec.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63568	Mr. Minister, please respond, if you would like to respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63569	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63570	No, we're moving on. And in the end, you won't believe Mr. Bozo Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63571	Your Honor, I think today's debate has come down to vaccination, not vaccination, because it's only one segment in this entire fight against Covid and it's too superficial. What's the problem with this whole story is that you can't look at your struggle in a way that can use repressive measures and that in such a way citizens of anyone in this country will react non-chalantly and well and accept it all, and that there is no education on the other hand. The third thing that's very important, you can't make yourself and the government responsible if you have double standards because that's what people see. So I'm not talking about you as an expert. I wouldn't want anyone hiding behind the health system because I think we all in this room care about that health system. But when you give people freedom and you give clear standards and clear rules clear medical evidence that you are taking measures to [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Then you can just... [[Intruder: Mr. Petrov thank you.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63572	Thank you very much, thank you very much, time. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63573	Thank you very much, Mr. MP. So, education was, I asked for education in all health institutions, I asked for education to be repeated. We talk about it all the time. And when you talk about repressive measures please tell him, tell me what repressive measures these are. These carefully and carefully balanced measures? Compare yourself with European countries, with our neighborhood. I think we had much more liberal measures than at the beginning of the pandemic when we were learning a lot.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63574	Thank you very much. I'll give you both injuries to the Rules of Procedure, but Mr. Miletić must listen to me, Mr. Miletić, you've raised the bat. Incomprehensible... while, when, while the minister only said two first words. [[Don't worry...]] It means you're practically hurting Mr. Petrov's Rules of Procedure. Yeah, 'cause in the first two words he said only now I'm gonna start talking, but nothing you guys know what you're doing. [[Intruder: No.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63575	I know.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63576	Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63577	So the 234th article, we're ministers on opposite sides as political opponents, I appreciate you coming here at 9 a.m. and 15 minutes, waiting for us to come all day in the debate, it would be good for the other ministers to follow that example so that we can raise democratic processes in our society at the highest standard, thank you for that. We'll still fight sports dictionaries over everything we don't agree on. Please talk to me one more time... [[But it's true.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63578	Nice he's gone, no more time you have...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63579	to arrange for us to sit together and do the best we can for the Croatian people.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63580	...no more time, that's nice, it's nice to hear it with, it's nice to hear it from you, even we all agree but you have a warning. Mr. Petrov, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63581	Dear Ministers, when I speak of repressive measures, I speak of what has been carried out, unfortunately I don't have enough time, I'm also talking about tendencies. You know what the first law the Prime Minister tried to change before Covid's first case came to Croatia? The law to transfer the powers of the assembly to the government. You know how he reacted when we refused, when we came as an opposition? You'll be begging me to do it with a threatening finger. I'm telling you openly, and that's not the way and you can see it in this year and a half. [[Intruder: Mr., Mr. Petrov.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63582	Mr. Petrov, you weren't just, you weren't just the vice president, you were the president of this house, and you didn't mention the article. But I know, but you don't have to apologize to me, I mean, but why, why. Mr. Minister, if you'd like to respond, please respond. ... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63583	But I thank you all, thank you anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63584	No, you can't, you can't answer the same, and I thank you all especially for your injuries to the Rules of Procedure. It was ironic if you didn't understand. Let's move on. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on. I'm closing the debate and we're going to the second item of the agenda... to me, to me, please, but take off the mask for me to hear. [[Intruder: You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63587	The President-in-Office, the inclusion of this item has injured Article 16(1) of the Parliamentary Rules of Procedure, which regulates the working body president. Namely, there remains the unresolved legal status of the session of the Committee of Resolution held on 12.10, at which an anti-statual decision was made on the proposal of the candidate for the head director of HRT, as there were only 5 out of 13 present, there was no quorum. The following day, a session with the quorum was held, and neither was the legal status of the previous session annulled. The point has been removed today strategies and corruption this is tight. [[Thank you very much, thank you, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63588	We heard, we heard, I can't even give you a warning because it's...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63589	There's nothing left for us but to obstruct this point.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63590	All right, you guys, but listen to me, at least listen to what I have to say, listen to what I have to say. And that's the minimum education to listen to what I have to say. Okay, there is no, and you, this is on, this is the item of the agenda voted and you should have rebelled while the agenda item was voted, the addition of the agenda. And now this one you do whatever you want, and I'll, I'll work on it, by that another 20, those 18 minutes that I'm going to enjoy here with you because then my replacement comes, but I'm going to have 18 more minutes of pleasure. - Proposal for a Decision appointing the head director of the HRT which was voted as a item of the agenda and it is being held today according to this as planned. The proposal is proposed by the Committee on Information, Information and Media under Article. 19.a. HRT law. If, if the applicant's representative wants to be given, wait a minute, if he wants a representative, I have to read it, and then you give it, if he wants to give an additional explanation. It's the lady, wait, it hasn't started yet, I haven't opened the debate, there can't be a break. I'm sorry, and listen, we'll keep playing, but let me just say who's going to talk about it, and then I'll let you say "injure the Rules of Procedure." Wait, yeah, wait. What you're saying is you're obstructing, and I'm not agreeing to obstruction, but I will decide when you will respond to the breach of the Rules of Procedure. - Mrs. Crescent. Natalija Martincevic, Committee President Zeljko Pavić, Goran Ivanovic, Vesna Bedekovic and other members of the board, one of them will take the floor, but before that, before that, they can, before that, we will give injuries to the Rules of Procedure, please. But, but, but, just, just, just, just one, just one moment. No, it's just... 5 minutes, 5 minutes break, and then I will, but before you start arguing all between you I will tell you one thing that before the breach of the Rules of Procedure I have to open the debate because the breach of the Rules of Procedure can only be at the moment of the debate, and this and the rest can only be at the moment of the debate. [[What are you doing in the circus from the assembly?]] But we've got five minutes now, so we're gonna, uh, come over here, and we'll figure out what we're gonna do. No presidents come here, club presidents. It's 8:15 p.m. Sir, everyone, please take your seats. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 20.17 HOURS]] Then breaks can only be sought in a Colloquial manner, breaks can only be sought when the debate begins, but injuries to the Rules of Procedure can be sought at any time. So now all I'm gonna do is hurt the Rules of Procedure. The first is Mr. Bozo Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63592	Dear Chairman, he's hurt. I ask you to stop the time first, stop the time and calm down the HDZ parliamentary representatives who are nervous and we would be nervous if we were convicted of crime, just calm down. [[Intruder: Stanka, break]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63593	I'm sorry, no marbles, please, no marbles. Excuse me, wait a minute. You, I'm sorry, before you rebelled against the marble, here you are, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63594	The Honorable Chairman...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63595	Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63596	The Honorable Chairman...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63597	No, no, time, return time to one, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63598	The Honorable Chairman, he's hurt...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63599	Injury, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63600	...Art. 236 and you hurt him because he was previously injured by the working bodies. 50th, Art. 16, you did not give an explanation at the time when the parliamentary representative asked you for an explanation and asked to stop this point because it is not possible to continue, so the conditions are not met, and you did not provide an explanation. I'm asking you to give an explanation to the MP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63601	Now please sit down, this point is on the agenda. What you have said has entered the stenogram, you should contact the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system that will take a position then, but I am going on as voted today's agenda. - Mrs. Crescent. Sandra Bencic, breach of the Rules of Procedure. First, first Bojan Glavasevic, but let's keep the peace, everyone will have the right word.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63602	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. He's been injured. 248th that's talking about the break. Namely, you should have approved a break the moment it was requested, that was before you announced the point so because during the session the representative of the club of representatives once during the day can request a break for the meeting, so the moment it is requested you should approve it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63603	Mr. Glavasevic, I must warn you... I don't know why because it hasn't started yet, I have to give a warning. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] You know why? Because the break cannot be requested until the point is started and the point is not started.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63604	The president of the assembly approved a break this morning before he announced the point.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63605	He tells me, he tells me, the secretary tells me I'm wrong, then it's okay, then it's okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63606	Yes, I am without a warning?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63607	Then you have, then, then you have, then you have the right and you have, you don't, you have the right... You don't have a warning, and I'm asking you to write down that notice for yourself, okay? [[Applause]] I'll give myself a warning, okay? Let's write it down. This one's a lady now. Sandra Bencic, the breach of the Rules of Procedure, but that violation of the Rules of Procedure will listen to Mr Sanader who is now replacing me with my dissatisfaction, I wanted to stay with you all night, but I won't be able to, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63608	Here's your Honorable representative, Bencic, your turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63609	Therefore, I request that the infringement of the Rules of Procedure be established for the same reasons of breach of Article 236 and for infringements of Articles 50 and 16. The Rules of Procedure, as the session agenda is included, shall include a point for which the conditions are not met. It was an irregular session which was repeated the day after, and was repeated in a way that the regularity of the session had not been declared the day before, that the members of the working body had not received all the necessary information about it. And that it's actually a situation where you tell us that we're in the absurd that we want, that I want to point to, which is that if we were to turn to now if you'd like to now [[Intruder: Time.]] I've spoken to... [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63610	You have a warning. Next, the next MP, Domagoj Hajdukovic, injured the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63611	Thank you, so Article 248 is injured about taking a break and the way it should be given, but here you have announced that you will give the breaks to the colleagues who asked for it so that it should be fine, then I don't think there will be any harm if you give them a break. I figured that out, okay, then all right.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63612	Injury of the Rules of Procedure Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63613	This is Article 238 of the Injury, the demeaning of parliamentary representatives. This is indeed a precedent even for the Croatian Parliament. The fact that we had an anti-static session of the Committee of Resorbs where the members of the board for the first time managed to deposit their bodies, not to be on the board and keep the quorum. On the basis of which we have an identical session the day after and now we should have a debate is the bottom of even this call that you chair.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63614	A reminder to you, too, because this was a pure replica. The next violation of the Rules of Procedure, Dalia Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63615	I thank the president. Indeed, Article 248 was injured in the manner in which your predecessor, when chairing the meeting of the Croatian Parliament, made it impossible for me as the applicant of the request for a break to explain the break the moment the request was made. Such practice shows the intention and very intense, evil intentions of HDZ to obstruct and prevent the work of opposition parliamentary deputies. It's extremely inappropriate and outrageous.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63616	Okay, since you've already been granted a break as far as I'm aware, you just now wanted to know if this was a breach of the Rules of Procedure. So now you have a warning. [[/Intruder: Yes, it is.]] Now, here's an explanation for the break. Now, here's your explanation for the break if you'd like. Dear Representative Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63617	I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Center Club and the GLAS party for 10 minutes to conduct consultations with other opposition clubs. Namely, this is not the item of the agenda that we were supposed to discuss today. No conditions have been met for the debate on this point, and this point has been forced and inserted into the agenda as previously an emergency from the agenda has been removed from the draft anti-corruption strategy for the next ten-year period. Given the fact that the draft was drawn up by the HDZ government, given the fact that the HDZ is a political party that is legally convicted of corruption, this HDZ draft Anti-Corruption Strategy should not be discussed, neither next week nor at any time. We need an anti-corruption strategy that will create opposition, not a corrupt government. And part of that strategy, and part of the plan is both obstruction and prevention of debate on this next item of the agenda because we must oppose further capture of HRT as a public institution in the political message and in the ironing image of HDZ. For the opposition, this appointment of the new director-in-chief is controversial and after the former principal has been arrested for corruption, and it has been linked to the HDZ, we are justifiably asking ourselves whether this proposal is the appointment of a new principal who is once again linked to HDZ corruption in progress, corruption in the process. And I call on opposition deputies to ask whether today's HDZ had anything different from that of Sanader's time. Did Lovro Kuščević, Josipa Rimac, Ministers of Borgovci, and even parliamentary representatives from the HDZ from this convocation of the Croatian Parliament, which we were removing parliamentary immunity for corrupt crimes, Barišić, Puljušić, Zulim had any different, had any different from the HDZ, which is testified by a powerful verdict. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63618	Your apartment has already been approved. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Marija Selak Rasudic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63619	Article 238, my colleague Oreshkovic demeaned me because she did not say the key thing, which is that the party convicted of corruption is just planning to carry out a new corruption on HRT by appointing the head of the institution of a person in conflict of interest. We don't give you HRT, and it won't work this time.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63620	On the basis of Article 240(1), I give you a reminder by taking away the words, that is your second warning. Following is the explanation of the break of the distinguished representative Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63621	Thank you. I am looking for a break on behalf of the Green-Left bloc Club so that we all here together as an opposition, knowing that by ruling in these consultations, we will not participate, discuss, discuss whether it is possible that the day after the ruling party and the majority in this Parliament have received a verdict as a party for corrupt crimes that puts a person in the process of the director of HRT, who is in an equivalent example of conflict of interest, who is connected with the minister of culture, who is the person who has two companies, not one company, has two companies that sell services to that same HRT and the same HRT that at the highest point show so on. the political one that has yesterday does not speak in the Open about the HDZ's verdict but talks about the situation in Kosovo, it is the topic opened yesterday and the same radio and television that today would have to have because it cannot shut up that verdict, says it will discuss it a little bit and then the situation in the opposition because what power and opposition it needs because it is the same. When you take 14 million, or when the Homeland Movement leaves the Homeland Movement, it's probably the same for HRT. And we should now talk about this and such candidate who will continue to implement and discuss such a HDZ policy on HRT. We won't, neither will you, and we won't let you vote him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63622	I'll give you my permission to take a break, but it's the same. In 293 we continue to work. Injury of the Rules of Procedure Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63623	Thank you very much. Art. In 238, Mrs. Bencic was injured by an article. 238, because apparently, in her desire to edit the HRT, she said everything she said. And only in SDP 14 of them can throw out 18 others, so we don't understand what this opposition is doing here right now, but I would ask you vice president to put order into this assembly so we can continue to work peacefully.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63624	Okay, a reminder to you, too. I'm declaring a five-minute recess, and I'm asking the guards to provide conditions for working in the assembly. I'm declaring a 10-minute recess and I'm asking the Assembly's watch to create conditions for our work. [[It's a meeting at 8:33 p.m.]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 8:43 A.M.]] I'm asking you to take your seats.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63626	.../Conversation off./...... which we were supposed to discuss but we can't because HDZ is preventing the day after he got The corruption verdict discusses how to install tomorrow [[Intruder: I ask you to take your seats so that we can continue to work.]] the new director of HRT. [[Attack Sanader: Mrs. Bencic you didn't get the word.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63627	I must give you a warning then. Since the conditions for continuing work have not yet been created, I declare a break. It's a meeting at 8:48 p.m. Mirela, you didn't get the word. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 21.32 A.M.]] A warning, a reminder for Mirela. ... We're going back to work. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Please release the microphone. Mirela's been warned. Warning to Mirela, we're moving on. Please... here's a warning for Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63629	Dear Chairman, someone has taken colleagues from the HDZ. None of them want to discuss HRT. They're obstructing this session. Please consider that You have to interrupt the session because there are no colleagues from HRT who want to discuss this point. [[What's his name?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63630	And what was this? This is high democracy, isn't it?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63631	... HRT or HDZ is the... [[Specially enabled.]] I guess that's clear to everyone, HRT equals HDZ. [[Specially enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63632	And what was that about now? A demonstration? Are you done? Done? And you didn't, so let's get it over with. Finish it, let's see what. ... Well, no, no, I've got something else to say. Who's got one? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] What did you say? I didn't understand. Did you say something? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63633	No, I don't. I've only found that there are no colleagues from HRT who want to discuss this, from HRT or HDZ, but that's the same thing, so it's a Freudian shortfall. So there aren't any of them who want to discuss this point, so then we can't have a debate, it's not about the opposition, it's about the HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63634	Oh, well, let me. Here, she's here. ... And will you let him come, will you let him come to this one? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Will you let this one pass, speak? Oh, no? That's democracy, huh? ... This is high democracy, good job. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Wait, I'm not hearing, who's talking now? [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63635	... We'll let all the sessions that are registered begin. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-14-0.u63636	Here, Selak Rasdic, a warning. No, she spoke without permission. ... Who? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Please, I didn't give you my word. Will you let this representative say something? Oh, no? [[Intruder: No.]] Here, it's a democracy on how our opposition implements. The bush. This is Grmoya's, democracy. Is there anyone else coming? Okay. I see this democracy is in an opposition way, so we're left with a session if you won't let us talk. Mr. Peric, would you like some? Did you have something on behalf of.../incomprehensible/... what, shrub to you, uh, where you burned that Grmoya decides you want to talk or you won't? It's a new... Reformers. Okay. Okay, then we interrupt the session if you... And here, we'll see, we'll keep going through the night, we'll have to. Here I call... Where is he? Where is he? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Okay. .../incomprehensible/... An injury, and I can't give it to you, Mr. Bolt. I can't see you. ... Okay. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We'll continue tomorrow morning now. A meeting of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and political system. [[Intruder: So, you must behave your function.]] Tomorrow [[Intruder: And say, if you interrupt the session, until you interrupt it.]] You have a second warning. You have a second warning, Mrs. Devereaux. Selak Rasudic, you didn't let me say. We continue the session at 9 p.m. and after a statement on the amendments, and let the session of the Constitution be convened, the business system and the political system, to already be declared to this request. How about that? Here, eyes. Tomorrow morning is the meeting of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system with, to give you an answer to this request you made, and we will continue the session tomorrow morning at 9:30 with discussions on the amendments. If that's all right. Session interrupted at 21.40 p.m. [[/Intruder: And this point when we continue?]]
