ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u57715	Before we proceed with the announced discussions pursuant to Article 226(2). I will propose to the Rules of Procedure to supplement the agenda of the 8th session with two new points. These are the Proposal for a Decision appointing the Director-General of HRT and the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Penal Code. In the first proposal for a decision, the proposal is proposed by the Committee on Information, Information and Media, and the second point is the proposal of the Club of Representatives of MOST. The proposal to supplement the agenda was submitted by electronic means. Since the conditions have been met, I would like to establish that the proposed items are included in the agenda of the 8th session. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I would also like to inform you that we will discuss the point of the Proposal for a Decision appointing the Chief Director of HRT tomorrow as a second point instead of the point of the Proposal for a Strategy for the Prevention of Corruption for the period from 2021 to 2030, and we will discuss this point next week. We would also like to inform you that today as the last fourth point we will discuss and the point of choice, appointment and resolution where we will discuss the Proposal for a Decision on the resolution and appointment of the Secretary of the Croatian Parliament. Here's your buddy, Grmo.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u57716	On behalf of the MOST Club, I would like to express a protest that this week's debate moves an important point that is the Anti-Corruption Strategy and that the election point of the HRT director is included. In particular, taking into account all the charges put at the expense of HDZ candidate who is in an eclectic conflict of interest as he is dealing with HRT and at the time when our former principal is arrested for participation in serious affairs. So I'm expressing my protest, and I demand that the point be returned. The Anti-Corruption Strategy, with this point on the selection of HRT director, being delayed in view of serious doubts about conflict of interest, as well as how the Information and Media Committee was held I'm asking, so I'm asking for a vote on this. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u57717	No, there's no voting here, it's not an emergency procedure, so we can't vote on it. You can appeal to the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system that I have violated the Rules of Procedure. I don't think that since the right of the president of the assembly is to establish agenda and dynamic debate. So that's the instrument you have at your disposal. And the point you mentioned on the Anti-Corruption Strategy will be discussed next week. Thank you very much, so let's move on to the agenda as we are, you'll be looking for a break, I guess, here's just to make an introduction and then you will. Dear parliamentary deputies and parliamentary representatives, we begin work this week. As always, we first have the position of clubs and independent representatives. The first one today will speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most, dear colleague Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u57764	Dear Croatian peoples, citizens, MPs. Here, you're all wondering what I'm wearing for a gift. It's not a gift. It's a naked truth. Croatian citizens in the EU and in Europe, a liter of fuel, gasoline or oil pay the most expensive, while half a million of our citizens have paid below.../incomprehensible/... workers, below minimum wage, pensioners barely survive, so this oil crisis is not from now on. This liter of oil I brought is 100% more expensive than last year. Before this gathering, when oil came to 12 kuna. In BiH, there are 3 kunas cheaper oil. Three years, three kunas. I expect the Minister, i.e. The government of the Republic of Croatia on behalf of the Bridge Club can say, they have taken measures. The measures are simple. It is not our citizens' fault that no one in Croatia controls the margins of merchants, and the state does not want to give up its excise duties. The margins are 100% higher than in recent years, oil dealers. Our businessman, entrepreneur, farmer at this point is even more difficult than for example. in Austria where much higher salaries, their employees, workers, and in Croatia, the farmer will not be able to increase the salary of his entrepreneurs, his workers. You know why? That's because the state here is fine and does not control the margin, and the excise duty is not denied. And of course, if it's more oil, a man can't raise, an entrepreneur, pay his worker. And what it's going to lead to, is that this year we're going to have more of those who are going to be without electricity in their apartments, which is why this measure is important, and in the name of the Mosta Club, I say one more time. This year's HEP mandate, the Government, has an obligation not to switch off electricity during winter, because believe me, this problem is currently much bigger than these measures of pointless measures that are not for all the same, which is Covid measures. This is a much more dangerous problem, a problem of poverty, a problem of homeless people, a problem where entrepreneurs will have to fire their people, a problem of self-sufficiency, that farmers will have to shut down their farms, and no one is doing anything. They say today will be the Economic Social Council. So when this liter of oil was 100% more expensive, a few days ago, a few months ago. So where was the Government of the Republic of Croatia then to call the Economic Social Council, counterpart Bačić? Here, refer this to our people's plea for these measures. The measures must be spotless, no one can benefit and for the rich, we are like a liberal market, but cannot be an uncontrollable margin to traders. Uncontrollable. In BiH, at the border, 3 kuna is cheaper oil, fuel for the tank, at 100 litres, means 300 kuna. So what are you, at the bottom of the EU, the most expensive fuel we pay for, the most expensive gas we pay for, and the threat of poverty. That's why all the measures you're taking, and mostly because we're not self-sufficient right now, food will grow. We must give farmers new measures because simply our farmer cannot survive on the market in such competition. The merchants will now be uncontrollably rising prices. Uncontrollable price hike, no matter what liter of oil is closer to 20 kuna than 15 kuna. Uncontrollable price hike. How will people who work under the minimum wage, who do not have a fixed apartment, who are tenants, and those who have a housing issue, pay the directors if their employer can't raise their salary? The only ones here are apparently great multinational companies, I repeat again, who have a huge margin and who create an empire and get that money out of the Republic of Croatia. Stand aside from the people, for once. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u57808	As the sixth, she will speak to her respected colleague Vidovic Kristo as an independent representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u57809	Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday it was announced that the head of the Public Change Research Agency in Austria was a certain Sabina B. paid by the Austrian Chancellor with tax money to make his image and popularity look good. Because the thing is quite clear, if someone gets caught in the illegality of the government's body, they have to react immediately. In Austria, as well as in Croatia, it should be illegal to manipulate the media, as it is illegal to pay that manipulation with citizens' money to break those citizens. In Croatia, however, we witness the persistent pride of the ruling structures, so again yesterday we witnessed the holding of a media conference organised by Hanza Media, publisher of the Jutarnji list, and this conference without any business logic was paid by the state loser HZ. A variety of state officials attended, including Minister Butkovic, who, due to lack of money, abolished bus lines for students in the Dalmatian hinterland. At the same time, the Hanžekovic family, which leads the executive injustices in Croatia, has money, but saves on schoolboys because there is no money for them. It is the control of the media that the government pays to Croatian citizens' money is the key to the corruption structures in Croatia. Because if the media did their job professionally, then they'd report facts and then there wouldn't be scandals like that. Currently in the City of Zagreb. The affair over Zagreb's Holding confirms that Croatians are ruled by groups called the Deep State. The stumbling block in Holding is a certain Ratko Bajakic reported to be a top financial expert. It's exactly the manipulation I'm talking about because Mr. is definitely no expert, because this Bajakic has gained his positions for his father's communist power, not because he's a financial genius. And that confirms the next fact. In addition to being a longtime co-worker of controversial Darko Ostoje former owner of Dom Holding, Ratko Bajakic was also chairman of Tesla Bank's supervisory board. Tesla's bank should be told next. A bank that needs to be cared for and directed at clients based on their national belongings is unnatural, anti-democratic and of course discriminatory and businessally completely absurd. This Tesla bank has failed, so Bajakic has led to the collapse of the absurd bank. Where is Ratko Bajakic's ability to do so if one bank led to a collapse? Also, a man who holds on to his business dignity would not even smell an engagement in an anti-civilization project like Tesla Bank. How, then, is it possible for this man to be shown as a media expert without investigating the results of his expertise? Because the results are devastating. And the naive and obviously incompetent mayor Tomaševic takes such a man as his chief operative in running Zagreb's Holding. If it is to trust a former member of the Management Board of the Holding of Anti Samodol, that Bajakic used expressions such as, I am a wolf, and you are sheep, then it proves the professional level of children of communism that Bajakic clearly is. They only function on the basis of non-transparent privilege, media protection, but business skills in a healthy business environment do not exist in these people. As long as the state's attorney's office is not decorated and depolitized, and it does not process people from the government and people from the media as in the Austrian case in Croatia, there will be a variety of Bajakics with incredible wealth they have acquired in an untransparent way, but there will therefore be a vast majority of Croatian citizens from health, police to agriculture that will bring an end to the end and live on the edge of poverty. We in Croatia have a choice between the rule of law, free media and the rich state and on the other hand the rule of children of communism, controlled and corrupt media and politicians and poor Croatia. I choose the rule of law and the right of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u57824	Let's move on. Now it's my dear colleague William Matula's turn, on behalf of the Green-Left Block Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u57825	I would like to thank Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. After the unremembered heats of this summer around the world, absolute heat records, megafires, devastating floods, apocalyptic leeches, here our ministers are beginning to mention climate change. Minister Coric insists that we must react because it will be too late soon. Yeah, we agree. Minister Bozinovic says climate change is the most important security threat and we fully agree. But imagine, our banks, more specifically our banks, and now should say, banks operating in Croatia, climate change is not seen as a serious threat to their business. According to the CNB survey, only one out of 20 banks believes that the climate will have a significant impact on the business of financial institutions. So it is high time we started to measure the impact of our business on the environment according to the principles of social justice, solidarity, transparency and co-decision. It is a necessary step in protecting nature, water, rivers, sea, atmosphere. So the CNB must include the climate aspect as one of the main elements in the risk assessment of the supervision of business banks. The definition of exposure of the financial sector to climate risks as well as the identification of potential risks for the overall economy must be an integral part of that assessment. And in this sense, the bank will be more successful as the greater percentage of the total assets will focus on financing sustainable economy projects. And especially when the projects achieved are shown to be effective. I'm a little weaker than you are, but okay. The banks, however, still prefer to record what we all know to watch, those sweet commercials with our escrow stars that convince their fans that only the latest bank card can teach them safe and desirable. This puts people secretly into the quiet minus, in the quiet increased interest from 7.5% to 12.5 which we all know is not an increase of 5% but by 60% and thus 840,000 Croatian citizens are in a minus of almost a third of Croatia. Instead of short-term profits, we need to put a long-term social contribution into focus through the financing of sustainable economy projects and green re industrialisation of green sustainable jobs. Instead of symbolic sustainable financing, we need the right, large sustainable financing based on an environmental sustainability assessment of the project. In the fight to prevent a bank's climate disaster, we must encourage them to develop their own strategies and organisational departments that will assess the risk of financing a sustainable economy and measure an ecological footprint. In a month, it will be two years after the European Parliament voted in a resolution on the declaration of a climate and environmental crisis. The earthquakes in Zagreb and the surrounding area, of course, as well as the earthquakes in Banja, are acute crises and the same as the Covid crisis, but if the banks want to encourage a responsible and reasonable assessment of climate and environmental risk, we will declare the climate and environmental crisis tomorrow. In such circumstances, the CNB will be forced to start estimating the climate risk of financial placements. If large sustainable financing sounds unreal or utopian, and in this case the establishment of a state-owned green bank, the state for financing green economic transition will prove that change is possible. A public green bank based on the principles of ethical banking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u57826	Thank you. Now it's the HDZ Representatives' Club, dear colleague Goran Ivanovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u57901	Thank you very much, esteemed President HS, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Today is October 13th, the day when we mark the International Day of disaster risk reduction. The international day of disaster risk reduction on 13 October each year has been marked on the UN initiative since 1989. in response to the call for an understanding of the global culture of awareness of the risk and the reduction of the risk of disasters or the thinking of how people and communities around the world reduce their exposure to disasters and raise awareness of the importance of risk management that they face. This year's International Day for disaster risk reduction is dedicated to strengthening co-operation with developing countries to significantly reduce their damages and losses by approaching the objectives of the Sendai disaster risk reduction framework. Three key documents dealing with this topic, which is the Sendai disaster risk mitigation framework 2015-2030.g. These are the UN's 2015 Sustainable Development Goals. As well as the Paris Agreement on Climate Change. The document was developed by the Civil Protection Directorate with the participation of members of the Croatian Platform to reduce the risk of disasters co-ordinated by the Civil Protection Directorate. The platform at national level plays a major role in promoting and taking actions to reduce the risk of disasters, and gathers academic, operational and political levels with the main objective of transfer of knowledge, giving solutions, and the development of various planning documents and their implementation in order to reduce the risk of disasters. The risk management of disasters is a complex process in which implementation is necessary to include national, regional and local levels of government as well as other levels and civil society organisations, thus enabling the dissemination of knowledge, information and stronger responsibility for effective risk management in its environment. By marking the International Day of disaster risk reduction, the Civil Protection Directorate organises a number of suitable activities each year to mark the International Day of disaster risk reduction that this year has to do with strengthening international co-operation with developing countries through the provision of the needs of their risk reduction activities. The Central Marking of this October 13th special emphasis is given this year by the Civil Protection Directorate and wants to invest in the youngest generations, education of children and young people on reducing the risk of disasters. As a priority of the directorship in efforts to raise awareness and promote the importance of reducing the risk of disasters with this goal, a number of activities have been planned throughout Croatia. The central part of the marking will be focused on the presentation of educational disaster models announced through the project On the way to reducing the risk of child disaster in elementary schools in four cities in Zagreb, Split, Rijeka and Osijek, which will serve students with floods, earthquakes, karst landscapes, erosion and volcanoes. I want to say in this last minute, of course, how important this is. We can't predict disaster, but we can prepare for it anyway. Civil Protection Directorates have invested a lot in education in training their forces in regional, local communities. Of course, without trained people and without equipment, we won't reduce the risk of disaster, and let's face it, what's been happening lately is certainly not bypassing us. Let us remember the earthquakes in Zagreb, the earthquakes in Banovina, and I would say that we did not invest in the knowledge of people who deal with this damage activity before that would certainly be much greater. So to end here I want to express great support to all volunteers for what they are doing with their activity, and we will certainly at least reduce the risk of disasters that we will be honest with sooner or later, and will not be announced in advance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u57977	Now, as the seventh one, an esteemed colleague, Ante Prkacin, will speak on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u57978	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u57979	Yeah, it's on, it's on.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u57980	Give me back these five or six seconds, I might need it. So thank you and praise. There's been a few interesting talk in taking a stand, but I'm going to change the subject. My theme associates a little with the title of a genius song, the genius Tin Ujevic, "Everyday Poodikovka". I have been listening to moaning for 15 days and harder than Tin said in his song about the sad fate of the dear, good and almost eager migrants and the rudeness and unscrupulousness of Croatian politics when it comes to them. Interestingly, they are particularly loud descendants of former Croatian jurists and orianists. Their tears are the most, their tears are the largest. Well, look, I will speak for us whose migrants are neither dear nor good nor eager to wait for them. They are one monster, they are one disaster for the future of Europe, in the end they are with that goal and sent here because they are not a random, random phenomenon but they are an organised project. It's a deep state project. So, when I look at what is happening in Europe, I first ask those who are so keenly defending the rights of migrants, so should those who step on foot trucks, defend those who use firearms to kill peaceful citizens in theatres and cinemas, do they defend those who, in enthusiasm, or by means of measures or religious enthusiasm with Allah’s Ecber, cut off Christian heads. But I have to stop here. They not only cut off Christian but also Muslim heads and should make sure that this does not lead you astray from strengthening international and interfaith conflicts in our vicinity. I have heard some Bosniak, Muslim politicians not a political peak but some politicians who are much more mature in treating and looking at this problem and stressing its danger and criticising the authority that is unworthy of this problem of treatment and pride. Me in this position and attitude cannot change the fact that among these migrants there are honest and good people who have come to these places to find peace in work and in life, however, they are not a rule, they are an exception and they are a minority. But the way they entered Croatia and they did, it doesn't suit me. They cross the border illegally, they cross the border voluntarily, they violate our state, our national sovereignty, they trample our national pride, and there's us Croats, there's a great majority of us who have this pride and that pride we feel. So, to those left-green liberal, or not liberal, left-green, pardon, left-green Europhilic or Eurofanatic, which are simultaneously great fans of the character and works of Josip Broz Tito. Those tattoos, let them remember what was in Broz's country. Broz used firearms to defend the borders, any border guard who killed or wounded someone who crossed the border illegally, was commended, was rewarded. And what changed in their heads? That state was allowed to defend itself with firearms, and this one must not be defended by rubber sticks? Oh, please. Nothing in their heads has changed, it's changed next. The state changed, while it was their non-Croatian dear, it was to be defended by all means, and this Croatian unloved one should be destroyed in all kind of ways. They often talk, so don't we Croats have an understanding of these poor people, of these refugees, and we were refugees. Please take a look at the videos and see Croatian refugees from Far, Erdut, Skabrnj, etc. Poor people, old women, old people, it's a special kind of sadness on their faces. So look at the Serb refugees, let's be honest, from Flash and Storm, they didn't look good on tractors. However, not as sad and stingy as ours, because everyone else was driving a tractor that he robbed and kidnapped Croatia, but they didn't look nice. And look at these Satans, when you look at their faces, the dominant emotion is hate and anger, and those homeless people are getting involved in Europe, if we don't respond in time, there's a serious civil war in Europe, if it doesn't happen within 15 years, if it happens after 15 years, Christian Europe will lose that war, and you're smart in the head. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u58027	We are going to the third debate, on behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club, respected colleague Dragana Jeckov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u58028	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, I quote, during the previous census, it was difficult for me especially when I had to make a statement about the nationality that caused me to feel uncomfortable and afraid, I hope that this list will be without fear and pressure that we can freely declare ourselves as we feel, the end of the quote. This is a statement by one of our fellow Serbian citizens in Istria who appeared to us expressing hope that this time there will be no fear and discomfort from certain issues in the census. Otherwise, by the end of the list, we've only got a few days left unless there's an extension by the end of the 10th month. Unfortunately, this time, information from the field isn't great. People turn to institutions by reporting numerous irregularities, detesting that certain censuses did not adhere to the rules of the census and the instructions issued by the State Statistics Institute. I'll take some of them out. So at the request of the listed person that he had seen the complete list, they saw that the field of nationality had already been fulfilled. Wrongly fulfilled, on purpose or by accident, however, this man had enough courage and asked for explanations, and it was not too much. He was told that the programme automatically withdraws data and meets the field of nationality and that Croatian citizens are automatically Croats by nationality and that a person must seek an individual's own correction if the nationality is different from the nationality or that it is not the duty of the censusor to ask about nationality. The next example is an elderly gentleman who also came to us from Zagreb, said that he had not been asked about his nationality, and when he met her again in the same building, he asked why she had not asked him and what she had written, she said he was a Croat. At his request to correct it, he was told that the list was locked. Furthermore, in Karlovac County, individual censusors carry laptops that they say are malfunctioning and all listing information is listed on a piece of paper that will later enter into these same broken laptops. And when people asked, of course, an explanation for the writing on paper did not get any explanation, and he was worried about whether they were really listed and threatened with the danger of unspeakable writing. Furthermore, a gentleman in Vukovar asked a list of questions that did not exist in the questionnaire, which of course upset the list person because the question was like this. Did your son kill anyone in the war? This question for a listed person of course sounded amazing because his son was 11 years old during the war. In the breeding area, censusors were involved in interpreting what is the reference moment and the usual place of residence, so they refused to enroll persons who were away from their territory on 31.8.2020 in that year. Or the situation where the censusors refused to list those members of the household who were at the time of the census, who were not in the household, and I don't think they were abroad but were at the store. Because of everything that I have stated in various areas of the Republic of Croatia, we appeal to censusors, controllers and instructors, and finally to the State Statistics Service to perform their work in accordance with the positive regulations transparently, objectively and impartially without unnecessary emotional reactions, thus allowing them to freely declare themselves as they feel. I'm taking the opportunity to welcome all those writers and controllers who work hard and consciously, professionally doing this demanding job, and I know they won't answer me. These others I said something about will appear in my inbox, and I will, of course, provide all the irregularities I was talking about to the Croatian Statistics Institute.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u58029	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Comrade Pavlich, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u58030	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, 238. A colleague of Dragana Jeckov's efforts to present a large part of the censusors to the unprofessional, unprofessional, subjective and anti-manine-oriented, which is not true. Unfortunately, it's happening the other way around right now. So here's an example of one from Vukovar a few days ago, Novoselska Street, a family that is more than 20 years old. in the Republic of Serbia, she gave her code to list via the OIB via the Internet to his neighbor who handed it over... [[Employer: Coliček colleague]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u58031	Coliček, a colleague of Pavliček, time is up, colleague Pavliček, time is up. First of all, you've hurt the Rules of Procedure, there's no speech here about the injured Rules of Procedure, this was a pure replica, so please don't do what I asked you to do last week. Another violation of the Rules of Procedure, Comrade Beljak, please. Turn yourself off. Comrade Pavlich, turn off the microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u58032	Thank you very much. A colleague, Pavlic, was injured by an article. 238. The Rules of Procedure stated that a large number of censusors are unprofessional or that this implies that it is unprofessional, which is essentially true. I also warned the commission and the people in the statistical office before preparing the census, where no clear criteria were set for the censuses, and then what was said by colleague Jeckov. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u58033	Comrade Beljak, you also get a warning because it wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, it's also a replica. Let's move on now, Club of Representatives of the Croatian Sovereignities, dear colleague Marijan Pavliček, please. Like the 12th, an honorary colleague of Anka Mrak-Taritash will speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u58098	Thank you very much, dear colleagues and colleagues. I decided to use this 5-minute speech today as an introduction or overture to the next item of the agenda. In the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, 116 writes, the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, with the preliminary opinion of the General Session of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia and the competent board of the HS, on the proposal of the President of the Republic of Elections and resolves the Croatian Parliament. A fairly clear article, about whose authority it is to propose the President of the Supreme Court, fairly clear procedure on the subject of which the whole of Croatia has been strained for months. Or perhaps the procedure is not so clear after all, and for this uncertainty in time, take care of HDZ with its amendments and additions to the 2018 Law on Courts. In the then applicable version of the law, there was suddenly some new additional procedure for which it was not clear at all what it could serve and what it meant, except that by its very existence, it limits a very clear formulated direct authority of the President of the Republic and that the water was clouded as clearly as it did, and we well know who was hunting in the cloudy water, so in this Law it writes in a new article. 44a that the election process is triggered by the DSV by the publication of a public invitation for candidates to submit applications, then the DSV candidates are delivered by the Office of the President of the Republic. It's always a question of why. For what reason is the additional procedure for the procedure that the Constitution has very clearly prescribed and defined, the president proposes, without DSV and a public call. The answer to the question why this additional and unnecessary procedure is very clear and can be summed up by that famous winged slogan, the slogan that has already cost us 30 years of Croatian future, is clear. You know why all this is happening. Because HDZ has to have its boot over every institution and state and it will do everything to keep it that way. From creating unnecessary procedures that weaken the authority of various institutions in the country to neglecting or deafening their tasks. In this country one can be a night porter without bowing to HDZ. So how could anyone believe that the election of a president or president of the Supreme Court who proposes someone else would go uncomplicated? According to its statistics, Croatia is a country whose citizens and businesses, and judges themselves least trust their judiciary of all EU member states. We have the most lags, the most lengthy procedures, and in further education of judges and public information we are among the worst. It doesn't surprise anyone, and at least those who pretend to have nothing to do with it have nothing to do with their people for the last 30 years, they've been shaking these courts. Some for more than 30 years. The choice of President or President of the Supreme Court was an opportunity to at least symbolically, and symbolism is always important in politics, turning a new leaf. Instead, it's all dirty and dragged through the mud and the process itself and the brilliant first proposed candidate. Of course, no one thinks that the President of the Supreme Court can solve all the problems of our judiciary on his own, but the political summit of our country has the opportunity to make choices and, by choosing candidates, show the willingness and the political will to change things. That as a country, we've matured enough that the political paws on prey are not exactly the only criteria we're leading. We missed that chance again. Today in the Assembly we will discuss another candidate, he will hopefully get the support of the MPs and become the President of the Supreme Court, but the trust of citizens, companies, and the judges themselves in their own judiciary will have to build on another occasion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u58099	I thank all those who participated in the debate. We've come to an end.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u58155	Dear President HS, colleagues and colleagues. Yes, and we will also submit a number of irregularities to the competent institutions of the Institute of Statistics relating to the census that go to the damages primarily of the Croatian people in the city of Vukovar and the national mixed environments. There's a lot of it, and there's going to be more of it in the future. As you all know on 24 October Croatian sovereigns together with their partners Croatian Party of Rights, but what is even more important, with more than 2,000 volunteers and several hundred prominent individuals, are going to collect signatures to protect the Croatian Kuna. We believe that only the Croatian people can decide to change the monetary unit to the Republic of Croatia in a referendum. In the past few months, we have one big media campaign by Prime Minister Plenkovic and Governor Vujčić, who are trying to promote the EURo and talk about the benefits of the EUR. I personally have not heard any valid argument that contributes to them. There will be no increase in foreign investment by entering the euro zone, neither will Croatians get paid, nor will the tourist season be better because we have EURo, not more kuna, we will not fall short from the sky and let us not fool ourselves. That's what I've been counting on. It's up to us. It depends on whether we are going to implement structural reforms in the economy, whether we are going to relieve Croatian entrepreneurs and craftsmen from a number of parafiscal duties and thus enable further economic development of Croatia. However, many economic experts believe that Croatia is not ready to enter the euro area at the moment. So science doctor Maruška Vizek, deputy director of the Economic Institute in Zagreb, said clearly a few days ago. I definitely think 2023. It is not a good year for the introduction of EUR because the Croatian economy is not structurally ready for such a move. We may be meeting the requirements, in fact we just need to see if we meet the convergence criteria so that the EURo can be introduced at all. However, the state of our economy, not implementing structural reforms, very low labour productivity growth, lack of visible income convergence, lack of structural convergence to make the economy anything similar to those in the euro area is a very questionable quality of institutions. At this point, Croatia is unfortunately not ready. Another well-known economic expert, Ljubo Jurcic, says we are going down quickly, with the EUR we will go even faster. Individuals think that the EUR-o gold euro is gold, but the gold mine has Germany, not Croatia, so if you want to have the euro then you must always go to the Germans to give you something gold. But we return to the referendum itself, and many difficulties are in the field because you have absurd situations that individual units of local self - government require extremely large amounts to rent public areas. So for example, renting public area up to three squares in Osijek is 200 kuna per day. You need at least five such locations, that's a thousand kuna times 15 days you need 15 thousand kuna for the city of Osijek alone. In one tourist destination, rent costs 50 kuna per hour, so for eight hours of one square stand you need 400 kuna times five locations in that city that is 2,000 times 15 days, 30,000 kuna, so you need cca about a million kuna just to rent public surfaces. So much for how much the Institute of Referendum in the Republic of Croatia works, but we will still collect a sufficient number of signatures because there is a Croatian people with us and this will show the people in these next two weeks. But this way, I would also like to call on the main daily commentator in the Republic of Croatia, the president of the state of Zoran Milanovic, to be seen on the subject. On a daily basis, he comments on many very banal topics that do not concern Croatian citizens, and this one, which weighs a large part of Croatian citizens and the Croatian economy, is silent about it. We call on him to hear his opinion whether the euro should be decided by individuals in their offices or the introduction of the euro should be decided by the Croatian people at the referendum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u58203	Let's move on, as the 11th will say, dear colleague Kresho Beljak on behalf of the HSS and RF Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u58204	Thank you very much, esteemed president of HS. My colleagues and colleagues. Today, on behalf of the HSS and RF clubs, I would say something about an idea that is increasingly running through the media and through the public, and it's called inflation. Inflation that was once a cancer of the early Croatian society and at the time of independent Croatia if I haven't been wrong there since 1993, '94. until the kuna was introduced and the whole decade before that during the former state. What is happening now with the gathering of a dramatic and significant price of fuel is something that is the first step towards galloping inflation, although it has been there for a long time, regardless of what fuel prices have been more or less stable so far and if they are growing, but since this pandemic crisis started, and the fact is that it has accumulated a lot of things and without the collection of fuel, the fact that there have been major price disturbances or price purchases in the construction sector, or the price of apartments, and it's all something that induces inflation in some way that doesn't give us, God forbid, is waiting again. God forbid for all those generations younger than 30 who do not remember what inflation means, which means on a daily basis price-gathering, which means buying solid currencies, although I am not sure how much the euro will continue to be a solid currency in this whole world context, in addition to being right and the fact that I am talking about real estate growth, not only in Croatia but everywhere in the world. What does the Croatian Government do to prevent this catastrophic scenario? And it would indeed be a disaster to refer to a speaker before who spoke about disaster prevention because, unfortunately, in the last 30 years, Croatia has cut off all its hands and all the legs on which it was sitting, any possibility of preventing a disaster called inflation and all that comes with it. So, I'm the energy sector that was relatively self-reliance for the Republic of Croatia by 1990, and we've destroyed it, starting with the INA that we sold, up to that Janaf, and up to the dependence on who knows what markets, and up to that unfortunate blockade or stop buying gas and oil from the eastern market, so now we buy at the highest price and simply depend on others, not ourselves. About agriculture and the destruction of agriculture and the food industry I won't talk at all, it doesn't make any sense anymore, God forbid some kind of disaster as it happens in the UK, Croatia will be hungry, we will be hungry, and then we will have people on the streets because Croatian agricultural production no longer practically exists or exists in the tracks to meet the minimum needs of a small market, such as Croatia and it is a shame. The financial sector that could also play in the case of inflation, the large regulatory function also does not exist because we unfortunately sold all the banks to foreigners and now we depend on them and on the will of the heads of these foreign banks that only have businesses in Croatia, somewhere in Italy, Austria, Germany, Russia or Hungary, and what may be the most important, is trade, wholesale, etc. or on a flat-rate basis, shopping centres are those that dictate without the government showing the will to interfere with their work because it is like a free market although I think in these conditions, the conditions that threaten us all, not only Croatia, but the whole world, and Croatia has a better chance here as a relatively small state, a stronger surface and a better hold in this crisis, there are also wholesalers who are also foreigners of crucial importance and I hope that this scenario will not come, because if Croatia comes as a state, the Government, ruling has simply no chance of having any other common strategy of all political forces that these sectors I have talked about, are being put into order. Otherwise, we have a row, or rows, like it used to be in Ban Jelačić Square, where suspicious people, some of whom are today, by the way, tycoons, will draw people by the sleeve and say what you younger don't remember, stamps, foreign exchanges, dollars, stamps, stamps, etc., etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u58276	We are now going to the fifth debate, SDP Representatives' Club, respected counterpart Mirela Ahmetovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u58277	Thank you very much. Dear President of HS, colleagues and colleagues. How phenomenal a place to live is the fact that since 11 October this year, people in the area of Gline have been announced to remain without warm meals. The explanation is hilarious, they live in containers so they can cook something. How much cooking is possible to make speeches and the fact that as they cook, condensation is created, so they have to open the door. The winter of electricity consumption is increasing, energy and food prices are increasing, people are leaving a message quoting "From Monday you no longer have the right to a warm meal". I want to appeal to both the National Headquarters and the local headquarters that these decisions are no longer being made, and I want to believe that the government and headquarters's reaction will bear fruit, but we will wait to see how this will be realized. And I really don't understand how meals can be abolished by people we know to live off agricultural pensions that are rare and up to a thousand kunas, people who receive social assistance. And even if they had the ability to cook, what would they cook, what would they buy groceries from? Therefore, it is necessary to re-write people who want to deliver warm meals and to enable them to do so. Whose back do you think this enormous price hike will break? Well, right on the back of the poorest, on these people who've been cut off by a warm meal. Most of their incomes are spent on drugs and going to a doctor, they don't have food. People become aware of the non-ma food. I spoke in this conference about price hikes and asked Minister Ćorić a question on September 15th, and I was worried about how we were about to have a bombist increase in energy and food prices. The minister then laughed inappropriately as if I were talking about circus points, but the clown behaviour of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the light of increasing all prices for citizens is not comedy, this is the government's behaviour for them becoming horror. We are threatened by an unprecedented blow to the citizens and the economy, and I have pointed out that I have proposed concrete measures related to the price of electricity and that the fees on the bills be reduced by modeling moves that the Spanish government has not made and the government is only now after a month of talking about how it thinks. What, what moves is the government considering? We didn't hear that. While the government is considering threatening citizens with energy poverty, it is therefore necessary to immediately introduce preventive electricity vouchers for all those who will not have the means to settle energy costs. It is also necessary to introduce intervention measures for the economy, especially in view of the increase in energy prices, so that the additional increase in precisely these prices does not overdo the citizens. We are witnesses of historical fuel prices, people travel daily to work, transport has to reach the destination daily. This price of fuel will trigger a spiral of poverty and lead to a new economic crisis that will be re-paid by Croatian citizens and those who, starting with the beginning of my story, no longer have a warm meal. If we know that fuel excises are 50 to 60% of its price, that means that from a liter of fuel that costs 11.05 kunas even 6.6 goes to the state. So isn't it easier for the state to give up part of the excise duty to keep the citizens liquid, so that the economy stays as stable as it is after a hurricane like this to have 200,000 more blocked potentially? I call on the government to reduce excise duty on fuel, to find ways to help the poorest, to influence the price of energy because the government can. Don't think, don't think too long, I warned the government about this a month ago. If, however, there is no government response, it is those who will be responsible for further impoverishing the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who, by purchasing power and by standard, camp in the last place of the EU. And the Prime Minister's self-thanks if the government's reaction to safe Croatia remains a difficult utopia and a shameless lie.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u58332	Let's move on, dear colleague Silvano HNS, HSU and independent representatives, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u58333	Dear Mr. President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. From 2017 to today, I have talked many times about the problem of our citizens, which I am going to talk about today. You're guessing the topic was the installation of European money in multi-story residential buildings in the Republic of Croatia. This is the problem of urban Croatia, it is a problem of cities where we have practically somewhere around, between 40 and 50,000 citizens who are trapped in their apartments and who do not live the quality of life they could live if they had a built-in elevator in their apartment buildings. I know that I have often been in this period, forgive me for expressing myself vividly, and I got by the ribs because I woke up the citizens' hopes that it would be installing the elevators with European money and not a little bit but 85%, and I was just passing on the information that I received indirectly from the European Commission that it was possible and trying to break it into our ministry. So, I've shared this hope many times and positive and communicated with the citizens and explained what it would mean and what it meant for public services to function, let's say the elderly then stay at home because they are available to public services, they can easily get to them, the pressure on the homes of the pensioners and on permanent accommodations and the extra-institutional care of the elderly, the powerless and the disabled. So, many times I've awakened those hopes, of course there hasn't been a result, and of course the bearer of good news gets by the ribs, gets a beating in the verbal sense anyway. What is the situation in this term? In this term, I visited the Ministry of Regional Development and EU funds twice. Natasha Tramišak. We have talked very calmly and very specifically about this problem, and one thing is certain, there are two certain possibilities of installing elevators into multi-story residential buildings, which is a programme of reconstruction and resilience for Zagreb and war and pardon earthquake affected, affected areas. Another option is as a horizontal measure in the energy reconstruction of buildings, so when the facades change, when windows change on buildings, then in the kit can be installed, which is comprehensive and what is quite expensive for, for the tenants. So these two options have been confirmed to me, and for the third possibility I was told that it is working towards the EU, which is an autonomous installation as a special project only lifts into multi-story residential buildings, which I think it has, that it has the highest need. So that's, that's what I'm saying, and every time I go out right now they're, right now wake up again, some hope, so it'll be after this speech if, if I publish it, but I'm asking for a different way this time. Since the last conversation sometime in the 6th month has been a long time, and the minister has promised to go public with this information, I ask Minister Natashu Tramišak from this place that because it is the duty of the ministry, and not the duty of the representatives, it is our job to launch initiatives, to talk about problems, and the executive power is there to solve them and communicate with the public, I ask her to address all the interested, and that is not a small number, to the Croatian public at what stage is the negotiation or negotiation with the European Commission about the possibility of autonomous installation of an elevator in a multi-story residential building with European money? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u58349	We are now going to the 8th debate, the Social Democrats Club, a respected colleague of Marina Opačak Bilic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u58350	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. Last week, here in the Parliament, I pointed out and warned about the current wave of gatherings, and I appealed to the authorities then to react and to set themselves up as they are. And they are a line of defense against enormous price hikes. But they still, as they say, are just looking at the situation, so I'm going to use today's five minutes to appeal to the government again to react to the extremely worrying inflation that we are witnessing and that we feel because the situation has crossed boundaries where it can only be observed and now it is necessary to react. Now we need responsible management of the state. In recent months, the main issue among citizens has been the accumulation of food, which has been totaled in the past year by almost 3%, and most of which are vegetables and oils and fats, especially cereals that have collected almost 100%. It is interesting that we are being collected by these very products as Slavonia stands to us unworked and increasingly devastationed and of course the question is being raised here, why we are addicted to import when we can produce and thus raise employment and stop emigration. With everything we have at our disposal, it is unacceptable that we are not focused on producing these over-needed foods, for which Croatia should not be deprived. We from the Social Democrats Club are wondering whether the Croatian Government is thinking about it or really only thinking about how much prices they can grow until they cross, until they exceed the psychological limit. Especially fuel, because the fuel did not exceed the psychological limit, but its price has been a major blow to our citizens' pockets and to the cost of our economy for six months. Last week, I warned that the amount of a liter of diesel had penetrated the border of 11 kuna, with today, a week later, we were already talking about the amount of 12 kuna. It is therefore important to say that the amount of fuel price, when the total cost of an oil company and retailing is charged, does not represent half of the total retail price of oil derivatives. So, almost 60% are various government taxes, from road and railway charges through a special tax, or excise duty, to what would you say, cake cream, VAT which is not calculated on the basic price of the derivative, but on the price increased for all charges, so effectively we can say that our drivers pay tax as if it were an extra luxury product, not a basic living need, which is what fuel and transport by their own vehicle today indeed is. From all I have stated, it is clear that the state has a large role in price formation and that it can largely be the same. To explain how much the fuel price burdens the budget of the average Croatian citizen. It may best be seen if we compare fuel prices with other EU countries, together with the comparison of the average salary, for example, that we do not go too far, 95 octan gas in Austria is currently on average cheaper for about 15 cents, i.e. 1 kuna, where the average net salary in that country is 3 times the average salary in Croatia. In Slovenia, petrol for kuna is cheaper and diesel is about 70 lipes, with an average salary of more than 50% higher than in Croatia and it is certain that the average salary in Croatia will eventually not grow in two-digit percentages, and so what the state can do is reduce rates of excise duties and other duties that make up more than half of the retail price of fuel. This would not only make daily life easier for citizens, but also affect their consumption and increase revenues on other grounds, and would further, of course, as I said and reduce the costs of our economy. But we have a government that is only a passive observer because, as we know from the Ministry of Finance, they still say they're just following the situation. We from the Social Democrats Club are as interested as all Croatian citizens, is there a plan and how will they react to this extremely large blow to our citizens' standard of living and will the government react as they are expected with the tools they have, which is fast and responsible? We are calling on the government to reduce the burdens and taxes so that we can go through this crisis in the most painless way, which, I repeat, is most of all over the backs of the poorest citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u61367	Next item of choice and appointment: - Proposal for a Decision on the discharge and appointment of the Secretary of the Croatian Parliament is proposed by the President of the Croatian Parliament on the basis of Article 41. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. President of the Committee on Selection and Designation and Administrative Affairs, Honored Nada Murganic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u61368	Thank you. On the basis of Article 51(1), At the 18th session held on 13 October 2021, the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge and appointment of the Secretary of the Croatian Parliament, which was addressed to the Committee by the President of the Croatian Parliament by its act of 11 October 2021. In accordance with Article 41(1), The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament of Ministers of the Croatian Parliament shall be appointed or shall be dismissed by the Croatian Parliament, and at the proposal of the President of the Croatian Parliament. On the basis of paragraphs 2 and 3 of the same article, the Secretary of the Croatian Parliament may be re-appointed to that office, and as regards the right under the law governing the rights and duties of representatives in the Croatian Parliament, the President of the Working Body of the Croatian Parliament. The Committee shall, following the examination and discussion carried out pursuant to Article 54(1), Article 105(1), first subparagraph. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament referred the following opinion. The proposal for a Decision on the discharge of the Secretary of the Croatian Parliament of Mr Davor Orlovic and the appointment of Secretary of the Croatian Parliament Davor Orlovic is supported and is proposed to the Croatian Parliament to make a decision in the text, as proposed by the author or president of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u61369	I open the debate, apply for debate on behalf of the Social Democrats' Club of Representatives, Domagoj Hajdukovic. He's gone, then I'll close the debate, and we'll vote when the conditions are met. With that, we've exhausted the agenda points for today's session. Tomorrow we will continue at 9:30 Report on the effects of the implementation of measures under the Law on the Protection of the public against infectious diseases during the Covid-19 disease epidemic caused by the SAR-COV-2 virus in the Republic of Croatia for the period from 1 June to 31 August 2021. Good night. Session interrupted at 22.08 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62205	Thank you very much, so let's move on to the agenda as we are, you'll be looking for a break, I guess, here's just to make an introduction and then you will. So, - Proposal for a Decision on the election of the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia is proposed by the President of the Republic of Croatia. The President of the Republic of Croatia sent this proposal on the basis of Article 116. Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, Article 44. Law on courts and Article 51 The State Judicial Council Act. Regulation (EU) No 1166/2013 of the European Parliament The Constitution is prescribed that the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, with the prior opinion of the General Session of the Supreme Court and the competent board of the Croatian Parliament, shall, on a proposal from the President of the Republic of Elections and resolve the Croatian Parliament. The report of the Justice Committee is an integral part of the proposal for a decision. Before we proceed with the debate and the likely speech of the chairman of the Justice Committee, he reported on the word, probably also for a break from a colleague of the coat of arms. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62206	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, I'm looking for a break on this agenda point because this is about one, so I can tell you a tragic situation. We've been late for more than three months to elect the Supreme Court president. Why? Because HDZ does not want to change the status quo in the Croatian judiciary. And the status quo in the Croatian judiciary means not solving the case, meaning poor court decisions, meaning justice that is not in the development and progress of the state but has become a brakesman almost everything. Dear colleagues and colleagues, of course none of us thinks or has the illusion that only one person change in the Croatian judicial apparatus without changing the legislative framework will be able to improve the same and allow it to function normally, but this change must be a start. There must be a start and there must be a awareness that the situation in the Croatian judiciary is wrong and that we here as representatives in the Croatian Parliament must change it. The choice of President of the Supreme Court, the choice of Judge Dobranić may be the beginning because it is a person who has shown great knowledge, but also human courage to make decisions that went in favour of the citizens, and to the harm of those who are more powerful and those who pressured those citizens. However, if this election does not follow a serious reform of the legislative framework, a serious change of law that will allow truly independent and impartial judges to do their job normally will do nothing. So you take this as an appeal to finally start doing and changing things that in Croatia is not good. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62207	Thank you. I'd also like to pray now before we move on, colleagues and colleagues from clubs who have less intended places than they are currently advocates to stick to it. Those are still the rules that exist, I'm asking you to, I won't warn you all very well who's sitting here right now and shouldn't be. Now she will explain the pause to her respected colleague, Selak Rasdic. Here you go. A fellow coat of arms, please microphone, microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62208	Nice couple of seconds. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the MOST Club because we've all closed our eyes to a key problem that's surfaced on this entire travesty over the election of the Supreme Court president. I'll remind you where the problem started. He started with disrespecting the procedure. HDZ refused to support the first president's candidate because she did not respect the procedure and thus sent a key message to the Croatian society that the procedure must be respected. And I can't agree with you HDZ colleagues anymore. Too bad it was all just a farce. Because what happened after that and what did we close our eyes on? Afterwards, we have a situation where our prime minister publicly boasts that a potential candidate called him and that he gave it on the basis of a telephone conversation before applying for a public call to Bianca's support. So, it's enough for Andrei to catapult you into the president of space, and we live in a country where the prime minister of the same state publicly boasts with such a move. In an orderly state, a person would expect that someone should first answer a public call, propose a programme, see all other candidates and make a decision on who will gain trust in such a responsible and independent function. No, we live in a country where the prime minister is publicly boasting that for such functions enough to do hello to Andrej. And that's the key message of this whole farce about the election of the Supreme Court president we closed our eyes to.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62209	Thank you. Comrade Zekanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62210	Dear President HS I demand a 10-minute break from the Croatian Sovereigns Club to further consult on this agenda item. The key fact here is that two people agree on this item of the agenda or on this appointment, one called Andrej Plenkovic, the other called Zoran Milanovic. And what Croatian citizens probably know, but sometimes they get a little distracted with the mind, which is that there are two people who have almost identical political views, who agree on all the key topics. With regard to the Istanbul Conventions, they have the same position, with regard to the migrant crisis, with regard to the introduction, the potential introduction of the EUR into Croatia and Croatia into the euro zone respectively. Let Zoran Milanovic convince me if I'm wrong. So we have two men of the same political stance and we have one play for the Croatian public. However, something good happened here, yet thanks to the clarity of Croatian sovereigns and by pointing out to a bad candidate, which is Zlata Djurdjevic, it happened that she did not pass. I'm glad she didn't pass, too, and I'm glad we have a candidate who is even acceptable to us Croatian sovereigns. And that's what's good. However, the Croatian public must know that this is an act and that this appointment by the president of the state of HDZ agrees solely because, literally, ambassadors, consuls, viceconsuls and various consular offices could be appointed tomorrow. He'll get his apron or part of the cake and the SDPs. Well, here I think we will soon have Vesna Pusic and Mr. Klisovic, Davor Ivo Stier, Mir Kovac, as future ambassadors.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62211	Thank you. Here you go, fellow Zurovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62212	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the Focus Club and the independent MPs, I am looking for a break in order to, of course, consult further on this extremely important point. I think it's a good shift after three months of tape that we finally have a common sense name for a man who has really sided with damaged citizens in past crises and situations. But what should be pointed out to all of us and to the entire Croatian public is that we are, by the head, the country with the most judges in the EU, and on the other hand, our judiciary is far behind some dictatorships and all the rankings behind dictatorships and some African countries that really do not have an independent judiciary. The Supreme Court has so far not pointed out, has not exactly sided with our citizens, and I hope that we will finally have a good shift in that direction. On the other hand, we have to ask ourselves what we're doing within this assembly, what we've been doing for three months is one ribbon around the election of the Supreme Judge, and on the other hand we have a year's work of our secretary-in-chief who's practically working on black for the council. We don't respect the Rules of Procedure, and we expect the laws and the rest to be respected. We're in the so-called. The racket of the state, you forget or don't pay one day one bill, you get warnings, you get executions, and on the other hand we act comfortable. We won't name a man for a year who has to help us with the administrative side, we don't name the Supreme Judge, we're the ones who act irresponsiblely. I hope that this election will finally make us start acting responsibly towards the citizens who chose us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62213	Now it's my friend Bencic's turn, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62214	Thank you. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Green-Left bloc club to actually point out once again that over the past few months we've detected and I think we've had a consensus about it except perhaps with HDZ that the key problem of the judiciary is the fact that it's been alienated and closed from public criticism, that with professional and interesting closure that judicial structures avoid facing critical positions, and that the justification for that is found in the division of the branches of the government. This division of branches is understood as absolute and absolute division rather than understanding that it's actually about mutual balancing and supervision. Fate independence today is interpreted as the basis for rejecting any external criticism and it is not good. This we had the opportunity to see in the fact that neither candidate Zlata Djurdjevic nor the candidate we are going to talk about today and who will be elected Supreme Court President, were able to obtain a more significant number, more significant support from the Supreme Court itself, or the Supreme Court judges. When their opinion was requested, it was actually what is most said, which is that the Supreme Court is closed within itself and that it actually avoids any kind of external influence or even at the level of the arrival of the President of the Supreme Court who is not from their structures. We believe that the key task of the new Supreme Court President is to change such perception, change such behaviour, open up to the public and raise citizens' confidence in the entire judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62215	Now, a co-worker, Mr. Dark Taritash, will explain the pause. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62216	Thank you very much, esteemed president of HS. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Do any of you sitting here think that the situation in the judiciary is good, no matter what they say from the pay phone, do you personally think that the situation in the judiciary is good? Do you think it's a condition that shouldn't be changed? I'm sure you don't think so, but just as you think intimately or whatever our citizens think, they think the companies they want or are about to invest, but what's also true are our judges thinking. When you do certain interrogations between our judges and you ask them if they think they're progressing in the judiciary by their ability or by other things, then 55% of the respondents and judges say that judges are not progressing according to their abilities and other things but rather by what they shouldn't be a criterion. And then we have the choice of the Supreme Judge of the Republic of Croatia or the President or the President and we, all of us politics turn it into a circus, turn into a farce of ready candidates who have decided to report for months through the mud and then we have the result that we have. So none of us believe that the new Supreme Court president and that he has a magic wand that will change everything, but you have in the development of a country, we're a young democracy of several key points that when you miss out, you've missed the time. This was one of those points to show that we are really ready to make a choice of president or Supreme Court president because I refer to the first candidate, a democratic process that was supposed to be a festival of democracy, and we have turned it into something completely different.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62217	Now, if you'll excuse my colleague Katičić for a moment, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62218	I thank the esteemed speaker of the assembly. The HDZ Club is also seeking a 10-minute break to further consult and check all allegations concerning this point in question, which is the election of the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. As has already been said in the opening statement, one forgets that the HDZ itself has more than clearly insisted on respecting all constitutional and legislative procedures which has been confirmed by the Constitutional Court itself in the procedure initiated before it. This only further shows that respect for the procedure in selecting such bodies is also the very functions of the Supreme Court president who will certainly not be the key role alone for judicial reform, but points out that we must respect the rules that we have voted for ourselves, which we alone have brought. As far as the reform plan of the judiciary is concerned, I would like to remind you that the national law provides for a substantial amount of funding of as much as 730 million kunas in order to speed up the processes in the judiciary that I myself have participated in and to improve the judiciary itself both in digitisation and further action. The main problem is the length of the procedure, and I think that we will also contribute to the administration by this act which will now be, and today, the choice of the President is on the agenda of the Court's summit and that judicial reform is carried out in that right to the benefit of Croatian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62219	And another request, colleague Daus, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62220	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On behalf of the IDS Club, we're also looking for a 10-minute break without extending this period for months but to warn that these things don't happen again. The confidence or mistrust of the judiciary is one of the three reasons why young people emigrate from the Republic of Croatia among all EU citizens, Croatian citizens have the worst view of the independence of the judiciary in their country following the Eurobarometer survey. That is why we are calling for us to show, on a subject like this in the future, all of us together more common, to begin to regain confidence in the institutions of our country as soon as possible. We face many challenges in the near and future, let us focus on what is important, let us be more responsible, more effective, and that these things are no longer repeated on such important topics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62221	Thank you, too. Comrade Nadj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62222	Thank you very much. I'm also asking for a break on behalf of the Social Democrats Club for 10 minutes to agree on this item of the agenda, so elect a Supreme Court president. So for months we've been discussing the election of the President or the President of the Supreme Court, and we've been through the mud by a very high-quality candidate, Zlata Djurdjevic, because the two presidents have not agreed. So, it's kind of a store thing, I'm gonna support your candidate those candidates, and you're gonna support my candidates or candidates for ambassadors. So we believe that this must never happen again and that we need candidates proposed by the President of the Republic to adequately verify or see their programmes and then decide on the best candidate. Candidate Radovan Dobronic is also a very high-quality candidate, he entered deep into an analysis of the problems in the judiciary as one Dr. House and we think he's a very high-quality candidate for the Supreme Court president, but we hope he doesn't have any trouble planting the kalie to the Supreme Court itself and in the entire judiciary. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62223	We now have another request for a break, colleague Bartulica, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62224	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm looking for the same break on behalf of the Homeland Movement Club to consult on this point. I would agree with some of the thesis that has been put forward to watch a strip for several months now and that this is not how trust can be restored to key institutions. We agree here, however, that what we are going to discuss today should nevertheless be highlighted and repeated, therefore, this thesis often heard in the public that during the 1990s problems in the Croatian judiciary are not true. So we inherit big problems from before, from much earlier, so these real causes of this mess come from the time before the '90s. So in order to start treating a patient called the Croatian judiciary, we need to have a real diagnosis. That's very important. A colleague mentioned Judge Dobronic as Dr. House. Dr. Crescent. House first needs to make a real diagnosis to treat the patient well. Mr. Dobrinić did not recognize it as the main problem or one of the key problems of not implementing the lustration in Croatia. Even in some way at the hearing, he said that lustration was carried out in Croatia. The very composition of the Supreme Court confirms that this thesis cannot be correct, so when we look at the biographies of the judges there. Therefore, we need to talk clearly about the real causes, in order to go into something that would seem like a reform in the judiciary at all. Surely one person cannot handle this on his own, but if he is the Supreme Court's head, he must know what it is and how we got to this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62225	Thank you. Be not, of course, approved breaks at all costs. We will continue at 11 o'clock and 15 minutes and will be contacted by Committee President Jaksic, who will explain the Committee's position, after which we will open the debate. At 11:15 p.m. It's 10.58 o'clock. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 11:15 A.M.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62227	Dear President of the Assembly, thank you for your word. Dear colleagues, my fellow Justice Committee has held several sessions in several of these public calls precisely on the Supreme Court and what is the taste of the last session at which we had the vote that Mr. Dobrinic received unanimous support and a positive opinion from the Justice Committee while Mr. Mrcela received a positive opinion by majority of votes. Today, in front of us and at Friday's vote, Radovan Dobranic is named as the proposal by the president of the Republic of Croatia, Zoran Milanovic. What I would just like to emphasise in this brief introduction is that this way, regardless of our political considerations, thanks to all our colleagues and colleagues from the Justice Committee, all those other parliamentary deputies and MPs who got involved in the debate, given that we really had one correct, concise, reasoned debate and showed that no matter how politically we share that we can find a clear thread and that we can finally find a consensus. I hope that this consensus we have found and in the coming period we will use for the necessary changes in the Croatian judiciary because it is not one person who can change all of this and that in one open, clear and transparent way as we have discussed on the board we can also launch and need the legislative changes that this procedure has shown us that obviously in the time ahead, especially when we are talking about the Law on Courts, will be necessary. Thanks again to everyone who participated.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62228	Thank you, too. I'm opening a debate, and it's the first turn of the Most Representatives' Club, dear colleague Bozo Petrov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62229	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, I am pleased that we will finally finish this Friday's empty ribbon that is happening in our country for an important choice, the election of the Supreme Court president, but it's not worth it because the tape and the bar and the impertinence came out of focus what's important. And what matters is what our judiciary is in, it's what needs to be changed in that judiciary. In other words, it is important that each of the candidates who have applied for this Supreme Court president offers. And in this time, you could hear about different candidates, especially candidates Radovan Dobronic, a lot of things. They may have been even a little milder to some than to some other candidates, but unfortunately, there was not so much talk about what that candidate was saying through his programme that he was going to do. Not even if it wasn't said, you could see that certain experts from a colossal anonymity, such underestimatingly speaking about his programme, also talking about his work so far, say that his programme is a little too individual, not enough complete, and that his experience of years in the first degree Trade Court is not enough for this highest judicial duty. Of course, after hearing comments like this, the public should be able to develop a skepticism for that particular candidate. And it could have lasted until his hearing at the Justice Committee, because the hearing and his patient answer to all the questions of the members of the Justice Committee turned into one right lecture between an experienced lawyer and an intellectual from which everyone could learn. And the members of the Justice Committee and the Assembly's representatives and all those who wanted to hear. The programme, first of all, to refer to Judge Dobrinić in full to his hearing and his answers to the Justice Committee, points to numerous anomalies in the Croatian judiciary, in the legislative framework that we have, in the conduct of state and public bodies. And he very critically spoke to state and local authorities that needlessly generate 1,000 disputes, which ensued courts. He was also critical of certain legal solutions that relate most to what is painful in our judiciary, it is to the organisation of the work of the judiciary itself. Also, I was pleased that he was critical of his own, his colleagues, and the conduct of the courts and judges, which, unlike many, was one of those rare representatives of the judicial authority who had self-critically talked about what is happening today. He made it clear that due to the wrong practice of courts and judges today in Croatia, we have a harder opportunity to introduce what he says is legal order in the legal order. Of all the things that were more impressive were his observations, which I honestly felt as a legal layman was undeniable to have nothing to think about. So Judge Dobrinić said that because of the wrong case law largely abuses those things that should be undeniable. For example. He had an exhibit on the Justice Committee about the most ordinary accounts, so that's what his colleagues told him was too individual, not complete. No, it's extremely important, about the most ordinary accounts, about their release, about their collection, about their dispute. Why? Because because of the mispractice of courts and judges today, fully legally normally issued accounts are challenged, and this is the case with the courts, and it generates tens of thousands of unnecessary disputes. It's very important. Judge Dobrinić also notes in his programme that there is a continued concept of rights and justice as another tool in the hands of the ruling class. And as a negative consequence of that, Judge Dobrinić points out the formalist and above all the legal mechanical application of legal norms without more significant application of the general principles which are also laid down in the law and does not say that such implementation should be avoided and that it should be extended according to general principles, but also considers that both should be taken into account. My colleagues and fellow MPs, none of what Judge Dobrinic was talking about were any of the ephemeral topics. I think these are topics that show where our judiciary's systemic problems, policies concerning our judiciary are, and most importantly, most of the topics he's been talking about are problems that the Supreme Court can greatly influence with its practice and its authority. Radovan Dobronic, among other things, said that proper court practice in some types of cases of new civil litigation can be reduced by 30%. We expect from him and from the Supreme Court whom he will lead to fulfill it. That's very quantifiable. The Supreme Court's report is in HS every year. After all, this means that we in the assembly will be able to measure what the Supreme Court is doing as the President of the Supreme Court. Perhaps that is why he will support Judge Dobronic's election as Supreme Court President. But this, as you can see, isn't Bianca's support in four years. I don't want to. No, it's support to carry out what he's been saying he can be done and he'll make it president of the Supreme Court, and we'll measure it here in HS every year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62230	We're going to the 2nd debate, SDSS Representatives' Club, dear colleague Milorad Pupovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62231	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I would say, finally, after several months of stalling over whether we will have or will not have and who we will have for the candidate or candidate for the president or president of the Supreme Court, we have finally come up with a way that is prescribed by law on how to elect the President of the Supreme Court and that this law is respected and that we have got a candidate from which we can choose. And each of the participants, in accordance with this procedure, contributed to the fact that we can discuss candidates among the best we have in the judiciary. And that's good. All that preceded it was not good, there was a waste of time and there was some kind of populist exercise and competition that was not good for what it wanted with the election of the Supreme Court president, so not only the choice of a person but also the choice of someone who would bring freshness into ideas, in procedures and in their own personality when it comes to the necessary reform of the judiciary in Croatia which, I say immediately, can be made from the position of the Supreme Court, but not in that sense and the extent that some people think is possible. So, of the two candidates, candidate Radovan Dobronic received the most votes on our home Board of Justice. And I am not surprised that his programme is, if he is read not only by those who have run for this round but also by earlier circles, in fact, the best programme, aimed at what from the perspective of the Supreme Court president and the Supreme Court itself can be done on the one hand, and on the other hand in this programme is shown for someone who has not progressed despite decades of work experience in his court profession and in his judicial call who has not advanced exceptional knowledge and exceptional guidance in the state of domestic justice, the number of cases, the kind of practice of court, the difficulties judges face, on the other hand, the exceptional knowledge of international comparative, judicial practices, judicial solutions and the overall legislative framework, particularly of the EU legislative framework. That's why I think we have a relatively simple job today, which is to choose candidate Radovan Dobronic as Supreme Court President. Now, on what candidate Dobronic puts an emphasis on, I will draw some out of the whole of his program. First, what seems extremely relevant to me is that you are conscious of what is the place of European directives in the system and European judgments in our justice system. He says in one place, they are such as to allow our judges to have a higher position, a stronger position, given the difference between our judiciary and European justice than they do when they judge by our laws. So, as he says, I quote it does not literally have powers that are comparable to the powers of constitutional judges. It is extremely important to make this known in the case law and in the minds of our judges and, if necessary, to implement adequate educational practices. The other thing that seems extremely important to me is access to a matter of accumulated cases, number of pending cases, number of cases that come to the Supreme Court, number of cases that are resolved in the Supreme Court and how they are dealt with in the Supreme Court. His comparison between the Danish Supreme Court and our Supreme Court where our judges solve 9,000 cases, and the Danish solve only a few dozen cases. Danish courts are among the best in Europe, and ours are among the worst in Europe. He made excellent use of it as an example and served even better as an explanation, that judges should not work under the pressure of a number of norms because it violates the seriousness of access, the professionality of access, and therefore suggests that the Supreme Court should not come, to create mechanisms in the work of courts, that no more than 10% of what is coming today at the level of the year to ensure quality. Similarly, it seems to me that his insistence on credibility is a judgment of extreme importance that we have no respect for anything, that no one's word is worth anything but daily fliers, entertainers, that I speak only in the female race because it would be unfair or rickety and someone else for the purposes of these or those media diets, so it is not worth the words of our courts and our judges. The candidate Dobrinić puts it in the centre of his program, how to restore authority, credibility and strength because that is exactly what it is, such as going to the mother and church and agreeing to marriage something that has power and commitment, and the verdict of judges of the same force must be, but it is not with us, it is now like the snow of Lanan. Judge Dobrinić considers it a candidate for Supreme Court President Dobrovic to be one of the central elements in his programme and I take off his hat that I do not have, but I take off his hat on it. What will he do in the Supreme Court who has not given him confidence but has given another candidate who is not a candidate for undervalued, has his reputation? But that kind of vote unfortunately shows confirmation that our system in some segments is hermetically closed, not open. That's what I'm going to get these hermetically incarcerated when we discuss the director of HRT. We have to avoid that. Closed circles whose incarceration does not require professional ethics in public and important functions are dangerous circles and should be dealt with. Secret circles which are not prescribed by law and which are not the form of work given by the legislator to certain actors, services, agencies are also dangerous to the law and dangerous to the state. So, I'm going to end up with this on behalf of the SDSS Club that I believe that by selecting candidate Radovan Dobronic we will take an important step towards restoring confidence in the possibility of reforming our judiciary, but it won't be enough Unless we return to the conclusions we adopted when we voted for some solutions or decisions [[Thank you very much.]] about earlier candidacys. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62232	Thank you, time. Thank you very much, thank you, thank you for understanding. Mr. Miroslav Škoro, vice president of the Parliament in front of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62233	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Croatian state television was famous in that former country for series such as Little Misto, Velo So, Gruntovci, In Registration, Prosecutions and Sons, Where do wild pigs go, say, is it? It wasn't these modern soap operas that usually entangled in someone's defense of love, then one of the actors ends up in a hospital coma, and then you're shaking and then 50 episodes and eventually you find out that the main character is mom. So, with those drama shows of ours, they were dreaming, laughing, crying, laughing, talking about them, and actresses and actors were famous people at the center of all the events. This level of attention in our new independent state has been taken over by politicians. Even though everything seems funny sometimes, it's a little bit more sad and crying because it's not easy to watch these kids go into the world, how they get to your home address, when for months almost, here soon and years, that after the earthquake, no one can restore you down, but it's long and long written about fund managers, about big money from Europe that's basically like Yeti because it's supposed to exist, but nobody's ever seen them before. While the political stage is being played with ribbons and soaps, I think the word strip will be the most used in this discussion, according to EU Commission and EU Council reports, the Croatian judiciary holds the sixth place among EU members on the inflow of cases. We hold an excellent 5th place in the long term of litigation proceedings in front of municipal and commercial courts, and according to the number of pending litigation cases, Croatia is in phenomenal 2nd place of the EU. These EU and Council data, the EU Commission and the Council of the EU refer to the situation with the final 2018, but the resolution rate in 2019 was lower, so I believe that even in some positions we have progressed, in a negative sense. And instead of making every effort to help the judiciary become truly independent and effective, we make it more difficult and difficult. The party along with soap opera selection of the president of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia has been completely unnecessary for months. Talk, negotiate, break spears, propose and reject, and in fact the election of the Supreme Court president will not make much difference or change, except that the Supreme Court, as is the order, will win the president. Still people will move out, roofs leak, houses will stay ruined, prices will rise, inflation will come from crawling in the walking, maybe today-to-morrow and in the running, and Asian workers who are even poorer than us will come in hundreds, soon and in thousands and do all those jobs that we no longer have who do. What does the plot of the soap opera election of the Supreme Court president look like? He's named this House of the High on a proposal from the President of the Republic, but that's not all. Therefore, since 2001, in Croatia, the President of the VSRH, with prior opinion of the General Session of the VSRH and the Competent Committee of the HS, shall, on a proposal from the President of the Republic of chooses and resolve the HS. However, in 2018, the Court Act stipulates that the election procedure of the VSRH President should be initiated by the publication of a public call in the National Journal and on its website, and contains an invitation for candidates to submit, within a period of not less than 15 days or longer than 30 days, an application to the DSV which then submits the same application to the Office of the President, who then requests an opinion on candidates from the General Session of the VSRH and the competent board of HS. When he gets that opinion, then the Croatian president sends his proposal to us in Parliament and we, today, are discussing it. So it's one procedure that needs to be passed to get to this situation. The second question, what does the president in question do and what is his description of the work assignments. I'm also a little "muffled" because I'm not a lawyer. He represents the VSRH and the Fate Authority. It shall carry out the tasks of the judicial administration and other affairs, such as the management of the VSRH, the coordination of the work of the judicial departments and other bodies in that court, the convocation and chairmanship of the General Session of the VSRH and the General Assembly and the General Assembly and the Management of the Judicial Administration. In addition, the President is responsible for the proper and legal conduct of affairs in court and judicial administration. It shall also adopt administrative and other acts, issue orders and give instructions, sign decisions, conclusions, reports and other acts adopted by the General Session. It oversees the work of the Director of the Judicial Administration of VSRH and financial and material business and procurement. It follows that the role of the president of the VSRH is primarily representative-administrative. It does not have a special and direct impact on the trial process or on the content of the operation of the VSRH and on the exercise of its Constitution of the prescribed jurisdiction, and I have already said that its appointment will not stimulate the change in the difficult economic and demographic situation in which our country is located. In spite of all this, we appoint the ruling majority to appoint the President of the Supreme Court, while, for example, the Constitutional Court elects by a secret vote of the President, so its President of the Constitutional Court, at the time of 4 years, to the majority of the votes of all judges. And here, to end this speech, so someone will use today's debate to point out problems in the judiciary, someone to personally promote or collect political points, and in the end, as usual, the ruling majority in this legislative body, and we are politicians, yes, the legislative body, we will appoint the President to the Supreme Court, which is part of the independent judicial component of the government's trio. That's what we're gonna do. We will, of course, support Mr Radovan Dobrinić's choice at the Club of Croatian Sovereigns as well as most of them, and we want him to justify the voice that follows him and that stems from his last name, voice and epithet of a good judge. Although I must say that in the end, the best solution would be to determine which President of the Supreme Court is elected by judges of the Supreme Court at a general session of the court. Courts which may be executed by the judicial authority if they are independent in their work do not need tutors outside the judicial system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62234	You, too. Now it's Mr. Stephen Nikola Bartultz who will speak in front of the House of Homeland Movement's Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62235	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, he would agree in the beginning that this is taking too long to proceed with the procedure for the appointment of a new Supreme Court president. Here's what's going to end very soon on Friday, but it's very important to rediscover some things so that our public understand how we see the main causes of this judicial mess with us. We often hear in public the thesis that problems in our judiciary have arisen during the 1990s. The truth is, those main patterns of this condition come from a time before. And as we know, many other former communist countries have spent timely lustration and the situation is somewhat better there than with us. Trust is still more and more difficult to get the impression that simply this topic continues to cause discomfort in Croatia. One symptomatic, one case that actually reflects how long it took to change the name of a square in Zagreb and the huge controversy that this decision caused. So it's about one inherited mentality that's hard to eradicate. So social order has changed, but mentality has changed more slowly in particular in some services. Why am I saying that? At the hearing in, at our Justice Committee, I asked Mr. Dobronic how he could actually see what his diagnosis was for this situation. It's very important to get a real diagnosis. In his favour, I can say that he spoke about the fact that in other countries where laws are very similar to ours, so he mentioned Austria, Switzerland, other countries have almost the same laws, but the practice far outweighs the question of why. Why does everything go slower with us, why do citizens have no confidence in the judgments of courts, courts and so forth? So, what should be said regardless of our final position Mr. Dobrinić has insight into the judiciary and some points of his programme stand and are good, but it is very important to stress that it is not enough, it is not enough to be fair and not part of a closed court caste that we may be able to lead the Supreme Court. Honesty should be taken for granted, all judges should actually be honest, it shouldn't be some special qualification, but in Croatia so often it turns out that if you are unsullied, fair then it points out to you in relation to many others, unfortunately. So that should be some starting point, some minimum for all candidates who would lead and even the Supreme Court. What are all the consequences of not implementing what was supposed to be done in the '90s? I'm not going in there for why it didn't happen, but there's a lot of consequences. One is what economists call opportunity spending. So we will never know in Croatia how much investment has passed Croatia because of mistrust in our judiciary. And unfortunately, I have to say that this mistrust is largely and justifiable. How much investment has gone to other countries in the environment or beyond because these investors did not trust the rule of law with us. So, this cost is extremely high for Croatia when we watch where we are today compared to many other countries. On the other hand, we have a thesis from another candidate of Judge Mrchel who is not on the agenda, but was in front of the board that actually judges should choose themselves as one closed society, an elite society, would say a very alienated society of reality in Croatia, they should choose themselves. Well, I think we have this big problem that many people don't really understand the principle of government triage. So our politicians also tend to raise their hands often from the situation in the judiciary and keep repeating that fleet of independence of the judiciary. So the courts that we understand should be independent of the direct influence on their work, so as a special branch of government. However, this does not mean that politics does not play a role, especially in the decision-making that will be the leaders of the system. So we have to say that every branch of government must necessarily have control mechanisms to monitor and control the other branches. So it is certainly unacceptable for us that judges who have no high reputation in society choose themselves, only the situation will get worse if we go that way. So, from what we've been looking at these past months, what I can say is positive that everything is going very publicly, yet the public finds out something about individual candidates unlike before when it's kind of agreed between political factors and no one actually knows the real background or the views of individual judges. Why does it matter? We know that DSV is actually the body that decides on the appointment of judges and their advancement. And in that council, we have 11 members of seven judges. I'll read their names because in the general public they're unknown. Therefore, if a judge is arrested or suspected of corruption, the question should be asked who appointed the judge or decided on his progress. These are often anonymous people with us, no one knows. So in the current composition we have Neven Cambi, Antun Dominko, Goran Goluža, Gordana Jalševečki, Mirta Matić, Darko Milkovic, Lidija Vidjak. So, I don't know these people personally, but we know that the general public, so we in this assembly, at least I, we don't know anything about their views actually as they see the rule of law, this is a controversial question. We know at EU and individual level that big battles are being fought over the situation in the judiciary and the role, the role, and even the higher courts in those countries. So it doesn't matter how people look at you, whether they have a subjective mentality that everything needs to be followed more or less blindly from the outside or think in some way with their own head and are able to contradict some authorities outside of Croatia, it's not that it doesn't matter, we need to know that. So again, what will probably never happen in Croatia, but it should have happened, so the implementation of lustration in some parts of the system has never been the goal of getting revenge for the crimes committed or in some way punishing those people, but the lustration is actually needed to cleanse Croatian society from a certain mentality that leads to ruin. The mentality of corruption and subsistence drives our society into a growing economic and moral crisis. So, the Homeland Movement does not see the problem in Judge Dobrinić's person and what he listed in the programme, but in his misdiagnosion, in an important diagnosis, about the causes of the riots in the Croatian judiciary, so we will not be able to support his appointment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62236	Thank you, too. - Mrs. Crescent. Natalija Martincevic will speak in front of the club of representatives of HSLS and Reformists, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62237	... months and months of tension gathered in HS to discuss the motion for a decision on the election of the Supreme Court president. [[Last-on speaker]] Unfortunately, as long as this tension lasted, nothing in our judiciary has changed for the better. The EU, today we have had the opportunity to hear them, not to repeat them, and the exact data, as well as the citizens of Croatia themselves, continue to perceive Croatia as a country subject to corruption and justice in the system as protectors and the same corruption. Many indicators suggest it is systemic corruption, corruption that pervades local self-government, public companies, state institutions, and systemic corruption is the corruption that destroys the state. The corruption is then mildly related to the ineffectiveness of the judiciary in the process of exposed corruption, and highlighted when it comes to criminal persecution of state officials. The processes which the public particularly monitors and through which the judiciary estimates, but also the overall state of society related to the fight against corruption, lasts for us for 10 years and more. And this is exactly the kind of long-term justice process that gives the message that politically influential defendants can suddenly get away with the fines they deserve. The example of such is, of course, infinite in Croatia. I will only remind once again of how I came from Varazdin, an example of the city of Varazdin where we had the defendant now already mayor of Mr. Chehok, who was charged with four counts of damage to the city of Varazdin in the amount of more than 100 million kuna. So, 8 years old. a first-degree procedure, after 8 years. 2018 He was wrongly sentenced to a 2nd-year prison sentence. And after that, nothing happened again until this year, and then she saw wonders right before the local elections, so in April of the month, the Supreme Court was after 3 years, so she decided to return the case to the first-degree court, and so little more so that the wind in the back for mayor Chehok's candidacy, fortunately this time did not pass. It passed in the previous term, and then someone who was charged with 100 million kunas of damage to the city of Varazdin for 4 years managed the city of Varazdin and decided on the cases and disputes that it was facing at the same time. So it is clear to everyone that this is the length of the process, especially those involving corruption and public officials, is one of the main sources of citizens' mistrust in the Croatian judiciary. And now, of course, this acceleration of procedures can be achieved through a variety of systemic and comprehensive changes, reforms we keep talking about, which we are constantly calling for, but it would be good to take an initial step, to make a quick and quality change, and to send a strong message to the public, but also to potential high-corruption perpetrators, who are firstly sucking out public money, to ensure the appropriate speed of the trial immediately. As reformists, we propose that in the first phase this appropriate speed of trial be for the socially most dangerous acts. Therefore, these are acts of the jurisdiction of the USKOK, which are being prosecuted primarily by state officials, judges, state lawyers, their deputies, and the presidents and members of the administration of public companies and companies owned by local self-government. It is a category of people who have public money and have various privileges as we know it, and it would be good to add to those privileges the privilege of a quick trial. This is extremely important, so these are people who have public authority and who manage public money and that these trials are completed within an appropriate period, not that we have examples like I mentioned earlier. So, if this debate today weren't just a debate about how our judiciary didn't work, we all know it didn't work, how wrong, how this process of appointing the Supreme Court president lasted needlessly long, everyone was talking about it, and everyone's gonna keep talking, I might say a few, use this debate to make a few constructive proposals, and based on what I was talking about. We must therefore change the existing system and first of all change the existing Penal Code. According to our proposal, amendments and additions to the Penal Code should be made to which, first of all, what I was saying would be accelerated by the processes of the USKOK's domain of jurisdiction for the persons I cited, regardless of whether they resigned in the meantime or were called off. Another extremely important thing that would introduce amendments to the law is the obligation for a second-degree court to take the file for appeal in such a criminal case to make a decision within a year of the receipt of the file. So within a year. And the third thing is that in such criminal cases a first-degree decision on the grounds of appeal could be lifted and the case returned to re-treatment only once. It is interesting that this is done in civil proceedings, but it is not regulated in criminal proceedings, and I am sure that there is no one but of course interested people who does not realize that in this way, that this in criminal proceedings would be arranged, as well as in civil proceedings, in fact prevent the infinite expansion of the process by the multiple return of second-degree rulings to first-degree, second-degree courts to first-degree courts and most of all without a clear explanation to refer first-degree courts to the proceedings, of course with the aim of returning the decision once more and so infinitely while it is going, and we know that in most of these very proceedings to these persons that I am talking about. Therefore, the second-degree court can abolish the verdict only once, after which it must be next time or must resolve it itself, so take the case and make a decision. This amended and complemented Penal Code would also refer to the procedures that started before the entry into force of this law that are not legally completed, and so believe me, we would clear up a serious part of this, this swamp process that has been going on for years now, and we have been talking here for decades. And I really expect that at the most recent time in this place, we will discuss amendments to the Penal Code and try at least with this step that is not a systematic reform, but it is an important step that can make a strong contribution to seeing some changes right away. Unfortunately, as I have already said, the election of the President of the Supreme Court has lasted for months, and it has also fit into the way our judiciary works and, of course, it is not a good message. On the other hand, it is clear to all of us that the change at the head of the Supreme Court is not a reform of the judiciary, but it is of great and important importance and it is an important start that points to the direction in which the reform of our judiciary should go. Because when a certain number of people are once rooted and such a system is set up, then a small number of people like, this is the case today in key places can control the processes and play everything that seems convenient to them, which suits them, and that actually led to the decay in our justice system that we are witnessing today. Not today, actually, but decades. That is why we, as reformists throughout the process, did not want to even consider supporting anyone from the Supreme Court for a new president. It is our clear attitude from the beginning that a person who has an attitude and wants a change should be appointed at the head of the Supreme Court. And that is why it has been completely unacceptable for us to have the Supreme Court's view that they and only those who are only good enough to choose a president among themselves. This attitude is mildly spoken and shamefully and underestimatingly towards all citizens, and of course it has nothing to do with the profession because of course it does not constitute the profession of the judiciary in Croatia. So the legal profession in Croatia is a much wider term. So anyone who has a speck of reason is clear that there are high-quality judges and lawyers outside this profession so that once again, it would point out that what the Supreme Court has played by proposing between themselves candidates is totally unacceptable and truly underestimating to everyone. We do not underestimate the quality of Judge Mrcelle here, nor are we discussing him, but simple support and general consideration of supporting his candidacy throughout this context that I have now explained was totally unacceptable. We believe that it is good to go to a solution with Judge Dobrinić, who is according to what we know and what we have witnessed by an honest judge with clear views, which is extremely important and its great plus that it is not part of this rooted structure and that system, is located outside these games, is not networked and is a basic prerequisite for the launch of reforms. For all the above, we will support Judge Dobronic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62238	Thank you, too. Mr. Peja Grbin will speak in front of the Club of Representatives of the SDP. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62239	Dear colleagues and colleagues. One simply wonders whether it is necessary to speak at all about the fact that the situation in the Croatian judiciary is bad, we all know that, especially that large number of our citizens and citizens who have had the accident to end up in court for this reason or for that reason. And these men wait, and wait, and wait, and righteousness does not come. We who studied law a long time ago learned a Latin proverb that in translation means “Who gives double, ” our judiciary apparently forgot about it. And I don't know about that saying, I can't even finish my first year of law school, but somehow from the moment you become a judge and take an oath, it's obvious some basic professions have forgotten. And that is why it is our obligation to try to do something to improve this situation at least a little bit, and that is why it is an extremely dangerous thesis that we have heard from some of our colleagues today that the President of the Supreme Court does not have any serious authority but is only about the administrator. Listen to some powers of the President of the Supreme Court that were not spoken of, one sets out the judge's authority to issue orders for the implementation of the measures of secret data collection. Is there anyone who thinks that it doesn't matter who makes it possible for the authorities to comply with the Security Intelligence System Act? I think it is crucial, on the one hand, to secure democratic processes in the state, on the other hand, to ensure that there will be completely impartial people in these places, completely honest people who will not allow data leaks and that measures are carried out over those over whom it is necessary, whether criminals, terrorists or anyone else who threatens the security of this country. It is a very concrete, very specific authority of the Supreme Court President, but also the President of the Supreme Court is with the Minister of Justice who doesn't want to, he doesn't know, he won't, I don't know what word to use to do, the President of the Supreme Court is the only one who's authorized to press charges against every judge in every court in the Republic of Croatia, so on and on when his superior judge doesn't want it, the President of the Court. It is an extremely important authority because it will allow those who do not do their job or who are irresponsiblely doing their job to initiate procedures and to remove such persons from judicial duty, which is absolutely necessary for Croatia because many who do not do their job for collegiate or non-collegiate reasons look through their fingers and allow them to hold some items in drawers for years. These are the facts of colleagues and colleagues, and the President of the Supreme Court has the tools to determine which judges are involved and to initiate proceedings against them. The President of the Supreme Court has the power to appoint leaders of the Centre of Judicial Practices, has a direct influence on the fact that the case law in Croatia is codified and that we finally ensure that whoever seeks justice in Osijek, Pula, Rijeka, Zagreb, Varazdin, Dubrovnik or Split gets the same justice, not that Croatia is fragmented and that you have the happiness or misfortune to seek justice that they will not give to you, although other judges in the context of justice in such situations give. And then you have to wait, get to the Supreme Court, unless by some law you're denied it, and you're wondering if you're finally going to get justice or not. Now, that's extremely important and it's not just the bureaucratic role of the Supreme Court president. And not to forget, according to the position of the Supreme Court president, the president of the DIP is also concerned about the legal conduct of the elections in the Republic of Croatia. Dear colleagues and colleagues, these are not bureaucratic powers, these are concrete wet powers and it is therefore important that Croatia has a Supreme Court president, but it is also important who this person will be. In the first procedure for the Supreme Court President, the President of the Republic proposed a fine lawyer, a colleague of Zlata Djurdjevic, who showed that she had the strength to fight with the windmills, that she had the strength to fight things that were not right in our judiciary. Unfortunately, HDZ prevented her choice. However, the President of the Republic has now proposed a good candidate, suggested Judge Dobrinić, who showed something that should be the features of every lawyer, especially every judge, which is the expertise and courage, human courage, professional courage and integrity to apply their knowledge in a specific case in a proper manner, which means to judge for the benefit of the citizens of the damaged, disproved at the expense of those who damaged them, regardless of how many large billions and controls of the media process these rich in a specific case banks have. What Judge Dobrinić did in the case of the Swiss franc is a way in which the Croatian judiciary should act, act, and it is an example of good practice, unfortunately one of the few, but it is an example of good practice and an indication that even in Croatia can be done when we have the right people in the right place and who recognize the moment and their knowledge are willing to invest that this moment does not pass. Judge Dobrinić therefore has our support to become the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. However, as we have spoken several times and as we have today had the opportunity to hear, of course, that the choice of Supreme Court President is not enough and cannot ensure the necessary changes needed in the Croatian judiciary, but there are who can, and these are the Government of the Republic of Croatia as a legislator and HS as the legislator of the law in this country, a law that should ensure that judicial proceedings, but also the conduct of judges are consistent with what we want to be our goal, which is a better judiciary for the benefit of citizens. One of the concrete measures we certainly need are more frequent security checks on judges. The situation of those so-called. Mamic's judges would not have happened and we wouldn't need Mr. Mamic from BiH to react that these security checks existed because one group of people's wealth would have been noticed in time, but these security checks did not exist and therefore they need to be introduced. It is also necessary to introduce all decisions of all courts. Do you remember the situation on one of our islands, on the island of Brac, how a judge was judging her fellow countrymen? If these decisions had been made public in a searchful form, people might have seen and reacted in time, and the grandfathership of many would have been saved. But this is only one example, it happens elsewhere in Croatia. We need specialization in individual courts, but not any specialization, not just to set up a department to be his leader, to praise him for being the judge of the specialized department. No, we need a specialization that will be followed by the education of judges to know how to judge family disputes, to know how to judge quickly, not to be influenced by any lobby, which is unfortunately happening in Croatia today. We need a specialization with education that will also not remain a dead letter on paper. And finally, we need concrete control of the property cards of the judicial officials, much more concrete than that which now exists, unfortunately only on paper, much more concrete, which will result in clear sanctions for those who cannot answer the question of the origin of their property. And sanctions in this case can only be one solution and a criminal procedure. These are the measures we ask the Government of the Republic of Croatia to introduce them as soon as possible, and if she does not, the time will come when someone will be able to do so. The Croatian judiciary demands a serious change, for this change the time has long passed, but whatever it is, we still have to carry it out and run. In the SDP, we call on her, and as far as Judge Dobronic is concerned, we believe that his choice is the first step in the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62240	Now it's Mrs. Devereaux's turn. Katarina Peovic in front of the Club of Representatives of the HSS and the Workers' Front, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62241	Good afternoon, everyone. First of all, let me say that, of course, we will support Judge Radovan Dobrnić unreservedly as the club of HSS and RF. I certainly believe and agree with what is said here to be an important decision, but I would step out of this narrow framework of debate that is set up and partly, given that it is an intense situation which, in this first round, therefore, in this first episode of the election of the Supreme Court judge is resolved by all accounts, so, past some of the prophecies of some MPs in this first debate seems to have a candidate to be elected. Because of this slightly different debate that we have here, which we can say without any less, with a little less tension, looks at the very subject of the election of the Supreme Court judge, I will reflect on one dominant thesis that we are hearing here not only in this debate but in almost all discussions, the the thesis that the perception of corruption is the most important fact at the moment, how solving corruption should be the first task of any political option, that the key to solving all our problems is the choice of honest, professional and unsullied, and on the other hand, they are unprofessional, corrupt and unfair. So many times we see in the current political situation that such prophetic political ideas from black are turned into white, from white to black, so those who were unsuspecting overnight accuse them of being corrupt, who was honest became unfair, who was professional suddenly terribly unprofessional. And here in this debate we can say, you should pick judges who do your job, you should sanction judges who don't do their job. Well, colleagues and colleagues, it is Judge Dobrinić who has been sanctioned because of what is said here that the problem should be judged more quickly in a process that is not too meaningful from everything I've heard about the process. So what I'm trying to say is that the framework of these anti-corruption policies and the morality that is being dragged into these anti-corruption policies, which is some common denominator for all such policies, is very dangerous. And if we put the source of our problems in corruption, and the solution to anti-corruption policy, then we're going to get in trouble, we're actually getting in trouble. And those political options that they get on anti-corruption policies, political points, overnight, lose their support, and that's how we're in those cycles from a decade to a decade now I'd even say. My colleagues and colleagues, I don't know if you know the fact that China's perception index makes 15 places worse than Croatia. So one of the world's largest economies 15 places is worse than Croatia. That didn't stop her from getting 80 million people out of poverty. Do you remember, and I believe you remember that by the time Italy entered the Eurozone, it was one of the most corrupt countries in the world, one of the world's 7 richest countries, until the entry into the Eurozone in 2000, when Italian problems began, and Italy came to that category of defiled peaxes for countries. So when we remember Italy and the whole affair they called Mani pulta or Mani pulta action in the early '90s means clean hands, solving corruption scandals, it's all very familiar and we remember it. There is no way in the world to shorten the story of whether, no country that is with anti-corruption progressive policies that leads to a situation, an alleged situation that is suitable for investment, investors and which promises that progressive food development swing, has happened. Nowhere in the world has we any country that has led us to a better life for the majority by solving corruption. I'm not saying it's not important to choose an honest judge, but let's not make an elephant out of flies. Our much bigger problem is our position on the EU's periphery in the global division of work. Our capitalist sector is problematic, the capitalist sector has no power for any more serious economic growth. Anyone who wants to change something will have to get caught up in these capitalist relationships, and everything else, of course, is just a supplement. And that shows up in some of the political situations I'm following right now. If it fails to deal with production relations, it will be difficult to do something with clean hands, a policy of morality and a policy that claims that anti-corruption is the beginning and end of political action. Whoever is so brave to come to an opportunity to change something will face the escape of capital or the strike of capital and it will be problems that will be something different from those as Marx and Engels have said the petty reformist moves of all possible species. Such, as they would call bourgeois socialism, is being halted by these administrative improvements that change nothing therefore in some fundamental relations, but in the best case scenario reduces the cost of the rule of law of existing economic relations and simplifies state governance. That's why I'd like to say that in what we've heard here, it's a wet situation in the judiciary, reforming the word that's most often heard here in all possible debates, choosing people who have opinions, etc., it's all a moralization that won't take us too far, and a fellow from the right political spectrum said that it's annoying that this left center is almost identified with honesty and that the problem is that if it's talking about honesty, the morality to automatically think about the left, and then the right-wings are automatically broken, that they're not fair and that they're corrupt. Well, I would even tell my colleague that's the problem. I think it's the biggest problem that's really going to suit the right options at a time when the working majority is disappointed with policies and progressive, under quotes of the progressive left-hand center that won't be able to solve their problems just by those anti-corruption policies, and we know in history how such promises end so that a fellow from the right-wing political option I think should be thrilled that the honesty policy is being identified with the left because honesty policy is not a policy. Honesty policy is a moralization that reaches its limits very quickly, as soon as it takes power. So if we want to change something, I'd like to call on us to leave anti-corruption policies as key and basic policies without, of course, any desire to reduce a really good thing to choose the judges that most of us here have yet been designated and branded fair, uncompromising, professional. And those who choose those positions, I think we should welcome these qualifications and these kind of warnings because they will face that ceiling and ceiling themselves at a time when they do not deliver what is expected of them, when they are not what is expected of them, and when in fact what is happening in both political options and in court practice, then these same people are declared unfair, corrupt and unprofessional. That's the simplest thing. From honest, professional and unsuspecting, we turn them into unprofessional, incompetent and corrupt, and that solves our problem, but the working majority is not much better, so I think real change, means real change and real progress occur when we all come out of the framework of anti-corruption policies as the beginning and end of each policy, and we start looking a little wider than that and we don't stop there. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62242	Thank you, too. Just for the sake of precision, Mrs. Peovic, the manipulations took place completely in liras and only later was the euro introduced. Ms. Romana Nikolic, Social Democrats' Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62243	Thank you, Vice President of the Parliament. After seven months of public tape, the highest court in the state, the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia should be given a new president soon. Recently, we celebrated the independence of our country and, on the other hand, after 21 years of public perception, that there is no trust in the judicial system. If we look at how many times we've witnessed spectacular arrests and the arrests of USKOK in the small morning, and they've ended up in court ribbons, the processes that have been going on for years and ended up running across the border, it's no wonder our citizens don't trust or think anything's going to change any better. Also, we are not in favour of Eurobarometer research for 2021, that we are the most corrupt member state of the EU, and that we are at the beginning when it comes to the perception of the independence of courts and judges. According to Transparency International, the Republic of Croatia, apart from the exception for 2015, when the only time is classified among the unsuspected countries, the continuity of the country is becoming worse and worse in perception as a corrupt country. It is clear that corruption cannot be measured but it is a worrying mistrust of citizens in the institutions of government. For years now, in independent research, citizens of government and Croatian Parliament's work have been graded enough. And what's the reason? Why is the judiciary perceived as a state in the state? Because it is the only authority in the standard trio of the Western democracy authorities that controls all other authorities and it is not controlled by other authorities except in the extreme case of criminal behaviour of judges, and even then with great difficulties, other authorities do not control it. And here I don't mean the control in making court decisions that are and must be out of the reach of anyone but the judiciary. But if judicial decisions are massively late, if many of them are unable to withstand more serious professional criticism, if the circumstances of decision-making are unusual and if the judiciary does not enjoy even the basic trust of citizens, if judges choose those who are far from the best candidates, if they protect their loved ones, sometimes crime of their colleagues, then the other two authorities must simply do something for the sake of state and society and the legislative and executive power does nothing. Here and there, a turn that we can characterize reforms, changes in procedural and organisational regulations that are nothing serious that would allow for better judicial work even less to cut down the unhappiness and all the ugly things the public is talking about and let alone end corruption. In doing so, it is best to support cases where some judges have organized a genuine corrupt network and smudged enormous money for themselves and their partners through decades of systematic robbery. Periodic and rigorous security checks and control of the property of judges are only one of the necessary answers to this problem. Justice in Croatia is waiting for the government to appear ready to use the instruments at its disposal, to bring down the country's misery and make the judiciary a highly professional, independent and responsible third branch of government. We are aware that only one man, here I think of the President of the Supreme Court, is neither realistic nor realistic that we think there is a big change that we all expect, but what we can do to begin is give hope and be that spark of change in the judicial system and the introduction of order and will to do so all together, to be a wheel, a step towards improving and establishing order in our judiciary. Today, the often recognizable link between justice and politics is no longer the result of the domination of justice policy but of their illegal pact to the harm of citizens of the state and of justice. Therefore, in accordance with its constitutional powers, the President of the Supreme Court and the Court of Justice himself, or outside, has the opportunity to bring in a person who will not conformistically safeguard the illegal status of the state in the country but rather work seriously on judicial reform. In 2013, Dobrinić opposed the banks and the decision-making sided with the users of the damaged Swiss savings by declaring the currency clause and the variable rates worthless, thus opening the way for the debtors to sue over the damage against a number of banks. It is one of the things that is needed in the system to improve the system itself, independence, knowledge but certainly will. Anyone at the head of the Supreme Court is obliged to stick to the Constitution and rights and respect the legal order of the Republic of Croatia. On the one hand, the President of the Supreme Court provides the legitimacy of the judicial authority, but on the other hand, the link between the judiciary and politics is therefore the key to the rule of law in democracy, to elect an independent person in the lead. The Social Democrats Club advocates that politics should finally be shown that it can decide according to the criteria of expertise and integrity, not by similarity criteria, and choose an independent person at the head of the judicial authority. If we are to root out corruption in the judiciary, politics must remove the stigma to influence the judiciary and now has a chance to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62244	Thank you. Mr. Marin Lerotić will speak in front of the IDS Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62245	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here's finally the time to bring this saga around the Supreme Court president to an end because it really just took too long. For too long, this topic has been discussed, discussed, written, and in fact it should have been solved long ago. Because the judiciary is in general, we'll all agree, one complex area that really has too many problems and holes that are why we're in this situation today. You've all probably read, some have heard that in the previous debate, how the citizens of the Republic of Croatia have the least confidence of all EU citizens, or have the worst opinion on the independence of the Croatian judiciary. And it's not a fabrication, it's a study shown by the Eurobarometer, which was recently published in public. The survey is to check the public's mood on behalf of the European Commission and other EU institutions. And doesn't that tell us anything? I think it's a very clear message to all of us that our citizens have told us, and I'm sure many people here think that too, it's just a question of whether or not they want to tell us whether they can or can't. And as the main reason for the poor view of justice in Croatia, respondents put the interference or pressure of government or politicians first, while in the second place economic pressure or others. A large number of citizens have also declared that the position of judges does not guarantee their independence enough. Our citizens have sent a clear message, and it is therefore essential that we restore our faith in the judicial system. And it's not just about the election of a Supreme Court president who's been going on too long because we all know that the Supreme Court president can't change the whole state of justice. Changing a complete picture of citizens or making a revolution is necessary in an institution such as the Supreme Court. But I want to believe that this is a small step in the right direction where we must show the common policy and restore trust in the institutions. Maybe this is exactly what shows that as a society, we're ready to take steps to improve justice. And it is not a good message to the public that a country like Croatia that needs legal, but also economic stability, spends so much time choosing the Supreme Court president and even though one judge, even though he is the President of the Supreme Court cannot change the whole judiciary, he is the head of the judicial authority responsible for the functioning of the judiciary and he can begin to change it. I must point out once again that the feeling of uncertainty and the feeling of mistrust in the judiciary is indeed one of the three main reasons for moving young people out of our country. And how can that be fixed, how can the image change? So that institutions are strengthened, that the citizens feel that they are not managed by people of Croatia, but by laws, and that will restore their trust. Judge Dobrinić is known by many in the Franak case where he ruled in favour of the citizens and gave hope to all the damaged. It gives the impression that this is the right and responsible choice, which is in the interests of citizens and I hope that this appointment, which is expected to be a high degree of consent in the assembly, is an example for future settlement of the issue in the judiciary which must be an extra-party issue in order to find the best legal solutions and ensure satisfactory material and technical conditions so that the judicial system can function. It is also necessary for the assembly as a legislative body to receive feedback from the President of the Supreme Court which should be changed in the system at a legal level where there may be gaps in the laws to be dealt with in order for the laws to be a quality tool for judges in decision-making and thus to improve the legal or legal framework and to reduce the number of cases in courts. There is a need for a concrete initiative from the Supreme Court, not that the report by the President of the Supreme Court year by year is actually just statistical representations of certain figures, and essentially nothing changes. And this judge Dobrinić should be given the opportunity and support to encourage this tromium system to change, we need quality laws, we need quality judgments because statistics do not benefit much. Finally, I believe that this is one step that will restore hope for Croatian citizens about the independence of the Croatian judiciary and of the just Croatia, and just led by that opinion, and that hope the IDS will support this proposal for the Supreme Court president. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62246	Thank you. Mr. Krunoslav Katičić will speak in front of the HDZ Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62247	The Honorable Vice President of the Assembly, HS, respected colleagues and fellow parliamentary deputies. Here is the introduction before further talks can only tell you immediately, although this is already public communication, the HDZ Club as part of the parliamentary majority will support the election so far by Mr Radovan Dobrinić of the current Judge of the Commercial Court in Zagreb for the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. But let me move forward in this debate to look back at some parts that seem quite important to me, to emphasize during this debate. About the very procedure of choice... The President of the Supreme Court as from the very beginning is somehow imposed on the wrong and wrong interpretation of the roles and... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The very election of the Supreme Court President. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] He wants to be shown as saving the key to the Croatian judiciary reform. But it's not even gonna be like that. The President of the Supreme Court shall, above all, have powers with regard to the organisation of the work of the Court itself, whose head, he does not assign the cases, they are assigned by electronic means, he does not generally judge, he does not propose or lay down regulations. The real reform is done by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and this goes into three basic segments, legislative, organisational and developmental. Therefore, the focus of our government will be to reduce the number of pending cases especially those older than seven years, to reduce the further duration of the procedure, which is already being introduced through digitalisation and remote debate in some courts as experimentally showing excellent results and will continue in this direction. Furthermore, I would also like to highlight some of the other important things that took place in this process, in parallel with this mistake, the the thesis that the new Supreme Court president as a person would be saved by the Croatian judiciary in this process was partially demeaning and muddying not only the judges of the Supreme Court but all the judges in the Republic of Croatia. Due to such access to the report on the rule of law, we have also received criticism from the European Commission. Trust in the judiciary has been reduced to the extent that the position of the perceptions of judges and judicial duties has probably never been worse and other than that the perception is not correct it is also extremely harmful. And now a little bit about the reasons why it decided to support candidate Radovan Dobronic. Judge Dobrinić is a candidate who meets all the conditions of a public call that he has made in his professional career many times mentioned in the case of Franak, which is important to highlight confirmed by all the higher courts and ultimately by the Constitutional Court of the Republic. Judge Dobronic responded to a public call in accordance with the prescribed procedure and was proposed as a candidate for the Supreme Court president. Prior to making the decision to support Judge Dobronic, our club took into account his programme, the opinion of the general session of the Supreme Court, the hearing held before the relevant Assembly Committee on Justice. Four candidates remain in the process and are therefore subject to such a decision. In conclusion, the conclusion is that it is undeniably a fair judge, a devoid of corruption and interested in his job. He's a good candidate, so it's unlikely that in some future procedure and in the event of a new call he'd be a better candidate. It's important to emphasize. We will therefore support this proposal, as I said primarily motivated by the desire and the need to bring the election of the Supreme Court president to an end because it has brought much more harm to the Croatian judiciary than it benefits. Our support to the proposed candidate and decisions based on reason, resulting from responsibility to Croatian citizens. It is the only way to restore focus on the problems that may be more important for our society at this time, including reconstruction, but also on judicial reform and the fight against corruption. The plan is further that the reforms of the judiciary contained in the national recovery and resilience in which we have committed to meeting 13 major reform measures and six development projects. We have negotiated 730 million kuna for execution, if it succeeds, and we believe that we will do so after Croatia enters the EU it will be the biggest procedure in our judicial system. Finally, with regard to the reform of the judiciary, which is for an advanced reason, it is an opportunity that is often obtained, does not often get, and we need to take advantage of it. So we think it's time to devote all our energy to this sole goal. The judiciary needs to be changed, but this is done by concrete measures and by strengthening trust in the profession, by respecting the rules and decisions of the judicial authority and ultimately by the decisions of the Constitutional Court itself. Well, I want to believe, and we're sure at the HDZ Club that this is the right way and that this election, as I was saying at the outset, will support the choice of Judge Radovan Dobronic as Supreme Court President. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62248	You, too. Mrs. Dalia Oreskovic will speak in front of the Club of the Centre and GLAS.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62249	Dear colleagues and colleagues. We often hear that a man himself can't do anything, but it's not always like that. There are times in which it is just one man who makes a key difference. Judge Radovan Dobrinić can be the one who brings the necessary shift into the system. I will compare it with what the Supreme Court President said about the role of Marin Mrcela, a judge I also appreciate, saying that the Supreme Court President is not a revolutionary, is not a radical who can change the system because there is no power to do so. In theory it is true, however, Radovan Dobronic comes from practice, and his programme is one different vision of law and with it has hit the essence more than all the reforms of the judiciary have done together. and our so-called Calls for reforms dealt with buildings and the question of whether we had too many courts, too few courts, too few municipal, too little county, but did not deal with the structure and content of rights in terms of application and interpretation of legal norms. Five key issues that Radovan Dobronic sees are significantly different from all others who talk about the judiciary on a political and legal scene. First, see where all hidden levers of influence, domination and the power of policy over the judiciary endangering the real independence of the judicial authority. Among other things, this is seen in the imposition of framework criteria and norms which are radically designed because cases are not valued by their weight and content and the Presidents of the Courts become the extended hand of the Minister of Justice who is increasingly engaged in all other issues rather than those of the right organisational or other matters on which the quality of the trial depends. Statistics became the main one, and judges themselves became officials who don't even think that something is essentially wrong with such a system. Secondly, he sees that so far information has been established, an unintelligently designed solution and also one of the ways of inappropriate control of judges instead of adapting the judge to a technical means. Judge Radovan Dobrinić was the only one who challenged the fact that the e-File system is run by Finn and the owner of the system is the Ministry of Justice, so the government as well as the financial agencies themselves, that is, politics and not the judiciary. In doing so, judges do not have the ability to see the basic data that would be necessary for them on the party in the dispute to correctly determine some procedural matters, such as the existence of double litispedence, the issue of already resolved decisions and from the position of division of authorities, this situation is unsustainable. Thirdly, it points to absurdities arising from the fact that the judiciary does not have its own financial autonomy in relation to political will and how absurd this financial impotence is, it is also evident that the judicial buildings can be identified by the fact that they are generally the most corrupt and devastationed buildings. In large cities they were built 100 years ago, there are no courts in which discussions can be held and by a number of defendants, there is no possibility of adaptation to modern needs, such as adapting access to people with disabilities. But even where such buildings died in an earthquake, the government obviously has no interest in giving the judiciary this minimum of dignity, even if the courts are not spaces where the party’s files are being dumped on the floor and on the corners because there is simply no room elsewhere. Judge Dobrinić, among other things, points to the bribery of the scribes, trainees, trainees and advisers. Fourthly, the metric indicates where judges should, therefore, and not only be able to take on a proactive role in applying and interpreting the law, indicates how many states and, in particular, the judicial authority would have failed in the application of consumer law in executive procedures, which led to hundreds of thousands of executions actually being carried out in an illegal manner. In this work, the EU's right is above ours, but to the kind of lawlessness and violence that has cast many of our citizens into misery and despair, no one has even blinked. Furthermore, it describes that each application of specific parts of the law and, without final decision, verifying whether this result is in accordance with the principles of good faith, creates a systemic injustice because, through the formal application of the law, there is a distorted verdict and thus a distorted judiciary. And the opposite of the entrenched and false mantras, as chapter five, indicates that we won't achieve much by just counting solved cases if we don't deeply imagine what their quality is. My respect for the judge has been acquired long ago, but within this public call, he has gained additional sympathy for the way he has subdued the antagonism between the two hills because the hill had to be supported by the judge even though he had previously disgusted and tarnished the entire state government and the other hill had to accept that despite this judge's truly miserable attempt to initiate a tight procedure for failing to comply with the norm, no serious flaw can be found. Radovan Dobronic said that the situation in the judiciary is guilty on the one hand of politics and on the other hand a poor general organisation of society, and in this part he proposed good solutions. He also said that a change of concept is necessary because after gaining independence and independence, there has been no analysis that is, in fact, the role of the right and then the trial. From the former system, we inherited that false notion that justice and justice are not the same and that the right tool is in the hands of the ruling class. And for our situation in the judiciary, there is no more radical than what Radovan Dobrinić asks for, which is that the verdicts become not only formal-legal but also just because the judiciary is not just, as if it is not. On the other hand, he finally made us talk about the judiciary, talk about the metrics, and that's what he's done more than all the reforms so far. But I'm afraid when he talked about the problems of the bankruptcy law, about the fraud of insurance houses, about the trust in the land book, about the illegal conduct of banks, I don't know how many of us there are politicians among us who could really hear him. On a number of concrete examples, he described that the state did not respect the legal order and the law it had created through its competent authorities, but for a short period of time, I will mention only one. Dobrinic presented the facts, did not charge HDZ with ignorance or intent, but here, dear colleagues of HDZ, I accuse you. You may not have noticed, but within the framework of the programme of work and hearings before the Committee on Justice, Radovan Dobronic has presented evidence and read the indictment against HDZ, more deadly than those for which the party is unlawfully convicted of corruption. He accused the system that creates legalized thieving and legalized robbery, and there has been no major blow to the system and a bigger slap for this power than that criticism peacefully spoken, factually precise and related to the failures of the government, which in the past 30 years has been mostly HDZ's and has silently allowed such a situation. For example, he pointed out that the system noticed the exposure of Agrokora to banks and when the CNB observed this, he banned banks from further lending of companies from Agrokor, but the banks established factoring of companies engaged in the purchase of unaccompanied claims, as a rule only those inaccessible claims created on the basis of really supplied goods and services, which in practice was technically carried out as an escount, however, the problem was that there were not so many bonds for the really issued goods and services, so within that mass there were invoices for goods and services which were not at all, so it was purely crediting and violation of the CNB ban in a detachible way. According to the Company Act, the Government could press charges against all the factoring companies to which it is sought, not only the ban on labour but also their liquidation, the removal from the Court Register because their work hurt the public good. The government has never, since '95, '96. She did not take advantage of this authority, but here she needed and this failure made it very difficult for the government to resolve the crisis later in Agrokor because the debt of Agrokora was increasing. The assets of such liquidated commercial factoring companies could have become state property without any compensation, and in all billions were concerned, so the government deliberately, deliberately, and with a corrupt purpose ignored its own legal order. The factoring of societies acted in bad faith with the aim of bypassing the CNB ban, and all this HDZ could and had to know because of the fact that the finance minister was sitting on all the key chairs that he had in his hands all the important levers of power. Just before the ministerial chair, he was an employee of Agrokor, in charge of his financing system. As finance minister, he was, among other things, in charge of creating the provisions of the factoring law, and it is not to the contrary that his sister is a high-ranking person within the HANFA as a supervisory body. As president of the HBOR Supervisory Board, he influenced the approval of the last tranche of favourable state loans, knowing what our public money was being thrown at, and as a member of the Borg Group directly influenced the fact that all the billions that could have belonged to the state, this Borg group put in its pocket. When asked what kind of person we need at the head of the judiciary, my answer is, well, the one who's able to recognize it all, connect it, and tell it. With special satisfaction, I will vote for Judge Radovan Dobronic because he is the person who deserves it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62250	- Mrs. Crescent. Sandra Bencic will speak in front of the Green-Left bloc MPs' club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62251	Thank you. I have already spoken here, as many of you, about the situation in the judiciary in Croatia, but also about this whole process of election of the president of the VSRH who actually revealed to the end all the forms of HDZ policy in relation to the judiciary and the quality of the judges we choose, the president of the VSRH here, but also through other mechanisms at other levels. So, the fact that a large number of citizens of the Republic of Croatia have no confidence in the judiciary is generally known, however, what they would like to say today is that it is not only a matter of perception but it is a matter of real systemic disadvantages and gaps between the results achieved by the judicial system on the other hand, the need for society for adequate legal protection of citizens and legal persons or what Judge Dobrnic was talking about, and that is the need for justice. Many times we've heard from HDZ here claims that justice reform, we don't know exactly where it's been, but that it's achieved success due to a radical reduction in the number of pending cases. However, it's a mere distortion of.../incomprehensible reality. First, the reduction in the number of cases in the significant part was the result of a clean privatisation of judicial activities that the judiciary is moving away from its citizens, and legal protection has very much been accumulated. For example, the participation of public notebooks and FINA in the matter. The crisis of over-indebted national economy and credit over-indebted citizens to whom the poor judiciary could not even adequately and timelyly respond, your answer was to move a large number of cases from the courts themselves. For example, it's overcoming the bankruptcy process, but it's also lex Agrokor. Overcoming judicial enforcement through direct collection procedures through FINA and overcoming the court procedure of certification of uncontested investigations through transfers of payment orders to public notebooks and lawyers. All this is, in fact, the privatisation of certain court proceedings whose price is ultimately paid by citizens and legal persons, that is, those for which the judiciary here should be. Furthermore, the achievement of some short-term goals, so cutting down the number of cases left behind, actually sacrificed long-term goals and, in fact, generated a new crisis in the judiciary. That is, for me, an example, quantification of the criteria for the evaluation of work in the judiciary. If you have below 80% of the standard, you can initiate a tight procedure. In general, this idea of norm shows that justice and judicial work are actually perceived as mechanical and completely uncreative activity. As some automated process that can be quantified and where such a quantity is the number of cases one has done more important indicator than the quality of the judicial decisions that have been taken and the fact that citizens have received access to justice, not only to the judiciary. What else is done? So, we have an important question about the participation of judicial advisors as shadow judges who instead of teamworking with the judges themselves, doing judicial work for a significantly lower salary, and because of them there is a legitimate question as to whether our citizens have the right to an independent judge. Furthermore, public and contradictory court hearings have disappeared, disappeared from senior courts, especially from the Supreme Court. The trial before the highest instance turned into a closed paper procedure for the public which could only later be seen its course and content when the rulings were published, if and when they were published. All these measures have caused further separation of the judiciary from the public and its democratic delegation by giving the wrong signal to lower courts that the Supreme Court represents a process in which neither the parties nor the public participate. It's the highlight of our trial today, there's no parties, there's no discussion contradictory, there's no public. Independence and responsibility of the judicial authority, we know that they are far from satisfactory because this formal degree, the formal degree of high institutional independence has turned into its opposite, which is that the autonomy of the judiciary is interpreted as an absolute value, not as a separate branch of government that is not entirely separate from the world and reality and from other branches of government, but rather as one of the elements of brakes and balance. That's how the judiciary closed down to public criticism. Justice structures today avoid facing critical attitudes. We had Supreme Court President Djurus Sessu here who spoke openly about the issue of public perceptions and that these indicators are irrelevant because it doesn't matter to the judiciary, that reality is actually completely different. Supreme Court President Djuro Sessa participated in seminars that discussed whether public criticism of court decisions was actually an attack on judicial autonomy and on judicial autonomy, so he participated in it. This incarceration was also seen by the judges of the Supreme Court, the criminal court and some other courts when they received criticism from their colleagues, colleagues from law school. All these problems we have heard more or less, but we have heard very little about what direction judicial reform should be. The reform cannot be carried out by the President of the Supreme Court, we know that, but the President of the Supreme Court can bring and show the direction in which she should go, and we here are in charge of making him a framework and a legislative and institutional one that will help him. What we see is that we need to do to ensure access to courts for real court cases, so those cases in which judicial intervention is the most appropriate way to solve a particular case, but at the same time to reduce the circle of cases in which the court conducts only a specific kind of judicial administration and we need to transfer such cases to judicial officers, we need to eliminate the participation of judges in election proceedings, encourage autonomous dispute settlement and build alternative dispute resolution systems. First of all, we must also ensure judicial proceedings for collective settlement of deals with the participation and support of representatives of state authorities, such as in the cases of loans denominated in Swiss francs, so the Franak case. Not every citizen of this country should conduct court proceedings separately, we could secure a procedure in which a collective settlement would actually take place. All these simple and repetitive objects are thought to be solved with a high degree of process automation and use of digital technologies, and on the other hand important items should be solved in special and flexiblely designed procedures that will not be counted as norm because not everything can be norm and not always be the same and not every subject is the same as as much as Mr. Boric's funny. Also, any court decisions in which the public has not been excluded should be made available to the public immediately after they have been made, immediately, and this includes first-degree decisions which have not been regularly published. We also need to reorganise the courts in order to break the link between the area of jurisdiction and the administrative organisation of the state that is not right for us anyway. Therefore, the optimal organisation of a network of first-degree courts in Croatia should have a maximum of 12 courts, and networks of district or regional courts should have a maximum of 4 courts as cities in the centres of legal excellence of Zagreb, Split, Osijek and Rijeka, while retaining judicial offices and services in other places to ensure physical availability, but also in this way they would actually ensure a much more efficient management of the entire system and free up resources for what they really need to do, which is a trial. Specialisations within courts should be achieved by means of measures to establish specialised departments within the structure of regular courts, not necessarily new courts. So these are the things we should start talking about here and make proposals for institutional improvement of the judicial system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62252	We're moving on to individual discussions. She's Mrs. First. Maria Selak Rasudiæ, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62253	I think the four key things I'm going to try to look at are in this individual debate, as far as the election of a new Supreme Court president is concerned. The first is at all the importance of the procedure itself, whether it is a reform or if we are really all as a society ready to respect it. That's what I was talking about at a stop on behalf of the club. In fact, here the biggest problem arises in the sense that the question is whether we need this kind of public call at all or whether we can have a person who was directly run by the president. In that sense, we could witness the hypocrisy of HDZ, who rebelled against the first under the quotes of the president's candidate precisely because she did not make a public call, and then one clumsy public statement that I was aware of, and we were not aware enough, because obviously this corrupt consciousness was so internalized that we no longer reflect on it, and some things became self-evident and normal that we should never be, therefore, and what the Prime Minister was publicly talking about as one of the potential candidates who had been supported by him before she even applied to a public call. So before consulting with the committee responsible, which is that justice should have been able to make those decisions on its own in the first place. But we know that otherwise, in the parliamentary debates, we are not talking at all about, say, HDZ's government, but only about the government of the great High Chief Andrej Plenkovic, so we do not have to be surprised that he decides exclusively in all important matters. Secondly, we would expect certain candidates to be compromised and the programme to be proposed first. Bianko's support, no matter how high-quality he was, without applying for a public invitation, tells us only one thing, which is that a public call in this case, and the wider question is whether or not we are only not publicly informed, a clear farce, and that's what HDZ itself from its prime minister's mouth, by his actions, is praising that it would support a potential candidate who finally failed to report to us. The second question I want to briefly address concerns the previous candidates we have had the opportunity to discuss. When we were talking about Professor... I believe that is where all the key weaknesses and left and right have been discovered. On the one hand, the right side of the country was exclusively ideologies, not at all taken into account the arguments and disprovement of the Professor. Djurdjevic, who was concerned with the difamation and her character and works. On the other hand, the left did not consider it necessary to hold a debate on what was happening before the establishment of an independent Croatia or the widow's liquidations. So I believe that the debate on it has actually shown the key problems of Croatian political society. What the current candidates are talking about, Mr. Mrcella, is an expert but is his main problem, since we have a noticeable problem with the perception of the judiciary is that it is part of the existing legal system and of the current Supreme Court, and we all know which one it is and how it managed. In conclusion, I would like to say a few words about the current candidate who is the prospective future president of the Supreme Court. If we observe his programme, then we can really notice an enviable breadth of speech about the principle of law which is fundamentally argumentating the problem of stifling the courts and offering a solution, referring to the key problems that Croatian construction has in several aspects of the problem of violence, the questions of punishment of registrars, the media and to the relationship to consumer law, but also the working conditions and the way in which the judges are properly controlled, and the criteria by which court cases are awarded that go exclusively according to some principled assignments rather than to the qualities and interests of individual judges. The basic thing Dobrinić provided us with with his quality program is one hope. With the perception he created around him precisely because of the Franak case, he managed to give one hope to the Croatian people that their problems would be the focus of judges' actions. And I hope that, in that sense, our trust will be justified. And what I'm going to say in the end is that both the work of the Supreme Court and all the judges is primarily about us as a assembly, so the greatest responsibility and criticism should be on us, and that is the question of quality legislation that in our jurisdiction and which is often not at the level at which it should be. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62254	Thank you very much. Mr. Bull's first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62255	Thank you very much. Slowness, inequity of courts and the work of judges in the Republic of Croatia is known, and particularly slowness. However, I must say, and I must commend the court this way, for example. For the days of Alka and the Great Lady I was a one-time deejay behind half the night and it's so fast and effective the judiciary that already the witnesses were called and I was already in court so I could praise at speed. It's the speed of praise, but the inequality, for example, is important. ...in court will it be at the opening of the Pelješko bridge, I don't know if he was a colleague, Boric, Klaric, I don't know if they were, but I saw that it was all dawn after half the night, so here I'm talking straight here about speed equality, I'm pretty quick, and any honor to them on that, and here I could commend the court for being a deejay with pride I say half the night in Sinj that they're enough [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] fast and efficient. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62256	Do you have an answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62257	I see my colleague Boris is laughing and commenting on something, so I hope that my colleague Boric will really dance about how he will play our deejay Mr. Bulj, perhaps already did during Alka, I have not observed what beat and rhythm you dance in. So, yes, indeed, the fundamental problem is exactly what counterpart Bulj was talking about, and that is the problem of the perception of the judiciary as a political rather than an independent institution. And that has ground to it also in the fact that we see what happens with second-degree judgments where we have had high-quality first-degree judgments, for example. in the case of politicians suing the media, and then the second-degree rulings would disprove it and eventually the European Court of Human Rights' sentence would be the same as the first-degree verdicts. So there is a serious problem about this and an open question whether the judiciary is being misused at these higher levels and politically institutionalised.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62258	Thank you very much. And let us not provoke ourselves among the MPs if this is not foreseen in this Rules of Procedure or provided for, but under sanctions. Here you go, Mr. Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62259	Your Honor, Vice President. Here, given that we have today and respected colleagues today, we have this debate, we have requested the Ministry of Justice at the Mosta Club, so I will provide data on the duration of certain courts, specifically municipal courts in 2019, so the average litigation takes 963 days, and for traders an average of 942 days. I ask the question, did you mention the general legislative system, which is your view on the length of litigation in terms of, for example, one entrepreneurial perspective, as far as it is, by looking at such an analysis went beyond Croatia and the other, I would like to touch both our judicial advisers, court officials and professional associates, they are important, they work for anything maybe 5,000 kuna, they have completed judicial exams, there was once a stampede for all these jobs, but people no longer want to work for such small coefficients One-and-a-half hard jobs like that. [[Intruder: Time, thank you.]] There he is, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62260	Answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62261	So, as far as this first part of the question is concerned, we have also warned in our programme, where we have taken a thorough look at the problem of the judiciary that it is necessary to cut those deadlines by almost half in order to bring us closer to the European average at all. What Judge Dobrinić promised in the debate and discussion in his program, and no one should have the Bianca support and what we will check since we will show him confidence, and what our duty is is also greater efficiency of the courts. So there's both the question of oversatisfaction and too many cases, and then the duration of resolution itself. What concerns us most as legislators and where we are counting, and first we need to be self-critical is exactly the amount of new laws that are reputedly voted in every assembly. We have in the past 735 laws, and now it's in effect 786 laws. Our laws They never pass reality test because they're not good enough, and that's where we should do better. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62262	Thank you very much. Mr. Grmoya.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62263	My colleagues, Selak Rasudiæ, so many today in free speech called it a travesty, called it a travesty that takes too long, we know who's responsible for it. They are responsible for ruling and in fact this public call is a farce because without the agreement of Andrej Plenkovic and Zoran Milanovic, it is not possible to elect the President of the Supreme Court because it is clear that colleagues from HDZ will not vote for any candidate because they think he is good, that he is smart, that he can change things in the Croatian judiciary but will vote for him when they get the green light from the Ban Courts. But what's good, though, is that we've been through this tape that was deserved by ruling, but we could still discuss problems in the Croatian judiciary and we've put it in the public's focus, and I hope here, as you said, that the choice of Judge Dobronic will still bring a good wind. and that we will finally be here in the Croatian Parliament [[Intruder: Time.]] to pass laws that will improve the situation in the Croatian judiciary. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62264	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62265	Let's face it, that's plain enough to say, Dobronic certainly wasn't HDZ's candidate. If he had been, he wouldn't have been at the time when he had to be supported, since the president had already told his president at once that there was a potential candidate to whom he had given, what I'm dealing with is Bianca's support, and the prime minister didn't, and the president wouldn't support it. And that's good. He is in this sense because he has made this procedure very difficult in front of the wall on which I hope in the end to profit from the Croatian judiciary because since this would have already turned into a serious judicial crisis, we will ultimately choose, together with HDZ, a candidate who was not HDZ's favorite. And that's an important message. However, a public call institution should not be fooled. It's not about this public call, it's about a public call like that. As long as it exists, until it is abolished, it must be respected otherwise we send An alarming message to Croatian citizens. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62266	Thank you. Now it's Mr. Bull's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62267	What to say about this contest that was held, and it lasts for months. I could talk about justice now. The most important thing is that the trial should be in the judiciary, and that is effective and swift and just. In Croatia everything is the other way around, we have 3n, it's inefficient. So here's the one thing I'm telling you right now is an example that may be a personal example, but maybe it's also picturesque. Not long ago in Sinjska Alcia, on the day of the Alka when we have hundreds of thousands of people in the middle of the night came to ban me from singing, so that we celebrate and then in Croatia at the moment there were about 13 million tourists in this season eating and on Hvar normal where Beroš it is celebration where Mr. Boris, Klaric is celebrating, drinking, drinking and, of course, I estimated that people were frustrated, there was a guest most, if there was someone in Sinjska alci, if you did not come next year and I am glad that everything Beroš was trying to do, Capak and this team and Bozinović still had 20 more percent of the visit to Sinj city for the days of Alka and Velka Lady that you wanted to ban Mark Perković Thompson's concert, Mile Kekin and the Cold Beer, all of which I kept it all, so much more than possible, so that the New Zealand had been accused of the New Year's. And that inefficient judiciary on me was effective and quick and the tribune praise, one clap, one hand for speed. However, when it was on the Peljesko Bridge at 1,000 of them after half the night, people who are in HDZ around the prime minister, I apologize to my colleague Boris if he wasn't, but most of them were singing then, hugged behind midnight, but there is no movement. That's ineffectiveness, inequality. That's not good. For me, the applause that I am so quick, effective, and I have no problem here and I am glad that Sinj has seen a huge increase in visitors during the Alka and the Great Lady with all the efforts of Beroš to reduce this visibility of Sinj and to crush both the Alka and the Great Lady and hope that it will not work for anyone, neither will the Turks, so it is unlikely for this government either. So that's one example. Or when you invite people to these measures, you don't punish them for masking, you punish our children to wear masks, and here you are, as soon as the session is over, everyone will take off the mask. Everyone, it's me I wouldn't wear them, but I won't even let them talk, right, so they'll say take it out, so they'll say here he's doing the circus. Here was the other day in the monastery of the Wonder Lady of Sinj 100-year-old nuns in Sinj, I was there as mayor and the headmaster who refused the civilian headquarters that children do not wear masks, which is quite stupid, is he, sitting there without us hundreds, without a mask, the headmaster of one school, on each other. It's hypocrisy, so is justice. We're sending a message, we're the ones sending a message to the judiciary and I'm not going to speak during the Djura Sesa called Kesa, who was before to even comment on something. We have to have an effective judiciary and the same. And inequality is the basic problem of what is in Croatia according to the criteria of the political card. We have a problem and an example of Raiffeisen's savings-credit cooperatives where some people were freed, justly freed because it was a crime, while here's a judge who meant directly in the conflict of interest because he used one of her family members that credit had annulled it and what we unanimously brought in during Scybol, Scybolin so-called. The law has been annulled. So we have a problem, here on Rab, this problem is exclusive, I hope that Boric will talk about it because it is one of the bigger problems in the area where these criminal savings-credit cooperatives, Hungary and Austria, where they come up with their feet up their ass and shut them down, the State's Attorney's Office is stalking them, in Croatia they do whatever they want, usurp means the property of our people and violate the law that the Parliament has passed. So the inequality of the judiciary is very large, it's for example this little one of my own, and we have a similar example, here, I can again on my example where the elementary disaster of Stipe Mesic personally sued me and you know who the judge is? The daughter of the father he proposed to the Supreme Court, for the President of the Supreme Court, and not one of my evidence wants me to explain it. So it's all connected. corrupt, nepotism and that's how it works. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62268	Thank you. Mrs. Selak Rasudiæ has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62269	Dear counterpart Bulj, the judiciary is something that really concerns and affects every Croatian citizen, why? Because people in Croatia feel unprotected, they are afraid that if an injustice occurs to them, the system will not protect them. In that sense, I think we should talk about some concrete examples, even if someone does, of their own experiences. Here you are now beginning to talk about your case, the case where you are in court with former President Stipe Mesic, and perhaps to give the public a little more information about how long it takes and how it develops.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62270	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62271	... I would say that classical nepotism in the judiciary and clientelism where a clientele can choose its own judge. [[Specially enabled.]] From the judge who judges Stipe Mesic has proposed her father to be President of the Supreme Court, so that this person judges me, not one of my evidence, for example. He said he never said that he never said that Jasenovac was a rescue for all those who came to Jasenovac and not that there was a crime. And such countless statements, mostly checks are missing and Stipe Mesic claims $150,000 Australian dollars but Stipe Mesic claims he hasn't said anything and the judge won't say anything, see the videos, doesn't want it, says it's unnecessary for her, that the man is a saint and that's it, is he then named to the Supreme Court. [[Intruder Radin: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62272	Mr. Troscott, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62273	Dear fellow Bulj, many analysts actually believe that these changes in the Supreme Court have actually come from your diagnosis that the basic problem of the Kes justice system is. That's your diagnosis of anything you've asked that fish always smells like head, so here's the clean one, can you look back at that analysis of how you came to it and what makes you think of it as a scientific method and another question that I have for you, do you see any coincidence about this whole farce about the election of the Supreme Court, that it connects to something that came out in the daily press paper today, which is that you might very soon come and judgment about the Fimi Media? So it's true somewhere in the four months that the Supreme Court's election took, along with that verdict that we're all waiting for. There he is, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62274	We have a scientific response.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62275	So here's the first part of the US-Swedish experts found that the main problem in the Croatian judiciary was Kes. So it means Kesa, but it's also an answer to this other question of yours. And that's a coincidence because Djuro Sesa was called Kesa, the President of the Supreme Court, I told him here but I'm sorry that man isn't here and it's working like that, so the bigger the bag and the more the bag, the more effective your judiciary is, but I told you before this case around me personally, it's a little bit and insignificant, I'm staying on it and the dada, and as far as this other case is concerned, it just Sanader was all my fault. Ivo Sanader was the only one to blame for everything that happened. He didn't know how to defend Branko Bačić, he didn't know Boric, Klaric didn't know him, his colleagues didn't know him, no one saw him or grassed him. He wasn't the president of them, God forbid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62276	Mr. Grmoya, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62277	Thank you. Comrade Bulj, you were talking about the duration of the proceedings, but you were talking about how unfortunately the judiciary or at least the judgments being passed depended on how much influence it had in society, so it doesn't have to be political, it can be influence, and which here can be bought money, you talked about it, so we have a case of a football manager who hung out with judges, he certainly didn't have any direct political influence, but he had a big impact on society. On the other hand, we have a situation that in the election of judges, I once said that DSV is a source of corruption, so a major impact on whether someone will be elected or promoted has a conversation with the candidates and therefore it is crucial, not tests, so it is 10 candidates who achieve the best result, then there goes the conversation and so we choose who will advance in our judicial system.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62278	Thank you, thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62279	Well, I think he was a colleague of the Troscotts just now, and I've confirmed that he's the main means there's a bag. So all these competitions that are happening are solved with that problem, and that would only be legal. In my opinion, this is all you said, I can actually sign, there's nothing to add or subtract. The fact that the judiciary, people have the greatest mistrust in the judiciary, and that's why we both have an economy, a weak economy and an economy. We see at this point here's only when we talk about oil collection, fuel, gasoline that we don't have margin control in Croatia, we don't have to control the margin. We simply left it to the verse, of course in that verse is poverty, homelessness, and these people will of course not be able to do justice, not defend themselves, but be able to participate at all, they are already condemned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62280	Mr. Whiteman.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62281	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Bulj, I must tell you that you are a very brave man in view of all the criticisms, including the jokes with the Croatian judiciary that I fully support, I must warn you that you are probably unconscious and alone, and you said that in your case, the judiciary is very fast and effective, that you have left yourself carelessly or threatened because you have stated that you have worked as a DJ, and I assume you have no deal of action or that you have done it outside of working time, so that you expect some kind of application on this matter, or you can, in the old Croatian good habit, anti-dating contracts if you do not have them, I suppose you do not have because you will otherwise answer for it. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62282	You got it, you got it, you got it, you got it, you got
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62283	Thank you very much. A fellow white man... Thank you very much for the advice that I take a look at that contract and change it so that there will be no conflict of interest, so that the commission does not raise. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm very sorry. Yeah, and ZAMP, so when our colleague Peja Grbin didn't pay when she sang the song "Fighting Chavogs"... [[Clip incursion: ZAMP]] I guess that's where he'll be best singing, especially that part of Home Ready, that part, I guess that part of ZAMP will forgive me, too, if Pedja paid for it, I'll pay for it, too. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62284	But that doesn't set you free. Mr. Bull, don't release this to you, you have to answer this to your case.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62285	What?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62286	On your case, on your case, not your coat of arms, Mr. Grbin... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62287	Well, I was wondering that Zamp, I gave it to Zamp. I'll rewrite the contracts, that's what I was going to say, that I'm going to renegotiate the contracts so that there's no conflict of interest...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62288	All right, you're gonna rewrite the contracts. Okay, okay, okay, okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62289	Here I would just, here I thank you very much for the advice of my colleague, Beljak, you were the mayor, say...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62290	Mr. Bull...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62291	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62292	You got more, you got more, you got more, you got more, you got more, you got more.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62293	Can I have some more?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62294	And then after that, you're on the loose.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62295	... There's more. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62296	You're free now. Thank you. Mr. Milan, Michelle Jaksic is next, has the next debate, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62297	Dear Vice President HS, colleagues and fellow MPs. First of all, I have to say that as SDP, we are very pleased that Mr. Dobrinić will obviously be elected Supreme Court President, and I still prefer that after all those breakdowns we've had, and even the trials through the constitutional court, as well as the further we've come to one stage of consensus and that we will obviously have a Supreme Court president who will be elected by a large majority. Of course, what makes us even more happy is that Mr. Dobrnic is in his debate on the Justice Committee, and also in his programme showed that he is deep in the subject of the Croatian judiciary and not only in everything that is happening to us today, and we all see how much increase we have in the number of cases, how we are ranked in the EU by the number of cases and what is ultimately the perception of our citizens according to our judiciary, but Mr. Dobrinić has given one cross over the past 30 years. where he clearly showed what he felt about both conversion and privatisation, what he meant about how we acted as ourselves in our own country and what we allowed through the prism of Agrokor, but also through some other financial operations to foreign banks and foreign financial institutions to work in the Republic of Croatia towards our citizens, and surely they would never dare do so in their own home countries. But I am even more pleased that we have shown, especially to some from the Supreme Court who appeared at the Justice Committee's meeting that it is possible to lead a clear, reasoned, open and transparent debate on how the Croatian judiciary should look, that we do not need to be locked up in a bunker, that there is no need for no one to ask anything, nor to say anything, because it will immediately get the Stigm to bring down faith in the Croatian judiciary, the Croatian judiciary in which there are very positive examples, very many high-quality judges and judges, but also the Croatian judiciary that allowed the mass of those large cases where the conversion and privatisation occur, the Croatian judiciary that allowed today to have refugees across the border because they escaped from the Croatian judiciary, the Croatian judiciary that allowed us to have the mass of those major cases where large political and business fish appear, and that we are very close to the point of being able to reach anyone who has reason that anyone who will find themselves without reason. And it is this one openness and argument that gives me one hope that we will encourage a debate on the Law on Courts that has proved that a lot of things has been unsettled, but that we will also encourage a debate on how we want the Croatian judiciary to look in the coming years and the next 10 years, how we will rank judges, how we will evaluate them, how we will reward them, but how together we will change the role and behaviour of both the DORH and the tax administration and all those other institutions that we should contribute by our work to how our judiciary, and thus the perception of our citizens, of which we all live together, look. I hope that will also arises that Radovan Dobrinić, who certainly cannot turn the situation in the Croatian judiciary itself, has committed a step in this direction. But I also hope that not wanting to document what Zoran Milanovic said, as Andrej Plenkovic said, there are enough of them to document it and analyse that Andrej Plenkovic, who received the trust of the citizens of this country, no matter what we may think about it, will finally cut with himself to make decisions. Not that decisions are being drawn, not that decisions are being delayed, not that we are looking for all possible legal locks at our disposal to avoid something because it is not to make sure that we have a better country and a more satisfying citizen than simply because of the petty political reasons for buying time, avoiding responsibility and avoiding decisions as difficult and unpopular as they may be because this process has also shown that when the president of the Croatian government Plenkovic obviously comes 5 to 12, when a decision must be made, a decision that may not be made by some groups, caste, political rivals or political constituencies go hand in hand and be dear then there is a total vacuum and then we have only visible escape from decisions. It is also one of the factors that will be very, very important to us if we all want to change the state and perception of the Croatian judiciary together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62298	Thank you, too. Mrs. Maric has her first line.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62299	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, here you have said that a consensus has been reached on the fact that Judge Dobrinić is indeed a quality candidate and that we all have some hope that he will be that leader of change in the judiciary, the Supreme Court, etc., however, it is not a pleasant fact that of the 31 members or judges who were in the session of that general session of the Supreme Court only 4 actually gave a vote to the judge. What do you think he'll have enough authority to make changes, maybe tell these judges in some way to soap the board or he'll change his attitude and those characteristics they gave him on his account, that there's no need for the breadth of knowledge of matter, that it's not professional enough, that it's not a work programme, etc. Are we actually going to reach a consensus among all the stakeholders, not just here? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62300	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62301	A lot of questions, a lot of findings, and it's hard to offer a universal answer now that someone might say is that now and that will save us. What we have commented in previous discussions is the fact that despite the fact that there are very high-quality people at the Supreme Court that this same Supreme Court is why, for which reason, which, when, when, turns into a model where we like to act like a caste and we send messages that no one is good enough except for those who sit with us at the table. So, on the other hand, Mr. Mr. Mrcella made the point that the MPs elected by the citizens should not even say whether they agree or disagree. It's when someone escapes across the border in Bosnia and then sends messages where and how they hung out with judges they should say the judiciary is independent. It is certain that Dobranić cannot clarify this on his own, it is certain that he needs support from us, and it is certain that decisions on the future appearance of the Croatian judiciary and the desire for change must be made by this home chosen by the citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62302	Thank you. Mrs. Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62303	Since we are also talking all the time about the Supreme Court and the current potential and probably future President of the Supreme Court Dobrinić, I think the time has come for us to be a little self-critical. So, what we do is ensure this legal security and the system that works, and then we can also have entrepreneurship that is developed and even a regulated country. How is it possible for us to be in the Croatian Parliament, which should be a legislative body, and we mainly participate in political bickering and the consequences of this and exclusively political, and not professional decisions, for example. It's a fact that now it's up to us to change the Revival Act three times in a year. Well, we're doing so well in this respectable home. How to Change It, How to Make Us to do what we do. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62304	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62305	There was much said about the Law on Reconstruction, and it was one of the few laws where we had the unison almost supported by opposition to the ruling. But here we also come to the fact that it is obvious that the law itself has a lot of indetermination as well as a lot of evidence that, media evidence that we are coming back to having a prime minister who is having a hard time making decisions because we have obviously come into a phase that someone will need to cut and say what is wrong with the law, where the blame of the Fund for Reconstruction begins or ends, and where the guilt of Minister Horvat begins and ends. We also saw in the past term how difficult it was for ministers to leave, no matter what kind of affairs they had on them. As far as change is concerned, I agree with you that things should return to the Croatian Parliament and that we simply all have to impose themes together, we must impose laws that will change that state, that perception and what citizens are rightly losing their nerve to today and show their dissatisfaction.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62306	Thank you. Mrs. Nadj... I'm sorry, I didn't see. [[Intruder: You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62307	Article 238, I must correct my colleague, Jaksic, since it is an untrue thesis that persists. I believe he had no bad intentions, but it wasn't about the unison support when it came to the Reconstruction Act, the MOST Club didn't support him, the GLAS Club and the Centre didn't support him, we're also some factor in this assembly, and we can't place a false thesis that everyone unisonly supported the unskilled Rehabilitation Act because that's not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62308	You're right, colleague Jaksic had no bad intentions, you do, so you get a warning. Mrs. Vesna Nadj. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62309	Thank you very much, colleague Jaksic...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62310	I'm sorry, you may, please, the first one was a gentleman, the first one was Mr. Grmoya. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62311	Dear Vice President, you've hurt the Rules of Procedure, you've hurt your role, so you're not here to judge anyone's good or bad intentions, you can possibly assess whether someone hurt the Rules of Procedure or not. So, intention means we don't know whose intentions, I'm also not going to evaluate, I can say that your intentions are bad and that you're not this and this comment that wasn't made in good faith.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62312	Thank you very much. Of course I understand what you're saying, but the answer is next. The intentions referred to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. So she was going to hurt the Rules of Procedure with a replica. Here you go, Mrs. Rasdic. You have a warning, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62313	So, Art. 238, I really have to react. If you characterise my intentions as bad, you certainly demean me as a parliamentary representative, if it is false, and it applies to my work, it is my duty to respond to it because of the information received by Croatian citizens. So it can be characterized exclusively as a good intention and an honorablely reflected job and not as a bad intention, which is not normally such a type of qualification in the domain of your work.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62314	I've already answered that question, your bad intentions have been to hurt the Rules of Procedure because you simply replicated and you knew very well what you were doing, you get a second warning and you can get a third time if you want, but I think we understand each other. It was about the Rules of Procedure, I don't know you as a person, you know it well, no. [[Intruder: Finally.]] Are there any other injuries to the Rules of Procedure? There isn't. Mrs. Vesna Nadj, please. Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62315	Thank you very much. As chairman of the Justice Committee, you led the presentation of the candidate programme for the President or President of the Supreme Court and Judge Dobrinić, in fact, one four hours so that he could represent his programme, which I was actually pleased with, but you've already been blinking and trying to break it, but I'm glad, tell me, why did you let him do it, is it because someone from the hill called you and said Michelle, let it go?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62316	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62317	So, as in all the public calls so far, even in those who failed before they started, I personally didn't receive any calls from the hills, I heard and read in the media who would be or won't be a potential candidate and then we all followed along, of course, what would happen next, who would say. And just from that experience, I said that I had no idea or touch or analyze what Zoran Milanovic said, as Andrej Plenkovic said, but all that was said for starters showed that it was necessary to significantly amend the Law on Courts because what ad hoc solution from 2018 proved absolutely missed this time. As for Mr. Dobrinić's presentation, Mrs. Djurdjevic, who also proved to be a very good candidate and simply, the assessment of us who led that session was that, given the interest and the public and the media and you from the Justice Committee, as well as all other parliamentary representatives and MPs, it should simply be placed on everyone to ask everything they wanted, that people respond and apparently the greatest interest was for those candidates who were announced by President Milanovic as their own.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62318	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. [[Intrudica Jaksic: Thank you.]] Now it's Mr. Rade Simicevic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62319	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Here's hoping that the saga on the election of the Supreme Court president will be completed soon, but here's a chance to remind ourselves of the provisions of the article. The Constitution 116, which prescribed that the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic, with the previous opinion of the General Session of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia and the competent board of the Croatian Parliament, elects and resolves the Croatian Parliament. It turns out that everything is crystal clear and that the proposal from the President of the Republic of Croatia did not come before a public call came. All board meetings and meetings of individual bodies would have had a purpose if the president hadn't announced his candidate before a public call and thus made it clear to all those involved in the election of the Supreme Court president, which he thinks of their work. Here is one of the perceptions of the court we usually have in Croatia. We advocate that the profession be primary in all public calls and that it is the only way we can get out of difficulty and achieve the best results for the welfare of everyone in the community, not only in the judiciary but in all segments of society. And, well, finally, we'll choose the President of the Supreme Court and I hope Mr. Dobronic's choice will be a good choice. The more important issue than the election of the Supreme Court president is how much the Supreme Court's head man can change the appearances that are present in the courts and make them even better. I want to mention some things here. Unsolved court disputes, unequal caselaw, land-book status, intransparentity to the conscious tightening of proceedings and the privilege of individual parties in the process. I remember when I was still the headmaster of the school, that's an example from practice, it was a failure to pay off a regression, so it was a matter of litigation. You have decisions that were for and against the prosecutor. So the same law, same state, different judges, completely different decisions. Then you've got court arguments. One judge offered an argument on pages 3 and ruled in favour of the prosecutor, and another argument on page 18 against the prosecutor. Is this an example of good practice and should we avoid such practice? Also, you have examples of a judge in Pula condemning the same, same case for, in Varazdin v, Osijek for etc., these things should not actually happen. I don't want here in any way to hurt or disrespect anyone from the judicial profession. The vast majority are responsible and professional people in their business only as a user of services from practice I convey my misunderstanding about such procedures and decisions of individuals. Whether the President, the election of the President of the Supreme Court in the light of his obligations and responsibilities, and on the basis of the provisions of the Constitution and the Law on Courts will provide for a fundamental task of the Supreme Court, uniform application of law and equality for all stakeholders in the process. The situation in Croatia compared to the world and the EU is somewhere in the middle, and we must indeed seek to improve this situation even better. And why is that? Because our courts still don't have the authority of courts in Denmark, Norway, Sweden, the United States and many judgments are being questioned. It is certainly not good for the trust in courts and the creation of legal order and security. The other day it was on TV if you remember famous athlete Marion Jones she was taking doping, she was actually convicted very briefly and immediately, she immediately went to law enforcement. It might take too long for us. God gave this election of the Supreme Court president to be a turning point and soon regain confidence Croatian people in the legal order. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62320	Thank you very much, Mr. Simičević. you have replicas, however. [[- Okay. - Okay.]] Mrs. Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62321	Dear counterpart Simicevic, you said that numerous verdicts are being questioned and that this is not good. I'll agree with you on a concrete verdict that I'm going to ask you about. Let's say we are currently under reviewing HDZ's inadmissible verdict on corruption. So I'm interested because we could hear, for example, a colleague of Bulja who accused the judiciary of partial politicisation, do you think that this inadmissible verdict against HDZ for corruption was actually part of a politically-organized process or that the judiciary was not doing its job well. If that's what you think, do you think he is, then, who do you think is responsible for that verdict against HDZ? Or if you think that the court has done a good job and made a good judgment if you expect the Supreme Court to confirm that verdict, and we will no longer have this situation that you yourself have criticised that numerous court rulings are being questioned, which is not good for the state of the Croatian judiciary.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62322	Thank you, thank you. Here you go, Mr. Simicevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62323	I thank my colleagues, otherwise I don't comment on court proceedings that are under way, so we'll wait for the situation to develop and see what the final decision will be.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62324	Now it's Mr. Nikola Grmoy, the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62325	Dear colleague, so you said that the public call was actually compromised in that first procedure because the president passed that public call so before that public call happened, he pushed a certain candidate. But we have also talked about this exhaustively, colleague Selak Rasdic had the situation that the prime minister himself admitted that he had conducted certain phone calls before all public calls and that there would be no problem if President Milanovic agreed with the candidate with whom he made the phone call. So, what's now, I'd like you to tell me, which is an important public call or a previous conversation with the prime minister. So, I'd like you to explain that to me because you complained that some had pushed certain candidates past a public call. So what's important about the phone conversation with the prime minister or the public call?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62326	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62327	Thank you. My dear colleague, that's your perception of these things. I actually know when a public invitation was called to elect the Supreme Court before it was announced that the president of the state proposed his candidate which actually compromised the very meaning and the existence of a public call and that is the only reason why it went into the repeat of the second procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62328	Mr. Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62329	Thank you very much. My colleague Simičević, here in this part of your debate, you wondered whether these judgments that will happen in the same cases would be the same or not, whether what was presented in the program will happen. My opinion is that they will. This unanimous support to a man, probably not only honors him, he knows that he will take over a large part of the burden where first the politicians who will vote for him may be accusing him of anything bad that will happen again in that judiciary, may be guilty again. And in that part where it's good it won't be deserved because that's not how the code works. So not only will he become president, he may be willing or unwilling to take on a great burden for himself. If in any case he didn't know anything, he could always come to his colleagues and ask him for advice because he knows everything. From oil derivatives, through paedophiles to judgment can solve, there are solutions for everything, and if he doesn't know...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62330	Let's not, please, Mr. Boris, let's not provoke each other, it goes on forever. I know you've been the object of provocation, but this one, however, is now reciprocating with the same measure. Please. Here are your answers.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62331	Thank you, dear colleague. So that I think we are at a turning point now, that by electing the President of the Supreme Court we can make a huge step, that we can reach the level of trust of the Croatian man in the Croatian judiciary and I hope that this will go in that direction. And the fact that some colleagues and colleagues always have a spare position is actually their choice, and it's not mine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62332	Pavić, who Pavić, you, Mr. Pavić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62333	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleague. So here's how you interpret that all day the opposition claims that the law should be broken, so the whole day of the opposition claims that the law should be violated if it wasn't for the public calling of the farce, but it was prescribed by law and that HDZ was guilty of it. The law makes it clear that the distribution is how the Supreme Court judge is elected, that the ruling majority and president should be agreed on and, of course, it is normal for them to discuss it. The candidate, to deny this thesis, candidate Ksenija Turkovic, of course, talks before a public call, but the procedure is prescribed by law, and that is that these people have to apply for an invitation, and no one happier than to apply for a professor. Turk. I was a student representative, she was a proctor would be a very handsome candidate, but very clearly HDZ respected the law, and the whole day of recovery requires HDZ that the law not be respected, is that normal?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62334	Thank you very much. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62335	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague for his orders. 116. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is clear and I think if one can object to something that cannot be objected to by the HDZ or the ruling majority in this case. What was here was the object of stumbling is actually a statement by the President of the Republic before the public tender saw the light of day.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62336	Thank you. Mr. Shashin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62337	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleague. We need to talk about the facts here, and the fact is that the insistence of the Prime Minister is that the procedure is respected, or that candidates for the Supreme Court have to apply for a public tender, has led us to the situation that we have today a candidate who we hear a great majority even for moments to say euphorically support. And instead of now acknowledging that fact as some big step, individuals are again trying to predict that it's the result of the pressure, that we've been brought in I don't know the wall, etc., that we had to do it. I'd like to hear your comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62338	Thank you very much. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62339	Thank you. Yes, there was indeed crystal clear here and the Prime Minister's position of Mr. Andrej Plenkovic and the HDZ Club, but we have a war of media where everyone can write things and in fact some people read certain lies, and they don't listen to what is said in places where they should be spoken either in the Government or in the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia. And I believe that indeed Mr. Plenkovic has done everything possible to get the election of the Supreme Court president, but we know who is proposing the president, the election of the judge, it is the President of the Republic and simply he has his position, he has his own opinion, but apparently he has now come to his own when a public call is called that this story will now be over.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62340	Thank you. Mr. Whiteman.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62341	Thank you very much. Dear colleague. I will agree with some of your allegations, or the majority you said, and criticising the situation in the judiciary. So irregularities, injustices, the privilege of certain people, the inequality of judicial practice, the slowness in numerous cases, your personal lack of understanding of certain proceedings, courts have no authority etc., etc. My question to you is, who is, or what political option is in your opinion responsible for this situation in the judiciary and when did it start? Thank you very much and please give me a concrete answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62342	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62343	Thank you. I said that there are excellent and excellent judges in the judiciary, most of them are such, anomalies appear everywhere in the family, so that I don't speak wider and more throughout the country. The state is complex and certainly needs a lot of problems to fix the system. With the election of the President of the Supreme Court, I believe that we can take one step to ensure that some of the bad phenomena that were that we would eliminate them and give the Croatian judiciary a better direction. Whoever's guilty and who's not, you can answer that, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62344	He has a violation of Mr. Whiteman's Rules of Procedure, please. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62345	I said how can I answer that and you can answer who's to blame.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62346	I asked you, you said nothing's wrong, and who's to blame?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62347	Wait, why don't you go get some coffee and have a cup of coffee over there and discuss it?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62348	He didn't give me a concrete answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62349	You're the one who hurt the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62350	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62351	And you gave the wrong one? Then let's move on. Mrs. Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62352	Thank you very much. Dear colleague. You've been talking about unequal court practice and you've set an example from the school system you're coming from, and I'm going to give you a health example now. It is an inadequate calculation of the overtime for doctors and the 9.12.2019. it is a clear decision of the Supreme Court that goes in favour of doctors. However, the practice was such that health directors did not respect the decisions of first instance courts, so they were complaints, so unnecessary debts at the expense of lawyers, courts, etc., so instead of knowing that the Supreme Court's decision should be respected. Why am I saying that? I also believe that what Judge Dobronic said is that we should actually respect decisions and have some legal order and respect what some kind of roof institution says, and not then put costs into the health system and all of us. I have to say the last few months have made deals. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] but anyway [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much.]] The last year and a half have been a mess. [[Intruder Radin: Mrs. Maric.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62353	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62354	To thank my colleagues. I didn't hear you very well, people were talking. So, yeah, what's important in the judiciary? In the judiciary, it is important to create a critical mass of trust in individual judges and individual courts. We may not be in the best situation right now, but I believe that the time ahead is actually going to solve a lot of dilemmas. After all, we are a young democracy, for some things it takes 200 years, not just 30 years to end. So I believe that we will take a step and that we will really live in a country where we will no longer have such discussions when it comes to the Croatian judiciary, regardless of what I think continues in the Croatian judiciary there are a large majority of people who are excellent, who are honest, who are quality, who are Congratulations and do your job. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62355	Thank you very much. Mr. Beljak, there's a reason for the break. Stay here because... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62356	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Club of Assembly Representatives of the HSS and the Workers' Front, and thanks to you and your procedure, or your unequal criteria, where you have warned me several times that I have to put on a mask, and on the other hand, my colleague, here he is, now putting on a mask, now he's recognized himself, so you haven't seen him. So it speaks of you and your inequality of your criteria, so you act exactly like the Croatian judiciary. When it comes to condemning a white man, a bull, a bush, then you're the first, and when you need your colleagues from the ruling majority, you don't see them. Here I am looking at a good 20 minutes without a mask. You think I don't mind? Well, we all do, and so he's the only one who has that privilege in Parliament not to wear a mask. Therefore, we will consider further whether these masks are needed at all. Either we wear them all or no one.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62357	Mr. Beljak, I understand the depth of what you're saying, but I really haven't seen the gentleman, and I have to give you a warning because it has nothing to do with the agenda point. ... With the agenda point, it doesn't matter, and otherwise you can only ask for a break in terms of the agenda point, so you have a warning because you didn't ask for this break for the agenda point. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] What? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go. Here you go. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Wait a minute, it was before Mrs. Devereaux. Maric, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62358	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, I am now taking the opportunity, you say that you are trying to hold order, some you see, some you don't see, I was setting up a replica of my colleague Simicevic, there was a marble in which you participated and you didn't respond to it, neither my colleague heard me nor I heard myself, therefore, please and appeal, so Article. 238, 237 to this, in the future, you have a little uniform practice of maintaining order at this session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62359	Is this about the marble? Is this about the marble? Didn't I react to the jam? Okay. As I would say, I could react 100 ways now, but I will receive your criticism. The second time it's gonna be, I'm gonna react and I'm not gonna give you a warning, even though it's all very atypical. Mr. Bauk, let's see what he says.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62360	Thank you. I'm sure, Mr. Vice President, you won't give me a warning either. So I think you're too strict. 238 or which one, that you said too harshly 238 As for the reminder, I therefore believe that by giving the warning to my colleague, Beljak, you violated the Rules of Procedure and interpreted his speech too strictly, that he had nothing to do with the subject, he mentioned the judiciary and precisely the unequal criteria of the subject of the judiciary, so that the reminder, I believe, was too harsh and not good for freedom of speech in the Assembly... [[- Okay. - Okay.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62361	Mr. Bauk, you have a warning, what you really said, it has nothing to do with anything. You're getting a warning. Uh, because Mr. Beljak knows very well that it had nothing to do with the agenda point, and I can talk now about math with you and tell the judiciary, the word of the judiciary, and then you'll tell me it has to do with the agenda point. ... Please, please, and now and now this, I'm giving five minutes off,... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] No, I'm working, I'm taking five minutes off so we can all calm down together, and then... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The Dark Tarrits will have their own replica. Here you go. ... I'm sorry, but that's a little over the top. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It's 2:00 P.M. - Mrs. Crescent. Anka Mrak-Taritash has a replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62363	Do you want me to lift up this breach of the Rules of Procedure for you, or should I start with a replica?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62364	What? You told the Republic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62365	It's a replica. I'll try to be loud enough. I'm absolutely calm. So, in your presentation you talked about the subject of justice and I can agree with a lot of what you diagnosed. Each of us has some judgments that leave him doubt at the level of perception or at the level of perception. One of my favorite convictions was when the Bear dog was convicted who shouldn't bark at a certain time but only bark as the judge said. But I'd go back to what's topic. The subject is the appointment of the President of the Supreme Court and we have witnessed that after the debate was held on the Committee on Justice of colleagues who, therefore from the party you belong to, were unable to vote but needed another time, then it took time, so there was a long time until you brought a position in your club, so I wonder why it was so and what was happening here? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62366	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62367	Thank you. My colleague, you are now asking me to enter the heads of my colleagues who were on that committee and why they didn't vote. You actually have judges who have a specific subject and then it takes them a while to have a decision matured in their heads and to write the decision later. So these decisions were made in time and the HDZ Club came out on time with its proposal and I don't think there's really anything controversial about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62368	Thank you, too. You don't have any more replicas. And now it's Madam. Anka Dark-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62369	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, dear colleagues and colleagues. The subject of justice is one of those topics that I am very happy to discuss and very often speak in the assembly. I'm saying because the judiciary in Croatia is a problem, it needs to be realistic and I'm willing to admit it to myself. It seems to me that more and more people in Croatia understand and are ready to say it publicly. I have to admit I remember some not so long ago when people weren't ready to say it publicly no matter what they thought. This public willingness to face a problem is an important first step towards finding a solution, but we are far from any real solution or change, and we need a real solution and real change. This also shows statistics that I often quote. According to official EU data, we are a country with the least trust of citizens, businesses and judges themselves in the judiciary. Our own judges believe that, in fact, more than half of them, that the criteria for progress are not progressing by skill, or knowledge, or quality. In the permanent education of judges we are worse, in digitising and informing citizens as well. But the most visible consequence of all of this is although we have a large number of judges on the population and we spend a lot on the judiciary compared to GDP, we are among the worst in terms of the backlogs and the length of the proceedings, and so for years and 10 years. And in his opening statement on the Committee on Justice candidate for Supreme Court President, Judge Radovan Dobrinić cited these very problems, the number of pending cases, the slowness in work, the quality or not the quality of the work of judges, their honesty and the general loss of trust in citizens. Mr. Dobronic, I must admit, there are interesting theories as to why we have so many lags. It is not only the judges' fault, but the consequence is that the unorganised state, state-owned companies, local and regional self-government, companies, banks and citizens themselves are constantly creating litigation. It is very easily possible that this is true too, our systems are indeed generally undeveloped, and the way in which we settle disputes before court proceedings are too weak. Candidate Dobrinić also pointed out problems with performances, public notaries and ways in which the executive procedures are conducted. And there he's probably right. The performances and public notebooks are a painful combination for many Croatian citizens. We don't have the right to protect the believers, nor are procedures correct to the debtors, especially the small ones who are in charge of directing because when you owe 20 million things go a little differently, but how can these problems be solved by the President of the Supreme Court? Candidate Dobrinić strongly opposes any norms and measuring the work and efficiency of judges. With all due respect, but I'm convinced that some kind of monitoring of work and efficiency must be done. I accept that perhaps the current way is not the best and that it needs to be changed, but some system of measurement of efficiency and quality of work should exist. The independence of the judiciary does not mean and must never mean independence from quality and efficiency. The truth is that the problem of our judiciary is not just the work of the judiciary in a narrow sense. We certainly also need to change various laws and new organizations and other things, but here we are discussing the President of the Supreme Court who can neither pass laws nor can many of the things they ask him, which the public thinks he can do. No one expects the Supreme Court president to have a magic wand that can wipe out everything bad with one move. What it can do is start the first day at work with serious changes where it can carry them out. I will support candidate Dobronic, but I am sorry that we have turned this election into a farce that we believe in our judiciary must have done damage. And I especially must admit that we have failed to choose one great candidate who, apart from expertise and knowledge, had yet another great advantage for me. She wasn't a member of caste judges. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62370	Okay, I, uh, Mrs. Peovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62371	Here, colleague Mrak Taritash, I'm interested in it so we've already heard one 20 times I won't exaggerate here that the thesis that's most important is this perception of corruption. I'm interested in what you say about this information that China is 15 places below us on this perception of corruption and one of the world's greatest economies or what I tried to explain in my debate that Italy was at the top of economic development right at the moment when it had the most corrupt government and the most corrupt politicians and when the perception of the Italian government was extremely low. I am not saying, of course, that the judiciary is not important and that we do not have to address the choice of fair and professional and unsuspecting, but can we still put in the context of what the judiciary can do in comparison with economic growth and economic development, which is something else.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62372	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62373	Thank you very much for this question. So, the subject of China I have to admit all of us with big eyes are looking at this slow inflation that is approaching us and it will be interesting to look at this big one, and here I have to refer to this big Chinese giant in construction that currently has 100 thousand unsold apartments and the question is what will happen and the way that this will have an impact I am sure of other EU countries. We about justice, therefore, one thing is, we often talk about justice, but it's good to see how citizens have a perception of justice, how investors, when we're already investors and businessmen, have a perception of justice. They all estimate that our situation in our justice system is such that it's always questionable and that investment. So without investment and investors, there is no development in certain, so I'm not just talking about the sector that I understand and I'm talking about construction, but there's no development in everything else. And when they have a bad perception Then the judiciary must be one of the painful branches. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62374	Thanks, you don't have any more replicas. Now it's Mr. Whiteman's turn to give his speech without a mask. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62375	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, my colleague Simicevic missed the answer to my question, so I will try it myself. When we talk about the Croatian judiciary and all these problems they are not of course since yesterday, they have been going on for a very long time. And you know who's guilty, you know very well who's guilty, who spent the cutting of the most skilled people in the Croatian judiciary in the early '90s who turned out to be very well planned and well thought out. Not only is this happening, the main prey of politics that inaugurated its judiciary, its judge was the robbery, the privatisation robbery of the '90s that passed the note of the law. By law, this home with 2/3 of the majority where HDZ had the majority that passed the law and had an extended hand in the Croatian judiciary that implemented these laws and legalized an unprecedented century-long robbery in the early 1990s. The zero products of all this bad in the judiciary are that almost all judges are today closely tied to the ruling party, or HDZ. I know at least 10 of them who openly said that they were not close, not members, but close to HDZ would never become Presidents of the courts, etc., etc. You know the one who keeps telling himself I'm honest, I'm honest, I'm honest, he's usually the biggest thief. When a person calls for the independence of the judiciary, he speaks to the government and insists on the independent judiciary, impersonally, independently, independently of that, you know that this is exactly the one behind the judiciary that has not only been independent but is exclusively dependent on the rulings for the past 30 years. That's a fact. I hope that the choice which is otherwise a great victory for Zoran Milanovic and I must congratulate him on it whatever the HDZ gentlemen think and now it's as if it were a deal and so, not that it's 1:0, and the shooter is Zoran Milanovic, very clearly. Of course you will not admit it but you will say it is like this, it is now, now all the expensive brothers agree, but you are not defeated by Zoran Milanović and I think this choice is just a small, small start, a small cube, a small wheel in the changes that will follow in the coming years, and unfortunately not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62376	Please. And now you, you're done, you've had more time. Mrs. Shaline, Mr. Shashin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62377	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleague Beljak, given the fact that you are already a long line in politics, even with the judiciary you have a long number of years of experience, etc., I would like to ask you if you can pull one parallel with the situation in the judiciary today or these years and 20, 21 years ago, perhaps you can point out some processes that are happening in connection with this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62378	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62379	You mean to provoke me, you who are a member of the organization, a cult that is now awaiting a final verdict for the robbery of state money from state-owned companies through the Fimi Media. You mean to provoke me, so I'm for you not a petty offender, I'm for you a crumb of whatever you do. Not only me, but all Croatian criminals are little babies for you from HDZ. So you destroyed Croatia, you destroyed Croatia's future. You want me to talk about banks, you want me to talk about every segment of Croatian society you've managed to destroy. And you're calling me for this one affair in your life, that you have the right to do it, that you can laugh, but you know I'm funny too, and I think it's funny. That's when an elephant mocks how big it is, that's about it. So, pathetic that you can't be poorer, good thing you don't have anything else.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62380	It's still, it's still a violation of the Rules of Procedure on my part because he said no, now I'm going to give the word to Mr. Habib, but you can't tell one MP, call him, I won't even repeat how you called him, you can't do that.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62381	I called him?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62382	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62383	Remind me, remind me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62384	I'm sorry about what you said in the end. I won't remind you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62385	I don't know what I said.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62386	You know very well what you said in the end, in the end. But Mr. Habian is earlier, so you have a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62387	I don't get what you said... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62388	Because you said yes, you said that... is poorer that the poorer he can't be. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm sorry, but that's... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62389	No, I said it was pathetic of you and them.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62390	No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62391	And please, Mr. Furin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62392	I listened well, ask them. Mr. Habian, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62393	Thank you very much, Vice President. Although you've already reacted to the Rules of Procedure, I wanted to react before you, Art. 238th century 1st indent 5th, hence the demeaning of the parliamentary representative, but not only the parliamentary representative, specifically, but all of us here from the HDZ who are present and who are not present. I know a colleague that the truth hurts you, but in this way he treats and talks to parliamentarians and representatives of the HDZ ranks, I don't think it's really appropriate and can be a shame on you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62394	Mr. Habian, Mr. Habian, you've done some damage to the Rules of Procedure before Mr. Beljak personally insulted, which is the only one, and what you said doesn't belong to the Rules of Procedure, so I'm giving you a heads-up. It's a rough day. - Mrs. Crescent. Mrs. Katarina Peovic, you have a replica and a violation of the Rules of Procedure, I don't know, both of you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62395	First the breach of the Rules of Procedure, then the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62396	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62397	238, this is about demeaning Cresa Beljak's representative for two reasons. One is because you didn't hear what he said in his presentation, I think you misread what he said. And secondly, you did not listen to what was said in the replica to your colleague, Beljak, and that was actually a warning to me. And I'll explain some other things in the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62398	No, this is, I'm sorry, this is, this is a replica and injury, and a breach of the Rules of Procedure, which is why you have a warning. I've heard very well, I've listened very well.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62399	You didn't hear a good fellow... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62400	Excuse me, you want to watch, you want to watch, you want to watch... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62401	I didn't understand.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62402	No, no, wait a minute.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62403	And who are you and who are you? ... Is she with you, are you talking to me? [[/Speakers speak at the same time, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62404	I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm very good...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62405	You haven't heard very well from your colleague Furdin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62406	Some order, we have to stick to some order, and now you've got an acting class that I understand.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62407	What?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62408	You know very well what you said. You're pathetic, and if you couldn't be poorer, that's what you said, and I listened very well, and that's direct, and that's a direct insult.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62409	Is that an insult?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62410	If this stenogram shows that it's not true, I will personally apologize to you. Okay, we got a deal? And Mrs. McNally. Peovic has a breach of the Rules of Procedure... No, no, there's been a breach of the Rules of Procedure before, and I've already given that notice, and now you have a replica, and you can say whatever you want. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62411	Okay, thank you, we're not going back to what he said. I would refer to what was said in the debate. I think the good point is that it's not in the debate in the past, in the replicas, or in the debates mentioned, I think it's crucial, which is conversion and privatisation. So the first sin of this country, in which this state is created, which cannot simply nivell whatever we say and whatever we do, means we always have to go back to how this came about. And basically what I want to put as a framework for what I've asked in my debate is whether we can talk about justice and justice if we start with something like this. So first and foremost conversion and privatisation should be annulled. Most critics will say it doesn't make sense today, so it's been very many years, but almost everyone agrees that it should be annulled.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62412	Thank you very much. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62413	Yes, esteemed colleague Peovic, it is impossible to undo, even President Josipovic said. And why is it impossible? That's exactly why it's done according to the law. The laws, according to the laws passed by this HS, because HDZ had a majority and by judges, or judicial system that delegated HDZ, point. That's why you can't undo it. So, if we want to be, respect some legal norms, then that's how it is. However, there is a parallel of some in history to be talked about, some things are also terrible things in history, not in Croatia, but also in Croatia carried out according to the laws, and then historically they did not get legitimacy. If it's gonna be a privatisation case, I'm not sure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62414	- Mrs. Crescent. Dalia Oreshkovic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62415	Comrade Beljak, I don't know if you listened to my presentation on behalf of the club when I said that Radovan Dobrinić hit HDZ when he pointed out the government's responsibility for failing to liquidate the factoring companies and collects their assets for the benefit of the state. But at the same time, I think he hit the slap and Zoran Milanovic by being honorable, honest, and not HDZ. Well, since we already support his program, it would be fair to respect his observation that this generalization of the entire judiciary as corrupt or as HDZ demotises those fair and hardworking judges, and yet these are the majority who work in this judiciary. And this criticism, and generalization at all, is dangerous when it comes from the ranks of political circles. It is also one form of inappropriate control, especially when it comes from those politicians who when they were in power had no knowledge or courage to make even symbolic changes, and now they would actually be wise to keep their mouths shut.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62416	Here you go, Mr. White.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62417	I didn't realize, colleague Oreshkovic, what's going on with me? I've never been in power.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62418	He won't let me answer Mr. Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62419	No, you can't forgive me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62420	I don't get it. She can explain the question to me if she's already asked. Is that what I'm doing? If it comes to me, it's the wrong address.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62421	That's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62422	If it comes to me, it's the wrong address, if Mr. Milanovic goes, then you could talk about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62423	Don't answer, Mr. Whitey, don't answer the provocations.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62424	Now this is how I'm gonna answer my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62425	Don't answer the provocations.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62426	No, I don't answer to my colleague Oreshkovic. You know, fellow Oreshkovic, when I tell someone he's miserable or when I say something pathetic about him, it's a minor injury to such a level that he needs a guard to pick me up. And when they've been getting to me for years that I'm a thief, that I'm a criminal, that's nothing, that's normal. See, this is about HDZ, they can do anything, and you can't do anything, I can't do anything, and Zoran Milanovic couldn't do anything if we're going to do it right.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62427	Mr. Whiteman, thank you very much. Thank God it's the last replica, thank you. Now it's Mrs. Romana Nikolic who has her own debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62428	I thank the Vice President of the Parliament. Today we are on the agenda after the third public call to elect the President of the Supreme Court, we hope that by choosing candidates we will end this saga and finally accept the job because, as I said in the opening statement after 21 years of the existence of an independent state perception of the public is a mistrust in the judicial system. We have witnessed spectacular arrests and detentions of USKOK, which later ended in court ribbons, long-standing processes that ended in the end with the escape across the border. No wonder our citizens don't trust the system. Eurobarometer survey for 2021 It also does not contribute to us and shows us that we are the most corrupt EU Member State and that we are at the beginning when it comes to the perception of the independence of courts and judges. It is clear that corruption cannot be eradicated overnight, but it is a worrying mistrust of citizens in the institutions of government. The main reason is the involvement of governments or politicians in the judiciary, then pressure from economic and other interests, which is unfortunately the perception of the public of our judiciary, and it must somehow end. We are aware that only one man cannot change the consciousness of the public overnight, but it may be that small wheel that will trigger a change in the establishment of order in our judiciary. By studying candidate Dobrinić's programme, except that he has met the basic conditions of a public call and has run for law-expected procedure, man is willing to introduce changes to the system. We must not forget that 2013 opposed the banks and made judgment side by side of the users of the damaged Swiss savings. It's one of those things that I listed what we need in the system to improve independence itself, knowledge, but it's certainly willful. Furthermore, in his presentation of the programme, he also pointed to the problem of the number of pending cases, the slowness in work, the objection to the quality of the work of judges and their honesty and the loss of trust in the judiciary. He also spoke of establishing a fairer assignment to judges, the key to the rule of law and democracy to elect an independent person in the lead. If we want to, and we really want to root out corruption in the judiciary, the policy must remove the Stigm from it to influence the judiciary and decide according to the criteria of expertise, integrity must choose an independent person at the head of the judicial authority.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62429	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Nikola Grumoja. Here you go. He's gone, he's losing his right to speak, so the next one's going to be a respected representative of Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62430	This is the end of a series that started somewhere early in the year with the famous name Badger and Snotty. The election of the President of the Supreme Court has led to tectonic disturbances in the relations between the President and the Prime Minister, the President of the Republic and the Constitutional Court, the President of the Republic and the Judicial System, and ended as the President of the Republic wanted. Thus, once everything that has happened has been analysed, a number of points can be highlighted. First of all, the old people who said don't fix what worked properly, so the parliamentary majority began to amend the Law on Courts, although there were no major problems in its application and application of the constitutional norm. The President of the Supreme Court was elected by political agreement between the President of the Republic or the President of the Republic and the parliamentary majority. The president of the Republic has shown that he does not agree to scheduled tenders, that he does not agree to this syntagm with masks and wigs, and in the end we found out that the Prime Minister actually wanted to negotiate about a candidate without a public call, said Mrs. Turkovic. After that, we had an attempt by the Constitutional Court to defend indefensibly where we had a division in the Constitutional Court, we have illogical legal provisions under which a public call is called, and only after that are two elected, politically elected bodies with two firm legitimacys, that is HS and the President of the Republic, to discuss it only afterwards. And in the end, I have to admit that I'm glad I turned out to be a bad weatherman when I said that we're not going to elect a Supreme Court president in this conference. It may have been a little tactful, however, to draw attention to the need to agree with the President of the Republic and Prime Minister, although their relations at the time described at the outset were such that few people said that few could have predicted that they would agree. And you see, in the end, they agreed to an honorable exit for both the government and the HDZ who said that we prefer Mrcela, but we don't hate Dobronic either. And so that's the one, that exit in the sense that Mrcela can't be already, so be Dobronic because I'll quote it to the Prime Minister if there's any need as he said at the press, the better probably won't answer. So at this point, we're giving a vote for the best one that's reported now, or you're going to make yourself known in the foreseeable future. And okay. The program Mr. Dobronic gave is good. His work so far, and especially one of the judgments most mentioned, gives rise to the confidence that this duty will behave well. The result of the vote at the Supreme Court where Mrs. Djurdjevic received 1, and Mr. 4 votes reminded me as if he had voted the Supreme Council, not the Supreme Court. So homogeneous even in the Soviet Union were not top Soviets and this, and to conclude with a little bit of this autorony. Dobrinić won even less votes at the Supreme Court than Pedja won at our first club, so you can see that he swam out, so he'll come out of Pedja. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62431	We've got one replica of the esteemed representative of the Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62432	Thank you very much, Vice President. You mentioned a respected colleague that the provisions, I assume you were referring to the Law on Courts or that they are not fully clear to you, so I am now interested in where this Copernicus turn happened since 2018, Mr. President of the SDP now Mr. Grbin, the president of your party, said that these are good changes, that praises are worth changing, is that also said then by former Justice Minister Mr. Orsat Miljenic, who is now the head of the Office of the President of the State, and I am curious about where the misunderstanding has now occurred with you, is it again some new conflict within you, or how these provisions are suddenly unclear, and in 2018 you had words of praise for the same provisions of the Law on Courts. So here, if you can explain?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62433	Dear Representative Bauk, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62434	We were under, in 2018, under the impression that Mr. Sessa had been elected so that the president suggested him on Wednesday, and the parliament elected him on Thursday. And we thought it couldn't get any worse. And as you can see, we haven't changed our minds, but the future has denied us. This was, however, the most transparent choice of Supreme Court presidents. Many relationships between people are then a little worse than they were before, but at the end of the few months only the final result will be remembered, and he will be that it ended up again after the president. And what you can do is not good with horns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62435	Thank you very much. The next one will be spoke by respected representative Marin Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62436	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament Mr. Reiner, Mr. Bukarica, respected colleagues, colleagues, Croatian peoples, Judge Dobranić, it is a pity that we had a tape about the election of the Supreme Court president who has crossed every border of good taste in the media. Underneath the impact, the entire atmosphere does not go away with some desirable environment of some good positive constructive working atmosphere. Okay, maybe I'm too much of a political romantic who dreams that even the most difficult situations can be bridged by conversation, but about that in another conversation. Our judiciary is a big problem, you'd dare say maybe even the biggest one. Be careful if citizens do not believe those who need to make righteous judgments, protect the powerless and oppressed, threatened, and also punish all those who do harm how they expect them to always nod their heads to those who always ask for another, another, and a new opportunity. The problems of corruption and nepotism in the judiciary are in one way a reflection of the mentality and spiritual state of the individual, but also of the entire nation. We heard today in the morning work I don't know exactly from which fellows 730 million kuna the state envisioned for judicial reform, digitisation and all other processes. I hope that we as citizens will find, so I'm not only speaking as a representative now, but as a citizen of all that is necessary for reforms and our hearts because in vain all the technology, be careful without any pathetic, which means all the technology if you're a failure, which means all the processes, if you're a corrupt man, then you can have everything secure, but you'll find ways to cheat the system, so change your heart, and I'm telling you seriously, I think that's just as important. Now who should worry about it, I don't know, but I think personal responsibility is very important here. So, Supreme, the Supreme Court president doesn't have a magic wand that's clear to all of us, but he has power, he has power. The President of the Supreme Court may be the one who will be the new freshness so much needed in the stale air of our Croatian judiciary. Judge Radovan Dobrović without some Messianic desire, we Croats suffer for it, we always expect will come and will now, will descend and here it will all flourish. Well, it doesn't work exactly like that, the process, we have to go through our desert, but his appointment can happen that our society goes stronger in maturing the process itself that we have in the judiciary. Judges should not work under pressure, especially under political pressure. Judge Dobrinić, I very much like it, insists on a return of confidence in the judiciary. On the return of trust in judgment. He considers this one of the most important items in his programme. In this time of superficiality, in this time of irresponsibility of the spoken word, I like it very much to have someone come and say hold to honor, hold to their word, hold to honesty. He called it just order if I'm not mistaken, so just order, just order. Imagine how nice it would be if we looked into each other's eyes and trusted each other. We don't have to agree on anything, but when you see someone you say, these are colleagues from the SDP Club, I don't know from the HDZ and the left block, and that's what he says he lives like that, he thinks, that's what he says. I don't want a Croatian politician who says one thing, the other one works, the third one thinks, the fourth one steals. I don't want that kind of Croatia. I don't want Croatia where you don't know, you're talking to a man if there's below, whether he's prepared one, another, third plan, fourth blow this one. I don't want to. I want Croatia where everyone will represent their ideals, their beliefs, and then the people will either recognize it or not, my God, if we are condemned never to recognize what to say to you, thank God, but live your beliefs, live your beliefs. So, according to existing research, mistrust in the judiciary is one of the important reasons why young people leave Croatia. And we need to change each and every one of us starting with ourselves. And I will end up with Pope Franjo, says a corrupt person is a person who sends out the unpleasant smell of a rotten heart that is based on exploitation, decay and great social injustice. So I hope this is going to be the first step here in our country, in society according to here a reduction, a reduction in corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62437	We have, stay here for a moment, we have a few replicas. He's the first respected representative of Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62438	Dear colleague, Mr. Miletic, we have seen that throughout the four months when criticisms were referred to Mr. Dobrinić that they were actually well-hidden critics in actually one comatical anonymity and in his presentation to the Committee of Justice. We too had a certain skepticism, but on the other hand, the way he responded with one patience, humility, he actually gave a lecture to all those who listened to him. And certain topics that were interesting actually concern small people, bills issued, fees, so all those things that the high lawyers think are not important to the little man Mr. Dobrinić has just exhibited in the presentation of his programme. I've seen similar things in your presentations where you're really fighting for little people, these little problems where many people think they're irrelevant. Well, here's your comment on that.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62439	Dear Representative Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62440	Thank you, colleague Troscott. I'd almost say what we're burned to, when someone normal me happy here comes someone who's up high but who's normal and who's going to do what they can as a man in all their limitations. Of course, none of us are perfect, we all have flaws and wounds and palsy and weakness, we're people of flesh and blood, but here I kind of like to trust people and I love my colleague Troscott always listen to people. So, I've changed my mind a million times, I think it's good if, I think people who never change their minds so I'd be afraid to drink coffee with them because that would mean they're off, that they're only in one of their own, that they live in one of their own worlds. So what I personally heard, what I heard through my colleagues, what I heard through my colleagues who listened to Judge Dobrinić it's really promising and now our Bozo has said today here we will see in four years how a man will work, who is happier than us to make it very good.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62441	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62442	Thank you very much. Col. Miletic, the cancer of the wounded is the judiciary in Croatia, not only in terms of youth leaving and mistrust of young people in the rule of law, but what destroyed the economy, we see that in Zagreb the only company has to manage waste i.e. it has to carry out these activities, it has these capacities because the competition has been destroyed. So it's monopolized, but it's never too late to fight for justice. Al is a fact, I have said it countless times so far and unfortunately again in the Croatian judiciary as the main driver of Croatia's development in every sense, the key demographic measure is the workplace. Because of justice today, we have this problem because it's an important bag. The bag is the most important in the judiciary, and that's the problem. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62443	Dear Representative Miletic. Thank you very much. Dear Representative Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62444	Thank you, colleague Bulj, here you are on the social left I would say completely so I will quote to you Pope Francis, who is also on the left. According to Pope Francis, corruption does not represent a collection of sins, however severe, it is not one of the vices of the heart, corruption is qualitatively different evil, it does not mean that it is a bad, corrupt man becoming contagious for the whole society, sin is forgiven, and corruption cannot be forgiven. The one first of all needs to be cured, I made a little joke, but it's a good thing we have a normal relationship at least we're in the counsel club, we're like reinforced concrete. So, fellow Bulj, yes, a huge problem, and if we don't deal with corruption, we'll have less and less of our young people in Croatia who are in charge, one of the main reasons why they're leaving, and that's why I'm glad that you're, that people chose to be mayor of Sinj to clean up everything down there, and then we'll start from Sinj as a wave all over Dalmatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62445	Thank you. Dear Representative Šimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62446	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Representative, here's a lot we've said about Croatian courts and we've detected some problems, but in your presentation, you've actually put the focus on the morality of the individual man in the community. Are we, as Croats, still trapped in that system in which we were 40 or 50 years old, whether we have achieved EU civilizations and whether the church can influence more than morals, ethics and the integrity of a Croatian man? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62447	Wait a minute, my colleague Miletic and colleague Bulj picked up Well, he's taking back this breach of the Rules of Procedure, so go ahead and answer it. [[Intruder: Pulling, pulling, pulling.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62448	Thank you, colleague, for asking. I really think a few things, first of all, that we don't talk about it, so we don't have to live in the past, but hello people, so we know what the dungeon of the people of Yugoslavia was like. And today, someone's flowering the company, and we know who was good, so those who somehow had a strong national identity or loved God, so they didn't really have flowers, only maybe on the naked island and somewhere else. However, the mental - regulating series “come along, ” as well as today. But I wouldn't know you were saying now it's the South's fault that we're not being honest today and being honest about whether or not it's the system. I think we're 30 years old. in democracy, and I think that everyone today needs to start working on themselves and on their own responsibility. The church definitely needs it and can do a lot more, she's sleeping a little bit now, but I believe she'll wake up soon and she'll make a contribution too.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62449	The next one will speak to the esteemed representative of Vesna Nadj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62450	Thank you, Vice President HS, colleagues and colleagues. We heard on the Justice Committee all candidate and candidate programmes for the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. After all the presentations of the programme for me is Judge Radovan Dobrinić convincingly the best candidate. I am sorry that two presidents from two hills spent through the mud of the previous candidate, a very good candidate, Zlata Djurdjevic, and this should never happen again. In a multi-hour presentation of his programme, Judge Dobrinić gave a deep analysis of the problems in the judiciary, the judiciary that generates most of the problems in the inability to develop Croatian society and to approach developed EU countries, both in respect of human rights and in the development of the economy and the promotion of the investment cycle, as well as in the fight against corruption at all levels. Judge Dobrinić was so deeply immersed in the problems of the Croatian judiciary with regard to the application of European legislation in the Republic of Croatia and came out of the usual framework of diagnosing problems in the Croatian judiciary and the recovery measure to me seem kind of like Dr. House for the diagnosis and treatment of Croatian justice. Col. Bartulica believes that he has not properly diagnosed the absence of lustration, but many very high-quality judges are no longer in the justice system just because they were members of the former communist party regardless of their expertise, experience or ethical integrity. I particularly liked the findings of Judge Dobrinić that the time has come to finally begin with the application of legal criteria and standards on which European legislation and court practice are based because this can only bring progress. I hope his oscillating structures in the judiciary don't obstruct the implementation of his program, and they're brimming his clips. In this new system of justice, judge Dobrinić says, the central question is how to increase the level of legal order, which means to prevent and punish every form of self-will and violence in the way it is, that it creates a sense of legal certainty, predictability and justice for the entire system. I wish Judge Dobronic good luck in that.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62451	We have two replicas, the respected representative Dalia Oreshkovic has the first.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62452	Thank you, dear colleague, and here you have, in some way, touched the previous election when Zoran Milanovic's candidate was Professor Djurdjevic and some other MPs spoke about it today. If the goal here was to give a justifiable criticism to President Zoran Milanovic because he was the one who dragged this candidate through the mud by his wrong move, then I think it was justified to say it here. However, I would like to actually see the fundamental difference between Zlata Djurdjevic as a candidate and Radovan Dobronic as a candidate, so as not to create the impression that he is some sort of backup option. So, his view in the judiciary is fundamentally significantly different from the topics, from the goals, from the values, from the vision of the candidate Djurdjevic, so I'm interested in what is actually the programme and the essence that you support, the one presented by Radovan Dobrinić or what Zlata Djurdjevic was saying?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62453	Honorable representative Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62454	Thank you, dear colleague Oreshkovic. So I think Judge Dobrinic is actually looking from the position of the judge who judges daily in court disputes. My colleague Zlata Djurdjevic more presented her program somehow ex-Catedra, but she also profoundly determined where the problems in the judiciary are. I actually like it more when we look at the parallel and if they were conflicted, I prefer him as one practicalist, here's how much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62455	Dear Representative Pavić, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62456	Counselor, we heard Judge Dobronic's program. We heard Mrs. Dobrinic's program. Golden Djurdjevic. I think both had almost the same goals. The goal was to solve problems in the judiciary and the aim was to make the judiciary independent. That's what's very important to us. It is of paramount importance to us that when the bodies of the prosecution are arrested, when they collect evidence, that these people or factors or factors be condemned after that, rather than that these disputes go into obsolescence. And that's why it's important that this program that was presented here is supported, that we move on with it, and after that, we'll see after a year what he's done and what direction it's going to be.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62457	Honorable representative Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62458	I appreciate the question. You've made a good point. I believe that this election by the Supreme Court president is very much related to future discussions on the anti-corruption strategy because without an ethical system in the public sector, we will not be able to solve problems in the judiciary. I know well that in the former Ministry of Administration and the current Ministry of Justice and Administration, a draft proposal by Zkon on an ethical system in the public sector that has reached the government, but has never been released into further proceedings. I think that should still be put in the process and discuss it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62459	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62460	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Nadj, you told Judge Dobronic that he is a sort of Dr. House, and I'd say that out of your exposure it results in expectations from your side towards him as if he were Superman. I think it would be good if we had more Supermans in the Croatian judiciary to speed things up, but it seems to me that these expectations of Mr. Dobrinic as a candidate for Supreme Court President are a little too large, because it does not depend solely on the president of the Croatian Court of Justice reform but also on some other institutions and elements. But I found it interesting to hear that when you mentioned that some judges who were members of the Communist party had stopped being judges, you said there were many. I'd like you to mention at least some because actually the lustration in Croatia has never been carried out, that's a fact, so I don't know that anyone has stepped down from judicial duty because he was a member of the KPJ.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62461	Honorable representative Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62462	I can't tell you what the judges are now, but the fact that the judiciary after the end of the Homeland War has actually been devastated in some way by firing judges or by not naming new judges who were members of the Communist Party, and that's why it's actually done some damage to the judiciary because there was no continuity in the trial.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62463	And now she will speak to the esteemed representative Dalia Oreshkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62464	My fellow MPs and MPs. I want to tell you directly here what I said to the candidates themselves when they were being questioned by the Justice Committee. 2014 I was present at the plenary session of GRECO, at the time being chaired by Judge Marin Mrcela as representative and president of the Committee on Conflict of Interest. In that plenary session, the report in the 4th evaluation round was discussed, so I had the privilege of hearing directly all the considerations and elaborated reasons which led to those recommendations as they are, among other things, in that part which suggests Croatia to consider and review the election and appointment of the President of the Supreme Court. The model we have is the fact that our policy is not mature to make responsible choices and implement them in a way that does not test political muscles in these selection processes. What it looks like when politics dominates its game, we've had opportunities to see through this circus in the previous two public calls. Because of such actions, because of such irresponsible policies and even more irresponsible politicians, we now have changed the Law on Courts which introduced this public call, the lifespeakers, the candidate's work programmes, and again, we have had one effective situation in which the President of the State in some way and in this procedure said that Radovan Dobronic was his favourite and his candidate before he gave his materials and his opinion to the General Session of the Supreme Court and before giving his opinion to the relevant parliamentary Committee on Justice. I believe that, in this way, the President of the State violated the objective that the provisions of the Law on Courts wanted to achieve, which is that judges are chosen on the basis of some objective and measurable criteria and reasons to convince the citizens that we will have an independent person and that we will be able to control that person through those promises made by that person. So, in some ways, everything that could have a favourable effect for Croatian citizens and for the independence of the judiciary has been offended. However, this goes to political responsibility and to the soul, better say the political irresponsibility of the president of the state. Furthermore, both candidates and Marin Mrcela, as well as Judge Radovan Dobronic, spoke about how politicians refer to the judiciary, especially in that part of which we have the opportunity to hear, which is that all judges, and especially the judges of the Supreme Court, are one click away, one oligarchy that shows autism. Well, here's what I'm going to say is that in the competent states, such rhetoric could be considered a political blow to the independence of the judicial authority, and that in itself is a big problem. I want to thank all the judges, all the candidates who responded to this call because it was precisely because judges who are not HDZ, who are not corrupt, who are doing their job responsibly and honorably, that was in some way the right way to oppose this inappropriate rhetoric that very often comes from politics and by the highest authorities. I think it was an excellently obvious lesson for all of us. They are judges who have stood in defense of the integrity of the judicial authority and anyone who believes that the judicial authority needs someone outside to restore their reputation, morals, and honor simply wrongs. If there are corrupt judges, and there are, if there are HDZ judges, and then there are such judges, to use those wings to locate them, to transfer them, simply remove them from the judicial system because such judges are not the only ones in the justice system. There has also been a lot of talk about the lack of internal control within the justice system, so it must not be avoided that there really are major problems, but these problems need to be addressed structurally, among other things by strengthening control through the powers and roles of the DSV. A complete redesign of that institution should be made for it to be stronger, and two parliamentary deputies who sit so needlessly should be removed from that body to begin with. If politics really has the will to change something, then we need to deal with that part of the task that is in our domain and that would actually be the real support of everything they do in their programme, said Radovan Dobrinić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62465	Thank you very much. We have more replicas, the first respected MP, Miletic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62466	Dear fellow Members, I'm interested in your opinion on whether this appointment can really be this new wave that will then go somewhere and destroy this corruption that has bit us all and is constantly biting us or perhaps too much to expect that man really has a magic wand even though it's one extremely high function, here's how you look at it at the end and as a waist and the whole story?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62467	Dear representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62468	So there are no fairies, no tooth fairy, no Santa Claus, no magic wands in any state function. From Radovan Dobrinić, we will get what is in his work programme and promised on condition that those who support him did not sit on their ears, provided that they really heard what needs to be changed in each of the individual branches of rights that he touched quite in detail in his presentation. And thirdly, the fact is that for the realisation of his programme there must be a certain synergy for both states and policies, but also for citizens and the economy themselves. To convince a very extensive program in 30 seconds is really not possible, but if we give ourselves the effort and if each of us assumes our share of responsibility then, then success will be.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62469	The next replica of the respected representative Pavic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62470	Dear MPs, you are so often criticizing the state government and people in positions that it is difficult to catch you and give you a chance to explain it through replicas yet, but today you have given a good hint about premature announcements of candidates and commenting on candidates in public. Namely, again today you mentioned the release of the bubble before it was actually known who would be the candidates, before the competition was called, before people ran, before they gave their documentation, before they might even have written their program and prepared themselves for their programme to be presented in front of the assembly. It largely contaminates that space and contaminates the process itself and brings us another problem. If we already know who's being talked about, who might be elected, whether it's the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia now or perhaps the director of the HRT, if we know that before the competition is called, what's the point of it all together?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62471	Dear representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62472	Thank you for asking, but this is the fundamental change that one judge, one person can bring into our system. Yes, the early publication of support for that candidate was a devoid of purpose, and the purpose was to hear what that person advocates and what he promises to do if he comes to the opportunity to do so. This should be the purpose of all public competitions and all public calls. And if we finally introduce this system of metricocracy to come to positions not because someone is nice to someone or has the support of this or that political option, color or government but rather we will stick to what this person has achieved in his life, how much he knows, how much he can and if we check during the term of office the passing time in the first year, in the second, third and fourth and on the basis of which we will judge what the mandate was, then Croatia will become better.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62473	The next replica of the respected representative Sablar-Dračevac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62474	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honor, I'm curious as to how you would personally lead or suggest the way in which the whole process would be conducted and which, in your opinion, is the best way to elect a Supreme Court president, and is there any good practice in another country that we might be able to look up to? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62475	Dear representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62476	Now, I'm going to quote one sentence from Judge Radovan Dobrinić, which is that the complete system needs to be programmed at first, which means that I can't answer you in a way that we're going to change the system of choice by giving the judiciary ourselves more weight and more, more rights because in itself it means nothing if we don't change the structure of the DSV at the same time and if we don't establish real control of the property cards, unless we change everything that's connected with the system of connected vessels, which means there's not one simple solution that can be said in 30 seconds, we need to change the whole system completely, the whole system needs redesigned. But if you're asking for comparative law, in the fourth evaluation round of all Western European states, they're going to step up the role of the judicial authority in the election process and the selection of their own candidates.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62477	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62478	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Oreskovic, you were saying that politics is doing the pressure on the judiciary and that you are glad that HDZ and corrupt judges did not report to this contest, so it could result in that, that you think that all others who have not reported to HDZ are corrupt, is that a sign of equality, is it even possible in a judiciary that is independent and under b) that someone concludes that you are working with such statements on the judiciary? So I would ask you for clarification because I think that so a sharp speech that is quite one-sided can send the wrong message at a time when I really think there is one consensus on the election of the Supreme Court president and some guidelines that are needed by the Croatian judiciary to make it better and more effective because I think we all want it together.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62479	Dear Representative Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62480	The Croatian judiciary needs stronger internal control through stronger powers and even stronger work by DSV. The Croatian judiciary needs a stronger role, a greater number of procedures by the state or ethical commission for judges, but the same ethical commission for state lawyers. What are the HDZ judges, so I don't know, maybe those who sit in a tavern together with Zeljko Kerum, maybe those judges who visit the famous Janafa club at the time of lockdown and meet with HDZ ministers and drink coffee with them. So, there are known judges of HDZ, those who are private and non-transparent friends with them if anyone defended the judiciary and claimed that out of 1710 or 12 judges as many as Croatia has are not all corrupt, that the problem of corruption was reduced to 1 or 2% then it was me. But also by name and by name, I listed those I suspect are corrupt.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62481	The Honorable Representative, Opaljak Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62482	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues in your presentation earlier, and already through the replicas earlier than you said, of course, that you want an independent and impartial judiciary and that we agree, somehow I feel this dose through, not to criticise, but to put Judge Dobronic through one questionnaire for a reason because he has run for office, proposed by the president of the Republic of Croatia. If I remember correctly during the debate on the election of Zlata Djurdjevic, you specifically said you would not support her for a purely reason because she is the candidate of President Zoran Milanovic. I'm asking you if this is about you being a representative, not reacting impartially and independently, but simply going to some sort of personal animosity towards Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62483	Dear representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62484	On the Justice Committee, I first gave almost bianco support to Judge Radovan Dobronic, and that is because I know his work from the period when I came to his judicial referendum as a trainee 20 years ago. And then I told him that his problem was not that Zoran Milanovic supported him, but that he was an intellectual who thinks outside the box, and he is also acting in an environment where everyone has suffered, the defeat of all forms of intellectualism both right and in politics. I also expressed my desire to remain steadfast. So Judge Radovan Dobrinić first heard from me public support dating even before this public call and competition was called. And as for Mrs Zlata Djurdjevic, it was not a problem that Zoran Milanovic's candidate was too early to say what her intentions were. She went outside the scope of the procedure of this law and disagreed with her view of the problem and the situation in the judiciary or a proposal for a solution. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62485	The next one will speak to the respected representative Sabina Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62486	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, less trust of citizens than they have in institutions, above all, I think of those who manage the state, which are the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia, citizens only have in the system of justice. And that's something that certainly every one of us in this assembly, and also those who aren't here right now, but are chosen to represent citizens, must surely be seriously, seriously concerned. And each of us should work to change that. And what I hear today is that there is a great level of consent that will give great support to Mr. Dobronic to become the new President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia in the coming period because he sees in him a person who, of course, none of us are deceived will reform the judiciary in his mandate, but in it I see one symbol of an insemination that this judiciary, the justice system should look. It's a man, I don't know him, I don't come from that system, but it's my impression and everything I've read about him when I've listened to for hours how he thoroughly explained his program by following it online because I'm not a board member and I wasn't at the hearing of all the candidates, and what his colleagues say about him is that he's a man who's professional, valuable, courageous, innovative, just and unwavering. And so should be the Croatian judiciary. And I'm also not fooling myself at this point that one man is going to change everything, but I think he can hit one good pace, he can hit one good beat. He will have to come before the Croatian Parliament very soon as any of his predecessors, until the end of April to submit a report on work that will not be a full report on the work of the courts and the judicial authorities in his term, it will be just one small part, but I think we will be able to see what of what he has promised is ready and how, how to implement it. But they also cannot agree with those who are his role in the debates that he is just some technical president of the Supreme Court, or the first among the equals, because he certainly is not. We have already heard here today our club president on behalf of our club said this is who and, this man is the man who, by default, is the president of the State Election Commission, is concerned that elections in the Republic of Croatia should be conducted in the way that they should be conducted according to all aspects of democratic, democratic norms. Likewise, it is a man who, as he himself said, has one of the most challenging tasks to be put not only before him, before the Supreme Court, but before the entire judicial authority, and this is equality in the process and unification of proceedings, but also the right to a proportionate period of trial. That's what our citizens, the citizens, are worried about. We here, of course, when the judge submits his report, the President of the Supreme Court then doesn't talk so much about the content, he presents us in a manner of statistical image, a blood count of the judicial system in the previous year, but I also think that this unification of judicial practice, better strong records, better education, better organisation of the courts themselves, as well as better efficiency, efficiency, and how one man can impose a pace. I hope that there will also be support from the Supreme Court, but also from a colleague at lower courts or at other levels of judicial authority. Equally, it would not be a waste to work a little more on the openness of the work of the courts themselves, in the publicly published, published decisions, but also on the consumption of its right to express firm measures, because that is the only way we can mean measurable parameters and punishment, by separating grain from the weeds to protect all those honorable and valuable people in the majority who work in this judicial system. Judge Dobrinic announced it, I hope it will succeed, that his first moves will show that he is going in that direction. What's left for us is to trust his program and believe he's a man of his word and that in a few months we'll be able to talk at least a little more positive about the signals that come and the winds that blow, And they're about to be launched by the President of the Supreme Court. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62487	The Republic has a respected representative, Raukar-Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62488	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues. We are witnessing that at the General session of the VSRH of Dobrinić, four judges supported, and Judge Mrcella 29, so I would like to ask you nicely if you can comment on the situation, given that Professor Djurdjevic also did not go through at the General Session of the VSRH, we would say that this is a very close call, so here, please, your comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62489	Dear representative of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62490	Thank you very much. I want to believe that this is just one strong statement of attitude that members or judges of the VSRH consider it necessary to be led by a man who is from that part of their work. I do not want to believe that this is about resistance to possible changes and new winds and a new perspective that can be brought by a man who is not that system, and perhaps more clearly, when we talk about the VSRH to a part of the judicial system, who may see clearer things on the side, detect the neural points, but also may have more guts to change them without objecting to the people he worked with yesterday, lived and shared some working conditions. I think that in one part they might interpret it in a way, and we're talking numbers here, and in the latest report, it's shown that at the end of 2020 we have 9% less unsolved cases than in 2019 with 122 solved cases per judge, that the indicator of the update is 115%, that they are the settlement of objects for a shorter period of 70 days, [[Thank you very much. Thank you.]] and that's something [[Intruder: We have the next line...]] Better. [[Intruder:...respected MPs...]] And it needs it faster and harder.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62491	... Dark-Taritash, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62492	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS, dear colleague. So, all the debates, regardless of what side of this assembly they come from, are somehow talking about being visible and that the judge will get, therefore, a candidate for the president of the VSRH to get support and I think it's good to go in that direction because this tape around the president or the president of the VSRH ends with that. What will be important will be some further steps. So I don't think he has a magic wand and that anything overnight can be different, anyone who thinks, that's gone astray somewhere, but there are some things that can be seen signs of some other winds. So, we know where the process of amending the law goes, who makes them and everything else, but in terms of the organisation, in terms of the public, in terms of transparency, in terms of some judgments that will be interesting to the public, and to be made public, there's his role and I kind of expect you to be. to see these new winds relatively quickly. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62493	Thank you. Dear representative of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62494	I share the same expectation with you. I hope that this today's support of a part of the clubs or representatives is not only conditioned by the fact that any political damage should stop the process, end this tape and say better, okay, let's just accept it, just so we don't suffer any political damage so that there's no public perception that we block something, disable, mention FIMI media, secondary procedures, etc. I hope this support will be even stronger in what is even more important, and that is the content and support that all political parties will need for what he wants to do, so he can't reform it, but he will have to have support. I expect that support from Andrej Plenkovic, who wants a country without corruption, and the first step towards this is to edit The justice system, the justice system. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62495	Thank you very much. The next one will be spoken by a respected representative of the Zvonomir Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62496	Dear vice president of HS, respected colleagues and fellow citizens who follow us through the screen. As for Mr Dobrinić himself, I personally do not know him, however, I was looking forward to the fact that the very function or person of the president of the VSRH will be replaced because I had the opportunity to hear here in HS that the former president of the VSRH has succeeded in saying that the judiciary is holding back the Croatian economy, that it is a mantra. And then when you are told by a person who is president of the VSRH, then you actually see or it is not clear that it is one of the basic problems that the Croatian economy is holding back or on the other, so that person himself is also holding back and therefore it is not quite clear that this is actually the most important problem. What certainly leaves a bitter taste in the Croatian public because it can already be connected, that for about four months it is expected that the FIMI media verdict itself, therefore with the former prime minister, and also with the party coming from which the former prime minister is coming, and it would not surprise me that even this verdict might be, perhaps even this week, here, it would honestly not surprise me that it would be one coincidence of the case that here, now we choose the president of the VSRH who would not have anything to do with that verdict, but on the other hand, that with this one change, it is now a guess that this verdict that we have been waiting for years now, since we know that there have been certain ribbons. As for Mr. Dobrinić himself, what I had was seen as the whole public, and you here with me, the critics were mostly hidden in a chamber, so in one deep coma and all that they said was that it was the person who had the most experience actually in the first degree Trade Court and that it was too little experience for him to run an important such institution as the Supreme Court. We had the opportunity to listen to him on the Justice Committee where he was modestly, humbly answering all our questions, and I can freely say that he gave one lesson in law, so he was responsible at one very intellectual, one legal level, which is more than enough criterion for him to act for four years. I don't think that this Superman person is because I don't think he can reform the judiciary, nor do I think that the ruling majority has a strategy for reforming the judiciary for the reasons we say 2 billion kunas that we're going to withdraw from the EU will be financed and channeled into something called the justice market. So who's going to build a square where maybe five, six courts will be stationed at once, and on the other hand they're making those problems, which is that the processes in the municipal court take us almost three years, at a store for almost three years, so these are the real reforms that we're waiting for, and that's what investors are looking at. We are constantly talking about this currency risk that exists in relation to the euro and now this whole topic that we are talking about, but on the other hand there is this one reputation risk that is just coming from the judiciary because investors when they look they know that they can invest here in Croatia in a partner who may have dual citizenship. This person partner takes the money, steals, goes to BiH and BiH will not deliver such a man, and the person who invested maybe millions or billions could never be charged, so these are the things that we need to reform, and the justice market is just one nominal thing or an indicator again of some investment in public administration and the question of whether these processes will really be digitised the way we would like it to be. In addition to answering questions patiently and humbly, we had opportunities to listen and listen and watch and have recorded, so he was critical of both state and local authorities, so he was also critical of fellow judges who create these processes, so they create these disputes. And what particularly impressed me is that perhaps Mr. Dobrinić is now that he will be given the opportunity to introduce the legal order. Now how much will he succeed, I don't know, but the fact that he touched, for example, those most important topics such as the issue of bills, such as the collection, such as public notebooks, such as the executions, etc., which he understands very well, I think it's a good opportunity to give him these four years and give him his pain in the judicial system.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62497	We have a replica of the esteemed representative of Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62498	You mentioned the mistrust of the people in the judiciary, that's where you mentioned the Fimi Media, and we have a number of other fimi media from painting the tunnel to not knowing everything that's never been solved, is that it? These actors are political still the main player not to mention Kalmeta's names now and beyond. I remember that time when Ivo Sanader was in HDZ, everyone here worshiped him, the people worshiped him, I'm at the son's market then. On the day of setting up some cornerstone where they hid the truth that he set up Ante Gotovina that while he was out of The Hague at the time of 2007. That's when I told him the end was coming to you, but it all came down to Ivo Sanader being guilty. He didn't know Mr. Rainer, nobody knows him, and now nobody knows him, and that's that painful fact that we as agents. We send... messages that once bowed to Evey Sanader. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62499	Dear Representative Troscott. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62500	Dear fellow Bull. No one is untouchable under the law. Here's an example for you now of an Austrian Chancellor who's been rushed into his office where he's going to be questioned by his investment funds and the exploitation of the media and here's his withdrawal. Otherwise, the first person to have been taken over by the Austrian state in view of its behaviour until it was investigated. On the other hand, the same good example is that I think she was the president or prime minister of Hong Kong who was just convicted of embezzling about 80 million dollars, so in that sense no one can avoid it. And even if the party was involved in these affairs, it can't avoid justice either. So, the judiciary and even in Croatia always catches the one who acted contrary to the laws of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62501	Dear Representative Miletic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62502	Thank you, dear vice president of HS. My colleague Troscott, I would like to ask you to come here for the sake of the Croatian public, of course, my other colleagues know who is thinking, but it is primarily for the Croatian public, so Judge Dobrinić is also critical of the actions of the courts and judges who, by their mistreatment or failure to act, have a negative impact on the work of the judiciary and the efforts to introduce in Croatia the right order what he said was legal. But I also wanted to ask you, do you think that there really is an injustice in our society when we generalize, so many of our people, I'm thinking that you're in a court of law trying to do your job right by burning it up, and then there's a bang that's not good for you all the time, it's no good. So, we have people who are honest who do their duty well than, somehow, always come to the surface of what's wrong, here's a comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62503	Dear Representative Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62504	Dear colleague Miletic. This is a particularly good question, and I think that not only is the people as such unfortunately lost confidence in the judicial system, but even the employees within the courts, especially the lower courts where we have, here, if we talk to the lawyers in practice, they're going to say how much the underrated officers in the courts, the judicial advisors, say the experts, how much blood they actually do, at the daily level, produce decisions, write for judges, participate in specific cases, earn maybe about 5 to 6 thousand kuna after the judicial exam, after all those unsanitary nights, receive, work for the coefficient 1.5 and what's worst, these people don't have a perspective that maybe one day they'll become judges within that system that system that they've been building for years. And that's exactly why once the stampede was caused by both law offices and courts, etc., so it was rerouted either to other cities or left the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62505	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62506	Dear Representative, in your presentation you have used the term "Superman", we have already had the opportunity to hear both Superman and the wizard and the magic wand, I don't think any of us expect that Mr. Dobrnic Superman, none of us expects that the wizard, none of us, will expect that the magic wand will solve any problem, however, as the old Chinese have said, each trip begins with the first step, and if at least one part of what Mr. Dobrnic said in his presentation when he was on the interview is correct, if he really thinks he's holding both the principles and principles he has drawn up there, I believe that we can expect a major advance in the independence of the judiciary and in great progress in resolving court cases and reducing the cases that actually come to the Supreme Court. If that really happens, I think that we will regain trust in the judiciary and that our people will think differently.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62507	Dear Representative Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62508	Dear colleague Pavić, I would agree with you. So some upper limit of that expectation to Mr. Dobronic was Superman, on the other hand, what we've heard from critics is that he's not good enough for such a high position. When I personally expressed myself to Superman, I didn't want to put any expectations and pressures and burdens on a man, so which, I don't think, I think he's aware of what he's going into, he's aware of these functions, and that just to run that little segment that he touched, for example, those accounts, the charges, which all the problems that public notebooks and judges who make wrong decisions and these facts themselves, are complicated by certain processes within the system, alone, just to get it started, and that change would already be enough for what you're saying that every trip is going to take a small step and I think we should give him a chance there.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62509	Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62510	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. If I understand correctly, you've been to the Committee's session. I wasn't a member, I wasn't, but from this record that's very detailed I can really read what we already have and some of us have found, that Judge Dobrinić really gave a good lesson from everything that's wrong in our system, so I think he's pretty brave and without any doubt brought out everything that needs to be fixed, and at the expense of the insurance companies that abuse the system, so low taxes, so at the expense of the state, the companies in its possession, the units of local self-government, which are even freed from court fees, so he went pretty closely into what was wrong. Of course he can't do everything himself, the question is of course what teamwork will have in its new environment, but it's important that we all influence here and speak out loudly about what, I mean, we influence our own, is it, exposure to what's wrong? and in that sense help to [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Laws to be amended and to be [[Employed: Dear Representative]] The system improves. [[Intruder: Troscott.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62511	Dear colleague Maric, I'd like to agree with you. You've set it right. He was indeed at that actual confrontation, so he showed all these characteristics that you stated, and since he did not have, had, were great expectations given the criticisms he had, he kept it all stoically and in the spirit of a real intellectual, a lawyer, answered those questions, and I think they all actually solidarityated and empathized with Mr. Dobrnic after that presentation. He touched, unlike the other candidates, I haven't read more in detail, but he touched on the most important topics that the sea of our citizens has. First of all, he had tremendous successes on the subject of "Franka", further, the very bills of collection, executions, public notebooks, so everything that bothers our citizens, which at national level, at local self-government level, and I think that, since he understands the problem that he will have this broad perspective that he knows at least where to start in his new position.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62512	Just a second. Thank you very much. Now the next individual debate will be the respected representative of Zeljko Pavić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62513	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. I believe and hope that we are finally in front of a solution to a tape called President VSRH's choice. After the ruling candidate's candidacy with a respectable biography has been rejected for unknown reasons, with respectable achievements in the area of the legal system of the lady. Zlata Djurdjevic, after a long warm summer, managed to reach a compromise and the prime minister finally accepted the president's proposal, which is really encouraging. Let us not be fooled that at the time when the VSRH president was agreed, the quality criterion and the criteria of the results achieved, however, the agreement was reached and as far as the Social Democrats Club is concerned, we can say that fortunately, the candidate we consider to be one of the most qualified candidates who could run and the best candidate to run. What is certain is that, in his interview with the Justice Committee, he overshadowed all other candidates. He gave an excellent cut to the Croatian judiciary. He gave an excellent review of the problems the judiciary has been struggling with for many years. Whether he will be able to solve at least one part of the problems he spoke about in the assembly in this four-year term, whether he will succeed in achieving the objectives he has outlined, whether he will succeed in reducing the number of cases coming to the Supreme Court to a number of 10% of cases so far, that is a big question, but we can certainly conclude that the objectives are good, as well as the remarks he has given in connection with the work of judges and the remarks on the number of cases that judges have to solve. Especially cheerful and instilling hope of judicial independence, which rightly gives us hope that finally those who are arrested and for whom the prosecution institutions have managed to collect an enviable amount of evidence will be condemned and that their cases will not be or will not end up in obsolescence. On the one hand, he made comments on the functioning of the judicial system and, on the other hand, on the factors that make it difficult or disabling to work in the judicial system. Since he was given more time for his presentation than was given to any other candidate, his presentation turned into a observed lecture on the judicial system on which many people in the Republic of Croatia should forget. What is surprising is the fact that, regardless of his excellent direction in the system, he showed his competences, and that he successfully presented these competences, when the Supreme Court judges voted, he did not receive the trust of most judges. What does that tell you? This points to the conclusion that the judiciary is a closed system in which judges find it very difficult to release new experts, especially experts who announce serious changes in the way the judiciary works, even if they are changes that predict far better functioning of the judicial system, far better functioning of the courts, when these changes seek to solve problems with the number of unresolved litigation or short-term improvements in the functioning of the judiciary. This is one of the reasons why we rightly suspect that Judge Dobronic will be able to solve problems in the judiciary. However, we must accept his programme, we must give him support and yet take the first step, though small, in solving the problem in the judiciary and allow him to try to regain confidence in the system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62514	Honorable representative Petyr has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62515	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague of Pavic's, you said that for unknown reasons Professor Djurdjevic's election was suspended as head of the Supreme Court. It's not for unknown reasons, it's not followed procedure, and if someone has to follow procedure, then I guess it's HS which is the legislative body in the Republic of Croatia. The critics respected Judge Dobronic that he did not meet the norm, that he did not solve the number of cases prescribed for each judge, however, he replied to these accusations that not every subject of the same weight and complexity and that it does not have the same financial scope and that this should be taken into account in the evaluation of the work of judges. But the fact remains that there are many unsolved cases. I'm interested in the fact that you've made some of your expectations as to how you see his mandate, do you think he's going to introduce a newspaper into this evaluation procedure, or are we going to stay in these positions now?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62516	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62517	Thank you very much. Just to remind you, you didn't listen to me very well, I said that the ruling majority did not accept the choice of Madame. Zlata Djurdjevic, so I didn't say anything about the procedure, but only that the ruling majority did not accept it as a solution, or Mrs. Zlata Djurdjevic did not accept it as a solution. That's what I said, and we can listen to it later. But now it doesn't matter, this last question is much more important to me. I think that if Mr. Dobronic really accepts these jobs he said in the way he presented them there, and if he takes into account all the factors currently present in the judiciary, I think we can expect success. Of course it is not enough just his work, it must be the work of judges in the Supreme Court, it must be the work of judges in all other courts, but of course it must be the work of all other accompanying services that accompany the work of judges, of course and control for the work of individual judges, since you yourself said that not every case can be measured equally and that not every case can be spent at the same time.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62518	Honorable representative Sablar-Dračevac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62519	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Parliamentarian, I see that you are under a positive impression, so I am now interested in what part do you think the Supreme Court president should be directed at first and what is the burning problem in the Croatian judiciary to be addressed, and the president is in charge? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62520	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62521	You mean the President of the Court's office? It's like a man who doesn't come from the judicial system hard to say, but what I would say as an external observer and as a person who listened to and exposed him and a person who followed the general situation in the state administration said that we had to keep in mind that not only the tasks were shared but also that these tasks were being monitored afterwards. Unless the judges are controlled, if we don't go back to controlling their trials, to what they've been doing, that if we don't follow what they've done, at what stage, which phase, which process, I don't mean trial, we're not going to achieve anything. So I think that's what we need to concentrate on along with everyone else who has jurisdiction over judges.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62522	Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62523	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Dear counterpart Pavic, so in your debate, you spoke very affirmatively about this election, and I think that the main debate was such as to give support to the new president, I assume that Friday he will be elected and stressed that certain steps in his work should be monitored. But what was seen in this election and seen next. So, it is no secret that the other judges of the Supreme Court think that they should choose between themselves the president as they say yesterday again for the President of the Constitutional Court elected Mr. Šeparović, so they were also that attitude and that opinion, and that is clear and in the debates the other candidate was therefore not the one but the other candidate was talking about it, but they were also through their vote and through the vote that clearly showed that one narrow niche from which to be chosen, so I am curious to look back a little on that moment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62524	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62525	Thank you very much. Here I was looking back at it in my presentation, and I said, I think I said, at least I said that when I voted at the Supreme Court, he didn't get most of the votes of the judges, which actually suggests that it's very difficult to get into that privileged group that then makes decisions about our fates, of course, if you find yourself in court. It happens not only in the Supreme Court, it happens as you yourself said in the Constitutional Court, it happens in other courts. It's very difficult to get into court, it's very difficult to become a judge, especially if you don't have any connection to say anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62526	Dear Representative Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62527	Thank you, dear vice president of HS. Dear colleague. Here I have a jokebachter here, so Judge Dobrinić in his programme notices that in the Republic of Croatia for 30 years, so after its independence of democracy and beyond, I quote it “there continues to be a concept of wrongful perception of rights and justice as a tool in the hands of the ruling class”, in fact he here let's say it to the plastic Croatian people whether it's always something I tell us is clear, but we tell our people, citizens who may not fully understand the problem, here we get one promise that Judge Dobrnic will try to do everything that can make the justice right. So politics often thinks when it comes somewhere in a position of power and now they'll listen to us. Do you actually think it'll work? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62528	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62529	So I think Judge Dobronic was polite in his presentation and he used the word ruling class, and here we can talk about the ruling party, so it's not the same. Class and party isn't the same. If Judge Dobrinic really manages to fight for the judiciary to be independent I think we have achieved a great result because when some members of the government defend themselves by not knowing something, we need to know that it is not true because it is known. We know who knows who they're going to, and we know who they're going to... the information, so no one can say that something didn't know and that it wasn't referred to.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62530	Dear representative Udovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62531	Thank you. Here is counterpart Pavic on the report by the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia on the state of the judicial authority, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, in 2019, gave a positive opinion and it was found that further efforts will be made in the coming period to increase the efficiency of courts in resolving cases under their jurisdiction. In this respect, special attention should be paid to procedures lasting more than three years with a view to resolving them more quickly. Shortening the length of court proceedings is an essential element in strengthening citizens' trust in the judiciary, and hence positive perceptions of the work of the system. I would ask your opinion where it is really necessary to distinguish the responsibility of the President of the Supreme Court, and where is the competent ministry or government in ensuring conditions for this purpose to come to an end?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62532	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62533	The problem you've presented now is really complex and the answer would take a little longer, but I'll tell you one thing, if we can control what the judges are doing, if we have insight into the course of these cases, if we have constant control over what stage they're in, if we can warn them and if we can punish them if they don't do something, then they'll certainly work differently. Today sanctions don't exist, today there's a finding you haven't done your job, today there's a finding you've done all the work or finished two cases, but after that there's no sanction. I have a friend of the judge who really does his job fair and square, ends all cases in time, has no problem, has never received any warning, but you have on the other hand next to him in the office of people who don't do it and nothing happens to them. He's been at work all day, having discussions in the morning of eight o'clock, they've got a ten-hour hearing. So if we're going to have control if we digitize all of this together, if the control is going to be through digital systems and if they're going to controlling to have insight into that will not be a problem. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62534	Thank you. Dear Representative Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62535	Dear counterpart Pavic, I think the proposed candidate for the Supreme Court President, Mr. Dobronic, has reason to be and has reason to enjoy our trust. What affects me, however, is the fact that he became famous for one tragic case that is linked to the judgment of the Swiss franc, because from the moment that verdict went to favour people who had savings in Swiss francs, all those citizens who were slightly less damaged but who had loans in euro were discriminated against. Now that we are entering a fixed course because we are entering the euro zone that story is unfortunately passing, but the fact is that since the creation of the Croatian Kuna as a coin, we have unfortunately maintained a Yugoslav avaism called the currency clause.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62536	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62537	Your Honor, I agree with you that we could actually say that it's funny that a man becomes famous for doing his job correctly, and on the other hand, as you said, one group has actually remained damaged and this large group of people. All those who had loans in the euro remained damaged, and those with Swiss people solved their problem and it became known for having reached a fair verdict. Isn't that funny? On the other hand, he has his own problems when he has made that ridiculous ruling about HRT, but now it's not that important given all the positive things he's given us on his interview.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62538	On behalf of the Centre and Vosa Representatives Club, the next one will finally speak to the respected representative Dalia Oreskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62539	Thank you to the president, colleagues and colleagues. I have already pointed out several times that Judge Radovan Dobranić has my support and my vote, and now I will further point out and say that I believe that he is the best thing that could happen to the Croatian judiciary and perhaps to this whole political and public scene. And in the context of this election and appointment, I think his main advantage is that he's a judge who's terribly contemplative and he's thinking about the very quality of justice and the quality of the trial and that's what separates him and separates him from the others. He's a kind of visionary, and that's how he joined and designed his own program. But I must say that during this debate, even by at least those MPs who in principle give him the support of a sense of a lot of false thesis, false findings and the conclusion of the very work of a judicial authority that I am convinced would not agree with either Radovan Dobrnic. First of all, it concerns the alleged imprisonment of the Supreme Court judges themselves who are then declaring themselves a caste in which it is very difficult to enter. Well, first of all, if we want a quality judiciary of dear colleagues and colleagues, then we really need to have in that Supreme Court the best, the best among the judges. And to make someone the best of it, you can't get through the night, not even in a way that puts a president of the state there at will. Severe problems in the judiciary at the level of one file, at the level of one case, and especially at the level of the system can be seen and well seen by someone who observes it from the outside. Yes, at the level of theory, but not at the level of practice. As you couldn't be the manager of anyone's system if you hadn't spent a single working day in that system. To understand the judges, to understand the file, to understand the litigators in that file, first of all to be a judge. As for the Supreme Court itself, Radovan Dobrinić pointed out several examples in which our Supreme Court made good decisions. It's not just a Swiss case. This is, for example, a number of cases in which he pointed to the unacceptable practice of insurance companies at the expense of our citizens when insurance companies removed or placed that provision in their general provisions, that if someone was not tested for alcohol, there is no right to insurance. So our Supreme Court has made a whole series of good moves and Judge Radovan Dobronic admits it. And as for the Supreme Court's assessment of the content of the programme and the work of all the candidates that have arrived, they have actually made a good decision. It should be placed in their shoes, so we know on the basis of which criteria the Supreme Court judges evaluated all the candidates arrived. I have to say, I agree with them here. For example, Judge Marin Mrcela gave a structured approach, leaving the framework and sticking to the strict framework of the powers of the Supreme Court president in particular in the performance of those cases of the judiciary administration. On the other hand, Judge Radovan Dobranić has made one extensive ingredient that speaks more about the issue of certain legal branches than what would actually result from the power of the office for which he is running. So the judges of the Supreme Court have arrived to evaluate cold heads and I must say that I was among them and would bring such an assessment myself. They gave their court exactly as they should have given it, and it is a burden on us parliamentarians to recognize whether we need a person in such a position who will think within the framework of what is already in place or who will be a person like Judge Radovan Dobrinić who has not only detected where weaknesses are in the structure of certain legal branches. He was actually talking about where anomalies are in the system, talking about policy responsibilities, hollow laws and even more hollow and inconsistencies. And if you ask me where we will be in a year, I have no doubt that Radovan Dobrinić, from the position of the Supreme Court president, will succeed in carrying out everything he said during that first year of those consultation meetings, from cooperation between the judges themselves, more exchange of opinions and advice. The question is what policy will do, how many parliamentary deputies will make us legislative changes that are addressed at least part of the problems he has raised so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62540	Now, finally, on behalf of HSS and the Workers' Front, the respected representative, Katarina Peovic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62541	Here's a colleague and a colleague, and at the end of this debate, there's good news. We have just heard that the Supreme Court ruled in the Fimi-media case by confirming that HDZ is the first political party to be accused of being first indelicately now and legally. I'd say it's a nice end to this debate, although I have a slightly different thesis. But we can connect her to this, of course. If we talk about justice as the framework that everyone believes in Croatia will bring about some changes, then these questions are also asked what to say. So, if we have a political party that ends up on the defendant's bench and gets charged with the indictee's bench. Of course, the judiciary can bring some bright points in our democracy, and in that tone was my debate on behalf of the club. I absolutely welcome here some synergy of all to elect Judge Dobronic as Supreme Court Judge. However, I would like because of our viewers, because of those who expect much of it, I will only repeat it once more and underline some things when we talk about anti-corruption policies then we have heard here in the debate more than once that the most important index of perception is the fact that Croatia is very high on this corruption perception index. I will repeat China once again is 15 places worse than Croatia. It does not prevent her from having a high economic rise and getting out as she did almost 800 million people out of poverty. The second example is Italy. So in the 1990s, one of the world's seven most developed economies, regardless of the public perceptions of the Italian authorities were marked as notorous by corrupt practices in spectacular actions like that of manipulative. So when we talk about corruption, we need to keep in mind and reach anti-corruption policies. So, the conclusion in the world is that there is no example of a state or economy that, according to key economic and social indicators, belonged to the ranks developed, in order to change this after a decisive fight by the new, progressive authorities against corruption and clientelism. There is no such example in history in the present. So the real problem is that we don't see the forest from the trees, that by moralising a much deeper and more difficult problem, and it's important that we take the position of the periphery in the EU, European means periphery and that we go towards the bottom. It means that HDZ is therefore fighting for this race to the bottom, so that in an increasingly unfavourable economic structure we continue to, or that we are competing under quotes with a low labour price. In translation, this means that competitiveness in Croatia is achieved only by reducing labour prices, firing, making contracts more insecure, workers working in increasingly insecure and underpaid conditions. In this way, we will not change our lives for the better, and with better judiciary or the famous reforms that many have called for here, we will put this situation even more at risk than we will provide the working majority with a better life. Anyone who really needs to change will have to get caught up in these policies that are also here now we get that information and marked as corrupt and problematic, but certainly not the one who wants to change something will be able to keep on moralising and we are now in the policies of modern and current seeing that this is quickly spent. So the policies of the petty reformers of all possible species as they have been called those politicians of anti-corruption policies already in history, so rather than having to face what the party is now condemned as a party, the first party to end up on the indictee bench and show how it works in this economic context. So much for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62542	The next final on behalf of the Social Democrats' Club of Representatives, says respected representative Romana Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62543	I thank the Vice President of the Parliament. Today, a much more debate on the state of justice, the crisis in the functioning of the judicial system seen in mistrust, as well as the crisis in social trust in the judiciary, was discussed in the debate on the election of the Supreme Court president. Unlike the developed justice systems of the European north where more than 80% of the population trusts the judiciary in Croatia about 80% of citizens do not trust courts and judges. Contrary to claims that public mistrust in the judiciary is a result of the lack of knowledge of the right and of the real functioning of the judiciary among citizens in reality is a low public respect of the judiciary, a reflection of the real systemic shortcomings and gaps between the results achieved by the judicial system and the need of society for adequate legal protection of citizens and legal persons. Contrary to the claim that it's a false impression, it's a bitter reality. Although it is true that certain cases of negative examples are affected, mistakes and scandals have grown from the issue of numbers to whether anything can be done without radical interventions. It is difficult to deny after a series of scandals that it is not about the judiciary, but there is a high degree of clientism, nepotism, and corruption in the system itself. The responsibility for the poor functioning of the judiciary does not exist and that the holders of judicial functions do not act objectively independently. The causes of the crisis are not only organised by means but also by people who act in the judiciary. Cleanup in the 1990s left a mark on not only the organisational culture of fear of politics and the public but also on self-aware efforts to impose narrow professional and personal interests on the profession. Understandable, however, is not to justify obstructing reforms, and they are inconclusive without the cooperation of those who implement them. The system of promotion and selection does not promote innovation and accountability but routine. The principle that judges evaluate judges has turned into action of pressure groups, click competition and personalistic evaluation criteria. Instead of an external goal, justice has become a living business. What's bad is the impression that the guilty are not being punished, so it's kind of an incentive for others to deal with corrupt activities. Corruption is an obstacle to our country's development and the reason for social, economic and political decline. In Croatia, everything is so ruined including the judiciary that we need a new start. Politics for the ruling must not be power but responsibility, and the rule in Croatia must not be corrupt. Corruption is eaten by Croatian society. Because of corruption, many young people have stolen the future and older people's dignity. We need to be realistic and be aware, that only one man can't lead to change overnight, but what he can do for a start is be a wheel towards that change and establish order in our judiciary. Dobronic and I will repeat once again that in 2013, he stood up to the banks and, by making a verdict, sided with the users of the damaged Swiss savings, he sided with the small ones. It means that the key is in independence, knowledge and will. Also, in the criteria of expertise, integrity, not the criteria of stabilization.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62544	The next final on behalf of the Green-Left bloc's Green-Left Club will speak to the esteemed representative Urša Raukar-Gamulin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62545	So we've experienced a verdict, which makes it clear that HDZ is the most responsible for corruption in this country, but we're back to the election. So at the Trade Court, some of his colleagues call a good man Dobronic. Obviously there is also support and respect for at least part of his colleagues and colleagues, he will also have our club's support at Friday's vote, and we see that he will also have the support of most clubs and representatives in the Assembly. But he also has the support of one important person in the Croatian judiciary, which is Prof. Zlata Djurdjevic. She is an external member of the Justice Committee and, as we know, a candidate for the Supreme Court and in previous competitions. I want to return to the case of Professor Djurdjevic, who, with great dignity and professional integrity, went through a dirty campaign in which it was attacked in the least possible way. Professor Djurdjevic has all been through the unbroken reputation and immeasurable enthusiasm, however, I would say it is even more determined to contribute to the necessary cruel reforms and changes in the Croatian judiciary. As a candidate, she made it clear that as president of the VSRH, she would lift the influence of politics on the judiciary because the political election of judges has led to dissuasive consequences for the judiciary and society. In her programme, she made it clear that Croatia is the worst in the EU by perception of the independence of judges, and the main reason is pressure from the government or other politicians. Professionally, courageously, clearly and specifically pointed to all the cancer wounds of our judiciary and it is therefore important that it is such an expert and such a person, that she supported Judge Radovan Dobronic for the president of the VSRH. Thus, Professor Djurdjevic once again showed and proved that in her work she only motivated the public well-being and well-being of the Croatian judiciary and never her own career or any other personal motive. Professor Djurdjevic says of Judge Dobronic, I can only appreciate him according to his programme and what I heard on the Committee and I can say that my expectations have been met in every respect. He showed a luxuriant legal knowledge and a deep understanding of the problem of justice. He showed understanding of the situation of judges and judges in the legal order of the Republic of Croatia and which means judicial duty. That it's an intellectual, difficult, conscious and responsible duty, that they're not officials. That it's not a mechanical performance, but that you have to be an intellectual in the full sense of the word and I recognize it in it, which, I must say, is very rare for us, but also elsewhere, so it goes on. What I especially appreciate about Judge Dobrinić is that he is fully open to a comparative approach, and opening up to legal science and he took into account what is really very rare about us. I recognize the aspect of openness and the willingness to interpret rights based on public trust, and that justice and justice are not separate. In public, prominent lawyers and lawyers often hear that justice and justice are not the same, and the task of the court is to exercise justice. Professor Djurdjevic, regardless of being clearly selected and unequivocally gives support to his colleague, speaks of the high values of Judge Radovan Dobrinić, but also of the top integrity of Professor Djurdjevic. The choice of Judge Dobrinić opens, hopefully a new chapter in our judiciary, and hopes that in this new era justice and the right to come close and that the words of Professor Djurdjevic will indeed begin to come true. The court's task is to bring justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62546	The next one will speak on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, finally respected representative Arsen Bauk, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62547	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I read this news of a powerful verdict, but don't worry about your HDZ colleagues. The Constitutional Court has never failed you, so they won't let you down now. So in that sense, if the Law of Courts could, uh, if the Law of Courts could say that it was suspended, then it could bring your judgment down, as if it were their first time and then it would go into oblivion and, as it were, ate by a wolf, by a donkey. But well, it had to be said that here, that a little, ha doesn't need to comfort you, I mean, it's nothing special, if you haven't prepared yourself for this before, then, and HDZ has always been prepared for everything, nothing surprised you, so it didn't surprise you either. Do you agree? Okay. [[Intruder: Let's go about selecting the president of the VSRH, please.]] This has to do with the subject so much that this verdict can be signed by this VSRH president because it was on the VSRH, and it was, Mr. Vice President in one of those numerous compliments of the president and prime minister, a statement by the President of the Republic that there was HDZ in conflict of interest, so I think I'm in the topic, but I won't insist further. Paradoxically, therefore, it is likely that the supreme judges of the Supreme Court who pleaded on candidate programmes were asked if you wanted Zlata Djurdjevic or Radovan Dobrovic, they would probably say Zlata Djurdjevic in the end, but they can't claim 100%. Finally, according to the representatives' clubs, Judge Dobrinić and VSRH candidate Dobronic will receive more than two-thirds of HS support. It will be, it seems to me to be the person around whom, as never before, a consensus has been reached. So, these clubs that are against, they're going to have to stand out, we were against, and it's going to be very small because no one will even understand why they're against. May he be against it, just because Milanovic suggested it, and some will be for only because Milanovic suggested it. I think that the statement on the first candidate of the President of the Republic was actually a statement on the President of the Republic, and then after that statement turned into everything not just a debate on the judiciary, but a debate on the Constitution, respect for the law, I even allowed myself to call legal provisions in words that may not have been appropriate for commenting on the legal provisions, but their application was just like that. And here, in the end, after all, after months, this saga will end. Maybe that's good. Maybe that's good, because in that debate we've exhausted so much that we simply needed to find strong arguments that another candidate would refuse, and with all the delays, with all the demands of the DSV, along with all those fences, at the end of the HDZ couldn't find a reason why the candidate would refuse. So for the first time they were looking for a reason why the candidate would refuse and it was relatively easy to find, because there was no procedure, although Professor Djurdjevic did not make much of a mistake, they now found no reason to reject the candidate. Therefore, I think that the judge and president of VSRH Dobrnic, if nothing, will be that pebble in the shoe that will injure the judiciary as it is now and what some reforms really need. As the government initially gave up any reform of the judiciary, so that it abolished the Ministry of Justice and brought it together with the Ministry of Administration, which also needs reform, and minus and minus, in the case of reforms, in which case the only possible reformer of the judiciary will be the president of the VSRH. Look, he's better than nobody. So, to conclude with the verses, I think it's "Nadalina", and it has to do with today's verdict, "The exercise to go to bed, it's nice too." Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62548	The next final address will be the esteemed representative of the Mosta Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62549	The people know, we have a constitution that's a dead letter on paper, the judiciary doesn't work, the Supreme Court doesn't work, it works on the basis, like I said when he was and went the former Supreme, Mr. Sess's president on a bag basis, the fuller and the bigger it worked. So nepotism, unequal practice, long means litigation and this mistrust caused a reaction of demographic decline, and the consequence is of course, it's a key consequence that people are moving because we don't have competitions, the businessmen are just leaving, I mentioned the city of Zagreb, that there's no possibility of some dealing with waste, but someone who has destroyed competition unfairly because many of those who have had the ability to run before, I don't know, 15 years ago, and in my area have come up with a number of companies that their sons work in the county, and he works for the county roads, their companies from the family, so that simply normal competition can't supply. That's why we can do it! in Zagreb and fell offside, he thought he'd settle something that someone could do the job, but he can't, he can't because the competition was destroyed and there were people who were competing, who honestly wanted to compete in public procurement and work, they couldn't because the mafia determined how it was done. It's simple and it's folkly spoken, favoring God, favoring man, Parliament, on the street, in court. So it's been convenient in public procurement to certain structures that have grown so much that competition can't do these jobs and companies have been shut down, people have gone. So, equality in public procurement, a ruined economy and entrepreneurs who are in the liberal market, the tribals are developing. So this wasn't a liberal market, it was just a law written liberally, but it was a bargain and the great giants took over the monopoly. That's how it works in waste management or something else, and that's how it works. I see in my town how it works. We have Purity, but there's no bagger, there's no truck, there's no tractor, there's no tractor, there's no and then of course there's the outside team, and so... And that's where people do, of course, private people do their job. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There was no competition in the company to be on a fair footing, and that's where the judiciary failed. And now a lot of people just shut down their companies, someone gained a monopoly, and what happened? We don't have a job, we don't have a competition, we literally go through the contests that were called for shoes, which is the number of shoes, and what's going on? It happens that only certain companies that have strengthened certain businesses can do certain jobs, we have no meaning of competition, competition is always good and it is the biggest crime. The biggest, all that was healthy, which was on good grounds was destroyed, which is not tied to an octopus corrupt, party. I know here, everyone will now say that the most guilty here is Ivo Sanader for everything. I remember those times. ... He doesn't know. [[You don't understand.]] I personally attacked him to... Come the end. [[You don't understand.]] Then it doesn't matter to me, like I told him in public. That's when I even got banned from getting close to Alka. But the fact is no one knows Sanader. Does anyone here know Sanader or ever had coffee with him, or was he his party president? So that Fimi Media is basically the best... We don't know him. [[You don't understand.]] Says Branko Bačić once I have no idea who he is, and... from him and from Jadranka Kosor. ... [[You don't understand.]] So we have this kind of political figure. [[You don't understand.]] It's now that I don't know God Petrov or Nikola Grmoy. I'm saying I have no idea... I mean, what kind of man are you? [[You don't understand.]] What will they do to the President now, not the President of the Supreme Court? So we're sending as fellow Members of Parliament and colleagues a bad message. Here's to these masks when this recording's over. We'll take off the masks. It's so called hypocrisy. So the director in Sinj the other day a set of 100 people did not keep masks loaded on each other, and the students stuck masks on... and thousands because they depend on the county is the owner because the HDZ political party is in power so they have to listen to the county headquarters and so it functions hypocritically, nepotism, corruption, misery and if anyone changes and the current Supreme Court president one small step and a foot in the ass... [[You don't understand.]] Thank you very much for shutting it down for me. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62550	Thank you very much for talking about the election of the Supreme Court president so exhaustingly. The Honorable representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic will now speak on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62551	He ends up sagaing about the election of the Supreme Court president and no one today actually has a problem with how much I understand Judge Dobronic's choice for one small reason why he did his job. He made one decision not so long ago, in 2013, which was perfectly logical and did one thing that many spoke of. He said the banks hurt the citizens' interest in non-transparently changing interest rates and abolished the so-called. currency clause. The man was doing his job. As judge of the Trade Court, he made one step that no one wanted to make at the time. But the Croatian people obviously, even Croatian politics are looking for some heroes even when they are not heroes. Is Judge Dobronic a hero because he did his job, because he did the logical thing? Because he actually had to do it, because he was just doing his job, so he shouldn't be. However, it seems strange in Croatia when someone is doing their job. It's weird when someone does something logical. It's funny when someone, no matter what hundreds of people or thousands of people have warned about this illogicality, they do it anyway. However, here I would still mention a phenomenon which we can call a conflict of interest, which is that the current ruling, which is the coalition of the SDSS and HDZ, is being elected by the Supreme Court President, who will literally sign the verdict tomorrow, the powerful verdict of the HDZ, and that is the conflict of interest. So someone chooses someone or decides on his choice, and he knows that tomorrow the person is in a position specifically to HDZ is about 3.5 million kunas of fines and 14.6 million kunas means money that is in one illegal way received and that the HDZ will have to return to the budget and that is one conflict of interest. And I'd like to point out that in this place, and I'd like the citizens to understand that it's a strange situation. But here I would end up saying the same extremely important fact. We've actually had one game all along, a game between two people. One is the Prime Minister, the other is the president of the state, so then I don't know who said it first, I think that Plenkovic said one person dragged through the mud agreed, Zlata Djurdjevic had nothing against it because I don't think she deserved to be in the seat of the Supreme Court president, and around the other they agreed. And from the beginning it was known that this other person would pass not because it was Judge Dobrinić, but simply had to happen. And why did it have to happen? Because they're soon following the appointments of people above all HDZ, and some SDPs or SDs don't know who they're going to be but who they're going to be, who they're going to delegate to embassies and consular representations. Here's my colleague Davor Eve Stier, as far as I can tell, he's on his way to the Vatican. Then from what I hear, colleague Miro Kovac is traveling somewhere to Germany. I heard that colleague Vesna Pusic got a ticket in some direction. I heard that his colleague Klisovic was also tired of Croatia and that he might leave Croatia and go somewhere else. But we'll see. We'll see but that's what's important and the choice of this judge has happened solely because it could continue to appoint people who fit the current set. And the current set is called the Plenkovic Milanović axis. Because if we look at it so objectively between those two people no matter how big a political difference it may seem. There is no key policy, no key policy that they disagree on. Here's someone to tell me one thing concrete, key to the Croatian state about which they disagree. There was only one, and her name was Zlata and her last name was Djurdjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62552	I will conclude the debate on this point, and we will vote on it when the conditions are met. Now we're going to the next point, and that's: The final draft law on the institutional framework for use... Here you go. Here you go, pals, Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62553	I'm looking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62554	No, you've already had a break, you can't ask for more time off.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62555	We had a break today?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62556	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62557	... Excuse me. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62558	Be a little bit, communicate a little inside the club, and you'll know what's going on.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62559	No, no, I forgot, my responsibility. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62560	What's going on in the Parliament?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62561	You don't have to be nervous. We know you have an unpleasant situation that we wanted to talk about, but you don't have to be nervous. I apologized, didn't I?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62562	You don't have to be nervous, do you? You don't have to be nervous. I'm not at all. If you'll let me finish, I'll read about it. So: - Final draft law on the institutional framework for the use of the European Union Funds in the Republic of Croatia, second reading, P.Z. No 135 Proposer of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply to this item of the agenda. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives and by the Committee on Regional Development and by the European Union Funds. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Dear representative Peovic, please. Are you looking for a break?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62581	We're looking for a break. I am looking for a break on behalf of the HSS Club and the RF to further consider the point that comes with EU funds, given the information now published that HDZ is convicted, the party convicted of corruption wants to question, how will EU funds coming through these funds be allocated to a party convicted of corruption. We feel that this is problematic and that some attention should be paid.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62582	They will be assigned to the state, not to strangers, not to any party. But, well, of course you can, I approve of you, of course, taking a break and, in accordance with Article 239.b, we will continue to work. My colleague Marko Pavić, you've done some damage to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62583	Thank you very much, dear colleague. But I would have called that the HSS Club and the Workers' Front had a break on the previous wheel where he asked for it so if it wasn't, then it's rude to connect and through the debate we'll show... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62584	No, no. Comrade Pavić, you're wrong. You've made a mistake and you're getting a warning. Let's get back to work, so the Secretary of State will now speak to the respected Shime Erlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62585	Dear MPs, allow me to warmly welcome you in front of the Ministry of Regional Development and European Union Funds, Minister Natasa Tramišak and my personal name and to present to you today the proposal for a law on the institutional framework for the use of the European Union funds in the Republic of Croatia. First of all, let us begin by just passing the activities that followed here to the moment where we are now, which is so on June 2nd 21st is at the 7th session of the Croatian Parliament, the Parliament has reached a conclusion that the proposal for this law is accepted. During July and August, nomotechnical proposals of the Legislative Committee were respected and these amendments were introduced into the law itself. Nothing substantiative, but just certain nomotechnical changes to the law. Since there was an adoption of the relevant legal framework of the European Union in June, the proposer then amended the necessary articles of the law or carried out the terminology alignment. All relevant ministries of the Ministry of Regional Development and the European Union funds, the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Spatial Planning, the Ministry of Finance and the Agency for the Audit of the EU Programme Implementation System have been involved in the process of drawing up the final draft law. During September, according to the comments of those bodies, the Proposer carried out certain terminologys which are now contained in this final bill. What is the subject of this Law, and why is it important? We often hear and know all together that Croatia is made available to more than 25 billion EU funds, but only what is in the domain of this law or the policy that is put through a multi-annual financial framework to be made available to the Republic of Croatia from the Funds. A total of 14 billion, over 14 billion euros is available and these are the funds that we have made available during the new financial period and through which the regulatory system allows us to make use of these European Union funds. In order to make use of these funds, we need to establish an institutional framework through which these funds will be spent and this law establishes an institutional framework for the use of EU funds for the period from 21st to 27th and beyond. It is also intended to strengthen the capacity-building activities of the institutional framework for the use of European Union funds, of all users, partners and associates on projects financed by the European Union. In addition to the European funds so far, the European Regional Development Fund, the Cohesion Fund, the European Social Fund plus, the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund, the European Rural Development Fund is also covered by the European funds under the responsibility of the Ministry of the Interior, which provides a unique approach for all European funds within the framework of... Management. [[You don't understand.]] This is one newspaper compared to the previous period because funds from the Ministry of the Interior have also been added. So this law will now apply to European funds for the implementation of the cohesion policy objectives. So, these are the European Regional Development Fund, the Just Transition Fund, the European Social Fund plus, and then the Common Fisheries and Maritime Policy where the European Maritime and Fisheries and Aquaculture Fund, and then the Social, Security and Security Policy, where the EU Fund for Asylum, Migration and Integration, then the Integrated Border Management Fund and the Common Agricultural Policy within which the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development and the European Agricultural Guarantee Fund are located. What is important to highlight in this Act and what is a key change in relation to the law we had in the previous programming period, which is that the law is no longer related exclusively to the individual financial period, but it has a lasting nature because it has a co-ordination body and its fundamental functions in the institutional framework and therefore defines the roles of the coordinating body and the programme bodies in the management and control system. Once the law is passed, the key thing is that this law provides for the role of the coordinating body to be defined for each programme by means of which funding will be made from European funds, a key body as the holder of the implementation of this programme, and what is important is that regulations will later define which bodies they are and what functions are, therefore, those lower levels of the intermediate bodies and all other bodies. Of course, this must be in line with the terms of adoption and programming documents, since these are two interdependent processes. The coordination body shall perform its functions in cooperation with the Office of the President of the Government and in this way... with these amendments, the law ensures continuity and through future financial periods. [[You don't understand.]] So we do not only bind it to European regulation, but we set it up as a national law which will be valid for later, which allows for permanent and appropriate assumptions for programming, for the establishment and supervision of the institutional framework of each individual financial period, and to ensure permanent activities of strengthening the capacity of the institutional framework, and we know how important this is for European funds. Through this new law, we know that the programming documents of the new financial period are being drawn up 21. - 27. through which the new management and control system will then be more clearly outlined and deleted, with already known management bodies, the audit body, the body responsible for carrying out the accounting function and will be addressed as I have said through sublegal acts, therefore, through the very regulation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, what is quite important in this Law is that for the first time, it determines the implementation of activities to strengthen the capacity of the institutional framework for the use of European funds. We know how important capacities are for the implementation of European funds. They've been up until now. That's what it's been working on all the time. All previous implementation experience as well as a number of recommendations from the European Commission including... Recommendations from the Council and the National Reform Programme... [[You don't understand.]] The findings suggest that we need to strengthen institutional capacities, and this law creates a framework and opportunities to work systematically on it. [[You don't understand.]] In the narrow sense of capacity, therefore, it means not only employees that this is often imputed to the public in the system of European funds, but also rules and tools in the institutional framework for the use of the European Union funds. What is also one newspaper, which is the introduction of a capacity-building plan for the use of European funds, which must therefore be adopted by a coordinating body and which also determines all activities and measures from the institutional framework for European funds and users and partners, therefore, all those measures that enable capacity building for the use of European funds. Activities concern those key issues that are important for management and control systems, which is how to attract and keep employees, how to enable their continuous training, professional development, improvement of organisational culture, but also other necessary activities and measures are all very important elements that are important for increasing the efficiency of the governance system and control of European funds. The important element is also to simplify and standardise body procedures in the management and control system. It was also imputed in the final part of the law. It is defined in particular how the programme bodies responsible for the management of the programming documents shall consider and take measures and actions to further reduce administrative burdens in the management and control system bodies and to simplify the rules for the use of European funds. We know that this is also an important element, and we are now making this law legal basis so that it can be systematically worked on or that all individual bodies can be asked for activities and measures based on which they will simplify the procedures for the use of European funds. Measures and activities to go towards all bodies in the system related to standardisation and compliance with the rules for the use of European funds at national level are further set out. Therefore, since all the bodies in the system are many different bodies with different practices, it is important to introduce standardisation and compliance with the rules of conduct, these are often the comments of the beneficiaries themselves of the European Union funds. So here and that part of this Act we will seek to improve as well as measures and activities aimed at strengthening timely and complete data exchange it is important at system level since the system consists of a series of different state bodies that are not part of, which are individually whether each is autonomous to each other it is important that this availability of data to the coordinating body first but also between the individual bodies on a continuous basis... For that. [[You don't understand.]] There's also a legal basis. In cooperation with the state administration body responsible for the development of a digital society, measures and activities are also proposed with the aim of optimising, but also the digitisation of, the EU funds process. You know we have a fund implementation system over the e-funds platform. But it is also supported by this law to further strengthen and simply digitise its processes. What I can finally only add to this Law, so it's not a big, big law. But it's very important. You know that we are now in an important moment, which is that we end the previous programming perspective of 14. - 20. We're starting a new one. Software documents are being produced to be in mature versions by the end of this year. We're in a hurry with this procedure. We try to be as fast as possible for the documents to be delivered as soon as possible so that they can then move to this stage of implementation according to these documents and the consumption of European funds from the new programming period. And this Law is an instrument for us to define then an institutional framework through which these funds will be made available to users, and then, of course, to citizens. Here's so much from me right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62586	Thank you very much. Please stay, we have more replicas. The first one's a respected representative of Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62587	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State for the next budgetary period, we will have 24.5 billion euros at our disposal, which means that every euro invested will receive 5 euros from the European budget and that it is necessary to program this money wisely and plan projects that will really give added value to our citizens, the economy and the whole society. I wonder if in this process of programming that I believe has already started and that it has become more difficult to communicate with the field and with those who need that money as one element for project implementation and raising quality of life, and when can we expect that operational programmes and strategic plans will be completed?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62588	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62589	Thank you very much for your questions. So, we have consistently made every effort to make a complete programming process as participatory as possible, which means that we have created a whole system or we have infrastructure based on the rules laid down and how the complete preparation of operational programmes is coordinated, since the whole set of state administration bodies is the first national level, and then those local and regional ones are involved in the programming system itself. It also seeks to meet through working groups the rules and criteria of the involvement of public representatives and private or employers and other and civil sectors. This has been established through working groups which are those who approve or are in charge of defining certain content, the elements of the content of the operational programme documents themselves. A lot of energy is also devoted to including local and regional levels primarily through regional coordinators, as well as other stakeholders.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62590	Thank you. Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62591	Dear Secretary of State here are two short questions. Please be specific in your answer. How much is our membership fee in the European Union, and how much has it grown in the last period? And another question. Explain if you can through this short answer yours, what, how much money is planned to be withdrawn from the Asylum and Migration Fund and what specific programmes does this include?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62592	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62593	So, as far as the first question is concerned, membership needs that question for the Ministry of Finance how accurate it is. We have continuous data showing how much and they are constantly and constantly changing it is a dynamic data that shows and from month to month how much Croatia is in plus compared to payments the versus payments from the EU budget. We are currently in plus about 50 billion kuna which is impressive data so far. However, it is constantly changing from month to month. It's an important piece of information that we're 50 billion kunas in plus. So we got more than we paid the membership fee. But the exact details of the fees are exactly what they are at the monthly level we can check through the Ministry of Finance, so they can be sent to you in writing. Azil and migration, the Fund is in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Interior, so here you are free to answer that in writing through the Ministry of Administration, the Ministry of the Interior, I apologize. So it is a fund that is in charge of asylum and migration, strengthening the capacity of the system for these issues in the highest possible sense... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62594	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected Udovic MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62595	Thank you, Vice President. Secretary of State, since the Republic of Croatia will have almost triple the resources over the next 7 years than it has been in this financial period, can you tell me if your ministry has made an analysis of how much public administration needs to be strengthened to make use of these 25 billion euros that we will be able to make maximum use of in the next period.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62596	Thank you very much. The Registrar of State Take it easy. [[Intruder Erlic: Thank you very much.]] Let me give you my word first. Here's your honorary secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62597	Excuse me. So here is the subject of this law to strengthen administrative capacity that will allow us as a coordinating body to seek and insist on other bodies in the system... with the plan and through this... [[You don't understand.]] the capacity-building plan is defined clearly and concretely in cooperation with the European Commission in clear and concrete activities that we should implement in all bodies in order to strengthen the structures for the implementation of the Funds. [[You don't understand.]] Of course it'll be a challenge to spend all these resources, because there are twice as many. However, right now the word clone analysis is doing for a complete system how much the system currently works on the system of management, control and those concerning the National Recovery Plan... Those who have yet to work. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The evaluations are done so that continuous analysis is done and I believe that these measures will allow the system to be strengthened enough and that we will eventually be able to spend all the funds. We have experience of the previous period and we have already established a part of the system so that they should be faster than in the first period.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62598	The Honorable Greek representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62599	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, it's going slowly for the first year of the financial perspective, so 2021 stands out and we still don't have the programming documents. So, operational programs, partnership agreements. Today, we would very much like to hear when this will be completed and when you expect the European Commission to approve these programming documents so that they can finally start negotiating funds. So the question is very simple, clearly so please also a clear answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62600	Your Honor, Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62601	Thank you very much. The National Recovery and Resistance Plan is the one that will go faster and will go through it by the end of the year the first call for the grant of free funds as regards the Partnership Agreement and the operational programmes are currently being developed. We are not late because a complete EU legislative package was adopted in June. We also adopt parallelly this law which is important for the implementation of funds, so we are not late, and by the end of the year we will have mature versions of documents ready to be sent. Then it depends little on the Commission at which point the first submission is going to them. However, we expect this in the first quarter, after which it will take some time. The assessment is a few months, a month, two, three, difficult to tell the Commission on the approval of these operational programmes. At that time, they should already have an institutional framework in place and everything ready for the consumption of European funds and first calls.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62602	The Republic has a respected representative, Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62603	Good afternoon. I also asked a question on the Legislative Committee, which means how much we paid, how much we got out. That's what you're saying 50 billion. Now we have twice as much money as in the previous period. But when we talk about these billions of euros, then we should be aware that the amount of 22 billion euros is only half the amount of all investments in the pre-crisis 2008. So that amount sounds overwhelming, but it really may not be enough. To get a good insight into these billions, let's say that only America in one year has a budget four times the EU in seven years. When we talk about these means alone, it's not just their amount, it's also their purpose. I will remind you of the EU financing contract Article 107 on conditions of use, where state support is prohibited for anything that affects the so-called so-called State aid. the famous free market.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62604	Thank you. The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62605	Well, it's being noted. We are working to absolutely target as much as possible and as efficient as possible those areas that give the highest added value but the whole series of investment areas that concern our public infrastructure for raising the standard and quality of life in Croatia and which has been shown in the previous period throughout the whole series of projects monitored. There is no part of Croatia that is not targeted by European funds and has not raised the quality of life to a higher level, so we believe that this double-larger envelope and more than twice as much will allow this to happen even more, to get closer to those most developed EU countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62606	Dear representative Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62607	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, so we are now talking about the institutional framework for the implementation of EU funds at a time when, of course, we are all aware that the main people of the ministries headed by the co-ordination body, but also at the head of the managing bodies of the operational programmes are from a party that has just been convicted of corruption. At the same time in this institutional framework, we do not find any new mechanisms to prevent corruption from being used, meaning from programming systems, using EU funds to monitoring the evaluation. So we have no indication that anti-corruption mechanisms will be used to implement EU funds. At the same time this week, the anti-corruption strategy item was removed from the Parliament's agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62608	Just a little bit, please. We have one breach of the Rules of Procedure. Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62609	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague named Bencic injured Article 238. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. It speaks of a corrupt party to Croatia's democratic community. I would like to remind Mrs Bencic that this is how she insults all Croatian Democratic Community representatives and all members of the Croatian Democratic Community. Namely, the Supreme Court has not ruled that HDZ is neither a corrupt party nor a criminal organisation. The Supreme Court has ruled that HDZ is guilty of responsibility, responsible persons in Croatia to the democratic community, not Croatian democratic community, its members and officials.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62610	That's right. I'm not going to give her or you a warning, because what you said is right. I'm begging you, let's not move in one direction right now where maybe a political person is thinking of getting some small points, and it doesn't make sense. It really doesn't make sense, because now we have a very clear and very important topic on the use of EU funds. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62611	Thank you very much. You mentioned the coordinating body. The co-ordination body of the Ministry of Regional Development, the EU funds headed by Minister Natasa Tramišak, has absolutely nothing to do with this. As far as the surveillance system is concerned, the control system you well know that in European funds it is absolutely all formalized and very high-level. Only one point could be used to explain the system and how the control of European funds is carried out from irregularities defined by the regulation itself, but also from the implementation itself that goes through the managing bodies where the bodies themselves cannot be accredited if they do not have such competences and departments dealing with it, up to a whole series of institutions which are then engaged at the Ministry of Finance. Here we have a specially designed unit for these things. We have a network of institutions involved in this, when projects are implemented.../The speaker is not understood. other levels are obliged to indicate whether there are certain irregularities if there are certain elements of criminal offences in certain irregularities, to be forwarded to DORH, etc., etc., so a whole series of systems he's made so [[Intruder: Thank you.]] that European funds are being spent... [[Thank you. We have a replica...]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62612	...respected representative of Pavic, Mark Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62613	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. Well, just the rule of law in using EU funds is one of the key values for which Prime Minister Plenkovic has also advocated absolute control, so it is surprising that we can! which brings people to the hospital of Srebrnjak, which runs the second largest EU project in science where there will be delays in the implementation of the project, finds themselves invited to do so in general. Clean up your colleagues Bencic in front of your yard, and perhaps just to clarify the state secretaries once more, that each competition is controlled by both the Ministry and the ARPA agencies and auditors from Brussels who know that they are currently in Zagreb and are checking. After that, the European Audit Office, the European Court of Auditors, will be able to hear the 4.11. Therefore, such lies and qualifications from Mrs. Bench and insinuations from We can! The moment they godfatherly bring people to lead the institutions that will destroy The EU funds of the City of Zagreb. [[Employer: colleague Pavić.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62614	Comrade Pavić, I've asked nicely and I'm begging everyone else. I'm not going to give you a warning because I'm not going to give anyone a warning for now, and then I'm going to start warning one after the other, because I'm not going to listen to any more accusations on one side about some corrupt parties that are a lie, and on the other hand, I'm not going to listen to things about godfather settings, secret meetings of some people with some people, etc. about staffing in Zagreb, etc. I won't listen to either of them. Therefore, we are working on, it is about the use of EU funds. I'm asking you nicely to talk about it. And I ask you not to abuse then the institutions of the Rules of Procedure, or the replicas to turn the subject into something that will not bring you any political points, I assure you, all of them. Comrade Bencic, you insist on hurting the Rules of Procedure? ... Well, I advise you not to. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] What? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Well, then go ahead. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62615	So the violation of the Rules of Procedure I rarely use for insult and guidance, therefore, lies by, injuries, of course, Article. 238 by Mr. Pavic. First of all, Mr. Pavic, when we see a mistake, we correct it immediately, you still claim that you are not therefore convicted of corruption. The verdict lists a legal person of HDZ who has to return illegally obtained property benefits, and I will tell you further, you see, each of us here can clean up in front of his yard, except you. 'Cause the trash in front of your yard [[Okay, here you are, you're...]] is so you wouldn't clean it... [[Intruder:...used your time...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62616	You've crossed time, you're getting a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62617	...is not all the municipal society of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62618	Let's move on. Dear Representative Oreshkovic, do you also insist on hurting the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62619	Yes, I insist on hurting the Rules of Procedure because there has indeed been a breach of the Rules of Procedure, 238. He insulted his colleague, Bencic, by talking about the insinuation and installation of the godmothers. For your information, installing the godmothers in the legal and political space of the Republic of Croatia with the will of Andrej Plenkovic is no longer disputed. He installed the person himself from the best man's relations to the ambassador's post. And all of this has to do with the subject we're talking about here, because among other things, we're talking about how it's going to be established...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62620	/Intruder: Of course there isn't, so I give you a reminder.../
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62621	...control.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62622	...because you abuse the institution's breach of the Rules of Procedure. Dear Secretary of State, here's your reply to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62623	I have nothing to add here.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62624	Okay. The next replica of the respected representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62625	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Croatia is using the first total envelope of the Multiannual Financial Framework during this period from 2021 to 2027 and that is what needs to be pointed out that it is even increased compared to the previous period. I will say that Croatia, what I know from 2013 to 2020, has paid €24.9 billion in the name of membership, and as you said, so far we are 50 billion in plus. So when we talk about how much the EU funds themselves mean, and you've just managed to actually use part of this previous envelope, and also in the future, through M+3.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62626	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62627	Here, I have nothing to add, except that the EU funds remain key instruments, the most important instrument of implementation of the investment policy of the Republic of Croatia in the next period, we know that huge parts of investment in this previous period have been financed by EU funds, more research shows this in excess of 80% of all public investments, and now we have more than double the funding, so we believe that we will allow a truly accelerated process of development of the Republic of Croatia, which will also reflect GDP, but also on all other elements that are socially useful for the overall improvement of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62628	Dear representative Zmajić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62629	I would like to thank the Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. We have repeatedly been convinced that the financial period of 2014-2020 was quite poorly programmed and precisely because of such programming we had difficulty applying to, for our municipal projects for which we had prepared the documentation, so I am now asking you for information whether for this new financial period 2021-2027, we have simplified and removed the problem that units of local self-government have been holding back and blocking us in the application itself and running for EU funds that are of great importance to our rural areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62630	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62631	Thank you very much for asking. It is precisely the subject of this law, above all, of standardisation of procedures in the EU fund breach system, but then of facilitating the reduction of administrative barriers in the implementation of European funds, so that we learned a lot from the previous perspective, learned knowledge we have translated into a new institutional framework and the Law on the institutional framework, but also all of our practices, the procedures we operate. We have formed a completely new integrated territorial programme which is dedicated precisely to the local, regional level through which local regional projects will be able to finance themselves in a simpler, better, more efficient way because this programme is just reflecting essentially its local, regional needs so that I believe that with these new regional policy instruments, we will be able to support local and regional development even more.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62632	Dear Representative Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62633	Dear secretary of state according to the reports by Olaf and other EU auditors when they are examined and analysed, so over the years, reports show that money is actually being stolen and taken away, so on water supply and waste network projects. So it's about infrastructure projects where it's confirmed. So the question now is where is it stuck in the DORH and why it is still not being processed. And let's say this is an example of where this money was taken from, let's say, our entrepreneurs who would have invested the effect of this multiplier effect in the Croatian economy was much greater. But here someone mentioned was even content, i.e. investment, so here's pure control content. If Olaf and all the auditors therefore warn that the most money in Croatia but also in other Eastern European countries is being stolen through water supply networks why 6 billion kunas are being invested through the IPO again, not more than in the water supply and water waste network. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62634	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62635	Because it is the priority of the Republic of Croatia to build a water supply network on all parts of the Republic of Croatia and to make this coverage much higher than it is now in all urban areas and others. It is also an important element in environmental protection due to wastewater pollution and it is simply a priority for the EU, but also a priority for the Republic of Croatia. Important infrastructures are difficult projects, they cost a lot, but we have no more than an average irregularity in this segment than some other member states have, so they are simply large infrastructure projects and therefore attract great attention, large important contracts and are simply always under surveillance by both the institutions and the public and the systems of supervision and control.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62636	Dear representative Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62637	Thank you. So, in this law, it's written down which bodies are used to allocate funds and controls, but none of them write about how. One year ago here in the Croatian Parliament, we discussed the interpretation and the project Slavonia – Baranja – In the course of the case where EU funds were poured into the pockets of HDZ powerful men and built and renovated hotels on Hvar, not buildings in Slavonia itself. Among other 14.8 million kunas was given to Franjo Lucic's son. We also have an ongoing affair investigated by Olaf, which my predecessor spoke of in relation to the Agriculture and Rural Payments Agency, all supervisory authorities at EU level say that our regulations lack public procurement control, that we do not have provisions to regulate conflicts of interest. You didn't say a single word about it in this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62638	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62639	We did. It is mentioned in the law, therefore, in the control and control system, by the verification bodies, it is also mentioned that the intermediate bodies, i.e. bodies of lower levels, will check and have all functions necessary for the verification and control of the systems of spent funds. So it will also be defined by the regulation, and in that sense, here's the thing about Olaf himself, and I have a report that says that we are from 2008 to 2020. So Olaf was reported 437 cases of irregularities of which 291 systems were closed. This is constantly being done, and as regards your case mentioned for funds in Slavonia, there are no obstacles to applying to EU funds for any entity, person or person who runs any company from whatever party it comes from. Therefore, irregularities can happen to anyone, important that the system is established, that there are supervisory mechanisms in which funds are spent and how the system is controlled.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62640	The Honorable Representative, Opaljak Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62641	Dear Secretary of State, within the framework of the financial envelope 2014/20. The use results are such that by the end of September this year, projects worth 13 billion euros and 122% of the allocations were agreed, while only 6 and a half billion were paid, and 60%, respectively. I'm asking you, is that why? Could they be insufficient human capacity? Whether the implementation processes themselves are too complicated, so here's your opinion and I ask you how you approach better use in order to make full use of the amounts in this new 7-year period and how you take care of that segment for the next period.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62642	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62643	Thank you very much. So this is our first real financial perspective. It was necessary to establish a system. At first, the management and control systems that existed in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, which were in place, are certain. It's been a long time for a complete system to be established, so spending, bargaining was late at the very beginning. It's grown significantly over the last few years. But only in the last year are payments and deals raised for cca now don't take me for a word but about 20%. We can deliver the exact information. This means that this trend of growth is extremely favourable and the point is that by 2023 we manage to get to more than 90% of the EU funds, which will be considered absolutely that the European Commission's resources are absolutely supported rules, ways in an efficient way that is here that we simply manage to spend all the resources that are put at our disposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62644	Thank you very much. I'm opening the debate now, so the first on behalf of the Representatives' Club of the Bridge will be spoken by the esteemed representative, Mr. Zvonimir Troscott. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62645	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected colleagues and fellow citizens who follow us through the screen. When discussing funds, I think that one starting point where we should start might be this last tranche that we pulled from the European Union of 816 million euros, which is about 6 billion kuna and actually looking at the analysis of where that money actually went, so the vast majority of it went to communals, to one INA and our Roman. And when that money is excluded, so very little money is actually left for Croatian entrepreneurs. And we never actually got some analysis of a multiplier effect on the Croatian economy which will be that in the biggest crisis when many European countries invest in digitalisation and in direct financing of larger production projects, larger capacities we are dealing with subsidising interest as far as the entrepreneurs themselves are concerned. On the other hand, we invest money in infrastructure projects. The problem is that the audit has already done its job, it has been warning for years that money has been leaking on water and water supply networks and that it is simply a system where Croatia is losing a lot of money. So the question is, how are we now in crisis when we don't have good control mechanisms, though we got an office from a European actually... where we're going to have a public prosecutor so last year it's open so it's good and we support it. However, we believe that we do not have good control mechanisms to prevent money spills. As far as the funds themselves are concerned, I don't think it's a good idea to discuss it without actually seeing which will have a net effect on Croatia, and we see for ourselves that prices of electricity energy power plants grow from day to day. And when you look at the actually 750 billion-euro Europe level, how long was Europe's debt, 400 billion would actually cost energy. Well, in fact, some real debt must be reduced to inflation in order to get the right amount of debt that will actually be made available to the European Union. As far as Croatia is concerned, we have now taken these 6.3 billion euros in grants. This must be reduced by 2.2 billion euros to what it will actually cost all that energy and electricity that we will discuss in the HERA report. However, the real amount, in fact, of the net amount that we are now actually going to withdraw is 4 billion euros. So it's not the full amount that we are presented but it has to be reduced for inflation and entrepreneurs actually get very little money in that whole story. As for the funds themselves, therefore, Europe has very ambitious plans regarding the green transition. The well-known fact is that the FIT strategy is presented by 55% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions. However, these are extremely radical and ambitious goals for Croatia, and we believe that this will be a much higher cost actually for entrepreneurs who do not actually have any influence on this strategy. If in fact that money is not used painlessly and through subsidies it actually invests in the companies themselves, it will in fact threaten the closures and cancellations of businesses. And why is that? So let's say that if these coins are not allocated in companies themselves, and we are going to invest in infrastructure projects in that green transition, it will have to be financed by the companies themselves within Croatia. There is a different case in the European Union, and we are also talking about competitiveness here. Because if this green transition is much more painless for European companies, therefore, because it will be more funded by the state, then when we go through that transition, Croatian companies will not be in such a situation as European companies. On the other hand, the prices will grow for entrepreneurs? And how? Well, either the entrepreneurs have to pay the investments. God forbid they are subsidized by the Croatian State or by the European Union funds or they will have to pay for their non-implemented green investment. However you turn around again, that cost will actually be borne by our entrepreneurs and that investment will be to them, it's only a cost to them. So they don't have any winnings. We are actually talking about a social climate fund that is scheduled for some 70 billion euros, which will be financed by the European Union itself by 2032. Furthermore, the same important issue is that this analysis that we have touched so we see that the money from the European Union is, therefore, channeled to the most infrastructure projects and to the countries that are linked to the country, for example, INA. Why are we investing in INA? Why do we invest in INA if we don't buy new concessions in Angola where we've dried up absolutely all one source? Very little we can draw in Angola now, it's already going... to its end. If no new concessions are purchased in one Egypt where we could pay through research and development, then the new energy that we ourselves would buy, which we would now expensively pay for, ask God from where. So the question is, and that's the logical question why the money goes to INA. Furthermore, the fact that the state administration is also important to comment on, state officials report or enroll in projects as part of the European Union money team in order to increase their coefficient. It's a common-known fact where and within these towers you hear the question you're on the project. It automatically means that the coefficient is increasing. Now and within these teams within the state administration, then lobbying starts, so who will be the team that will succeed in withdrawing funds from the European Union for reasons why, if they get those funds, they will increase the coefficient and pay. That's logical. So that kind of lobbying is something that's visible everywhere. But the question we have to ask ourselves is that long-term our strategy? Is this something that we want to finance or for reasons that neither funding in infrastructure projects nor projects like INA or, say, these coefficients are therefore an increased added value that will bring us long-term returns in the future? So that's something we have to ask ourselves, and so that added value is something we need to consider, given that both Italians and Danes and other countries are investing in high digitisation, in efficiency, in improving the process of not only state administration, but also private companies. They therefore invest directly in private companies so that, after the end of the crisis, these companies will be as competitive as possible on the European market and to position themselves better with higher quality products, with a better service that will cost more, thus creating new wages, creating new positions, more wages, greater competitiveness and therefore getting better. As far as the control mechanism itself is concerned, what we will certainly welcome is something that was founded last year, which is the Public Prosecutor's Office for the reason that Mrs. Laptos Tamara herself has announced that already some 20 projects are being considered between which Janaf is and will, in this way, be prevented from subsidising fraud. Because we're actually interested in what the DORH is actually doing from today's perspective. This is what the questionnaire of Croatian citizens is, therefore, because the DORH is financed from the Croatian budget. So if OLAF also finds certain finds and certain points in the Croatian economy where money leaks the question of what the DORH is doing and why these things are not processed. In any case, any such mechanism that will improve additionally that the money is withdrawn as effectively as possible, that the money is invested more effectively and that the money is then given the most effective return Club Mosta will welcome, and in this sense we will firstly give support to our entrepreneurs who we believe were much more needed to finance with these money, and with these green FIT strategies by less 55% for this energy and this energy crisis in which we are therefore affected are our entrepreneurs and we do not see a strategy that the Croatian government is helping them in this regard. The big question will be whether the Croatian government will abolish or at least reduce excise duties as it did in 2007. So she didn't have the euro zone target, now she has it, so we'll see how it's set up.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62646	Thank you. The Honorable representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic will now speak on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62647	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues, the respected secretary of state with a co-worker. Here in the Croatian Parliament we have two stops. One of our tricolours is the Croatian flag, one of the official symbols of our country of Croatia. And the other is the flag of one association. It used to be an economic association. Today is an increasingly political association, and that is the European Union. Now, looking here, I'm sitting pretty high, and I noticed that this European something is higher, something about 10 centimeters higher. Maybe by accident, maybe it's one symbolism to let it know who's in charge after all? Because I'm going to say it again, once it was the Economic Community, that's what the European Economic Community was called. Today is the European Union. Tomorrow it might be a European state. By trying to get us into the euro zone and always from this pay phone, but it is not only the qualities of the ruling ones, but even the opposition we speak of the European Union as a sacred cow. The European Union is a promised country. We are getting money from the European Union, and we do not have any obligations at all. Well, Madam Secretary of State Erlic, I asked you just before how much of Croatia's membership is in the European Union. You didn't answer me. I don't know if you know it or not, but you should have said at least an indicative number, and today it's that number, before it was 500 million euros, today it's about 650 million euros a year. So in the midst of the crisis, the European Union has raised 150m euros in membership. It's not fixed. It varies today more than 1% of GDP, 1.2 maybe more GDP of gross social product, which is very much. And there's always talk about how we get a lot more money, we withdraw a lot more money than we've ever paid. And now I'm interested, okay, the Poles are pulling higher, the Czechs are pulling higher, the Hungarians, the French, the Italians, and even the Germans say they're not even down. Where does that money come from? I don't understand that math, I don't get it. I wasn't brilliant at math, but I couldn't even throw it away. But I don't understand how everyone can be in the plus. Secretary of State, you have the right to know how to take the Rules of Procedure here whenever you want as a proposer and address us and explain this complicated mathematics. But I'm going to offer an answer, because the answer is actually simple. The EU is now in charge not only now, but always in debt, when the EU is in charge, I must confess very positively but in debt someone must repay. And you know who's bringing him back? It is returned by all those who are currently watching this session of the Parliament all Croats and Croats and French return. The Swiss are not returning because they are not in the EU, but we are returning that money. We will return it to what I have been able to read somewhere from 2027 to 2058. But no one is saying that we are already paying back the debt that the EU has raised before, or the EU is in charge as Greece, or Greece is in charge of whatever EU you turn. And we're getting more and more in charge every day and that money I used to say didn't turn out to Mom Merkel out of the drawer or she took it out of the safe, or someone started the printing machine, but took it in debt. And that money is being paid back. And now watch this situation, this is very logical and I think the citizens will understand, and you, too, colleagues and colleagues. So, we pay the membership fee of 5 billion kuna a year and then after we have paid, then, as the state secretary here said, we have an increase in capacity for the use of EU funds. We've hired and educated thousands and thousands of people, I've worked on it. I have a great experience of withdrawing EU funds and giving me a salary you know who? It did not give the EU, but again Croatia paid me because I worked. And then the EU decides that we will spend the money we have paid, or we are in charge of that money. I don't know if you understand me. You took out a loan and the bank tells you you're going to spend that money and that's the EU. Not only that, but, for example, from the project and I led more of them with, for example, a million and a half euros. All five million kunas is what was applied specifically, some works, construction, and the other ten million kunas go to workshops, to cohesion, to education, and then millions of kunas go to you know what? At altitude, at commercials, at marketing. As has to be repeated and taught everywhere in Yugoslavia, indoctrination that Yugoslavia is a great EU country today spent in each project 20, 30% of the budget to prove to EU citizens that this makes sense. Well, if that makes sense, the EU shouldn't be advertised wherever it comes from. Why are we spending billions and billions of kunas, billions of euros on proving that the EU is great? I don't know. Does that make sense? But the figures are actually, the figures are exact only you from this place always place them in one wrong way and you show the god's surplus and what's agreed and not withdrawn. So the surplus is just what we pulled, not what we agreed. And another extremely important thing, perhaps the most important thing. We are not only paying the EU to a huge membership fee of 650m euros today, nearly 5 billion kuna, but we, since we have capitulated economics and we no longer have to pay tribute to the European Union every year, every moment by buying its products, the products of our friends from the EU. And that's not all! Because we EU so generously, because we are great Christians, yet we are Croats, Catholics give away tens of thousands of educated and uneducated labour. So we buy their products, we give them labor, we pay them membership fees, and they give us money and they tell us with that money, no matter what you do at that point, you have to build a new sewer network. We have absurd situations. In my Sibenik, I'm not particularly sorry about it, because I may have spent hundreds of millions of kunas on famous agglomeration. The water and sewer network has been restored. However, the same pipes were changed several years ago, and the money had to be spent. Does that make sense? I would not want anyone from this place to understand that we are Croatian sovereigns or I personally for leaving the EU, but I will say this selfishly, however, Croatia and the Croatian people are our first priority. I am that in this highest House of the Croatian People, respected state secretary is having a critical discussion about the EU and that one SWOT analysis is being made, a facilitability study, a cost-effectiveness study to see how much money we really get from the EU, and how much this is all a single farce. And finally, we are the last to develop in the EU, the last of which is, according to the EU's standards, regardless of the huge generosity of the community. It's about one key law, and I think, I don't doubt your competences that we understand each other, but I believe that Madam Minister must have been here today with us. I don't know what more important work she had in her life without making bills here to the Croatian Parliament, if she hadn't articulated this law. Since I have half a minute left, I'm going to point out another fact that isn't irrelevant, it's very important. Within this money that is generously donated to us, i.e. Croatia is in debt there is an Asylum and Immigration and Integration Fund. Read the Marrakech Accords in brackets. How much money we will have to spend on that purpose, unfortunately, will not be decided by us, but will be decided by someone in Brussels.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62648	The next Club of Representatives will be that HDZ. He will speak to the distinguished representative Marko Pavić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62649	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Parliament, dear secretary of state with associates, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a draft final draft of the Law on an institutional framework for the use of EU funds. It is one of the basic documents with a partnership agreement and operational programmes to distribute more than 14 billion euros in funds over the next seven-year period. When we talk about the EU it is good and the prime minister addressed Croatia's Regional Development Days in Opatija, congratulations from the state secretary at the excellent conference and greeting the minister that she gave, at the conference, a clear view of Croatia's development over the next 10 years, and the prime minister there clearly reminded us that the EU is not just the money we are getting, although we are getting significant funds where we are 50 billion kuna in plus compared to what we have paid so far. And over the next 10 years, we have 25 billion euros at our disposal. But from the very counting of money that we have more important values, democracy, the rule of law and freedom of the media, Christian solidarity and inclusiveness, and right now the fight against poverty. We know that Minister Aladrovic recently presented a package with additional funds for this purpose, as well as even regional development. And exactly the means that will be available for the next 10 years will go in that direction. When we look at what we have taken from this envelope, I know that a colleague of Greeks will say how much he used in IPA, but it was only 150 million euros a year. After that, we moved to one 130, 150 million, a billion and 300, a billion and 500 million euros a year, and now in the next 10 years we will basically have two and a half billion. Therefore, significant steps have been made in the amount. Croatian citizens are increasingly supporting the EU. We see that growth by support polls is also for entering the euro area. And these are the ones who measure the flag in the House or don't know the basic mathematics of the European funds, I know it's bothering them, but I believe that mathematics will master it. Croatian citizens have mastered and seen the well-being of this day-to-day, because it is out of this well-being that European funds are changing Croatia for the better, to see better education, better health care, better roads, better jobs. This is why they are increasingly supporting the Union, the integration processes, and also joining the Croatian euro zone. When we talk about a future perspective, they can't look back on the negotiations that I personally participated in, when someone out of the opposition put the thesis that this 20 billion is a follow-up, to get it anyway, or that 25 billion euros is because we're the last one, and precisely because of the good use of European funds, and the current envelope is at 123% of the contract, 60% of the payout has crossed our GDP 60% for 2017. Today, at 66% of the EU GDP average, we should have received 2 billion euros less. But through good negotiations and explaining that this was our first financial perspective we managed to secure not only those funds but the funds from the National Resistance and Recovery Programme from the Pelješko Bridge that has recently been merged, which will be a permanent monument to this financial perspective, hospitals, schools, student homes, the programme "Learn", which is now 2 billion kuna, will be a clear legion or clear stock of the government of Andrej Plenkovic, the first financial envelope. The second financial envelope that comes to us and the secretary of state said well that the whole regulation was only adopted this summer. The operational programmes are now being negotiated, and this final bill provides outlines, outlines of the new EU fund management system. Of these 25 billion euros, 9.6 is the National Recovery and Resistance Programme and it is a faster instrument. We have seen that 818m euros have already been paid into the Croatian budget, that 7 and a half billion kuna will go from this to the entire school's vertical since kindergarten, schools beyond where we will have reformed one shift course. 12% of that will go to earthquakes, billions of kunas for biorefinery, 30% of these funds for competitions for our entrepreneurs and colleagues of the Troscotts we don't have right now, this government has given among the highest amounts for entrepreneurs overall from the Recovery and Resistance Programme 40% for green transformation, 30% for digital transformation. When we talk about these 14, over 14 billion euros with 800m euros in solidarity fund, this law will define the outlines of the management of cohesion policy through 4 funds of the common fisheries policy, maritime policy, security policy through three new funds and congratulations to the MUP to become, to come into the EU fund management family, and a fourth common agricultural policy. There is also different cross-border cooperation with these funds. On Monday, I will also be on a twing project to a final conference in Parliament in Sarajevo where value and cross-border co-operation are just being shown. In all, this law is not exclusively related to this financial period but provides for the management of all funds. The MUP's funds were added as well. It is very important that Article 5 is defined that the coordinating body performs its functions in cooperation with the Office of the Prime Minister. Often we also see a growing practice of managing EU funds in different EU countries being centralized in the Prime Minister's Office because EU funds are an instrument for public policy implementation. And what I am also pleased that the third chapter of the law is the implementation of activities to strengthen the capacity of the institutional framework through three constituents interoperability, simplified procedure and digitisation. If we leave everything now that the structure is the same with the same procedures we currently lack 1,000 people in the management system. These 25 billion euros will certainly require additional employment, but we will not be able to solve the whole problem. And it is precisely this third component of the law that speaks of interoperability, simplification of process and digitisation where we will simplify processes through all these measures, reduce people's burden and thus manage to get all the resources used. And the fact that the euro from this envelope will not fail again, I repeat 123% of the contract. Every smart state contracts 20 percent more to make sure, regardless of the corrections, budget cleaning and all other operations, that we pull everything and we don't lose a single euro cent. In the end, I would refer to the system of controls that the opposition tried to get that here's HDZ is running the state, HDZ is stealing, HDZ is going to steal European funds. I think that's the kind of lie I want to completely avoid. In the management system of the European Funds, it is extremely regulated through four levels of audit by the ARP or the Agency for the Audit of the EU Programme here in Zagreb, the auditor of the European Commission and the European Court of Auditors, where we will be able to hear their annual report on 4.11. Therefore, everything only then comes OLAF and also the judicial authorities. All these systems and adjustments and the implementation and control of each competition are guaranteed, and this is where Croatia particularly advocates the roles of law, i.e. the rule of law in the management system of European funds. To be able to, we know the government of Andrej Plenkovic has shown this and that is why the HDZ Club will support this Final Proposal for a Law on an institutional framework for the use of EU funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62650	The next Club of Representatives will be the Social Democrats. A respected representative, Sanja Udovic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62651	Thank you. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues here at the Social Democrats Club we will choose not to actually turn into the past in this debate, but to contribute through the debate to the government's thinking of taking advantage of me, I would say this unique opportunity to start Croatia. In fact, we are in a situation where the health debt issue has not actually been resolved, nor have the consequences of the covid epidemic been solved, nor has the need for recovery been resolved after a devastating earthquake. We face an extraordinary increase in the cost of life, and also our fragile economy, which we have seen, is slowly experiencing stagnation depending on tourism. And in fact, these 25 billion euros that are before us, I would say a straw of salvation. Now 25 billion euros available to the Republic of Croatia over the next 7 years through the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, and also through the operational programmes of cohesion policy, I would say that Croatia must not miss either because of itself as a Member State or because of its citizens and businessmen. We can actually say that in the next period, the Republic of Croatia will have three times as much resources as it has so far. Three times as many. Why am I pointing that out? Because it is a great responsibility for this government to use these funds in the best possible way and to actually channel these funds into what is needed to raise the quality of life of citizens in the Republic of Croatia. In fact, European funds represent financial instruments that serve to implement EU public policies in all Member States, but of course also in the Republic of Croatia. The money of European funds is also the money of European citizens, i.e. the citizens of the Republic of Croatia as its full member. The responsibility of this government is to invest the money of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia precisely in those objectives that will contribute to the development of the Republic of Croatia and, as I have already said, to the resolution of basic life issues that plague the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And here is why I can say that it is finally good that this Government adopted a number of recommendations from the European Commission, and audit findings, as well as the conclusion of this parliamentary Committee on Regional Development and EU funds of the Croatian Parliament of December 2019 and that it has joined the creation of an Institutional Framework Act for the Use of EU Funds in the Republic of Croatia. As the name of this law itself says here, it's only about the institutional framework. Of course, it will be far more important and important for the Government to adopt regulations in the form of regulations that need to define the implementing parts, and of course with a view to making use of these resources available to us. Here I was also asking the secretary of state if they had calculated the necessary capacity to make use of these funds in time and in full, but here I think that my colleague Pavić gave me the answer, who said I needed 1,000 people in the system. 1,000 people in the system. In these conditions where people in the system work today, we're sure as hell not gonna get those people. And therefore, on behalf of the Social Democrats Club, I will refer specifically to Article 8 which provides for a capacity-building plan for the use of EU funds. This plan contains activities and capacity-building measures with particular emphasis on activities relating to the attraction and retention of employees and their continuous training and professional development. Here, in our opinion it's actually the key to success, and I'm asking you to really respect this, this suggestion of ours, and I'd say in a hurry that you're not waiting for the 120 days that you're about to adopt sublegal actions to approach the development of an action plan. Namely, here I am going to look a little bit at some personal experience as the head of the Viskovo municipality already in the 3rd term. The fact is that, in fact, the result of poor staff management, i.e. attracting and retaining employees in individual ministries and other management bodies, has so far slowed the realization of a large number of programmes and projects. Here I know from experience that some of the competitions, some investors, craftsmen, companies, farmers, fishermen, and local or regional self-government simply had to give up. Here's an experience that can actually confirm these allegations of my is the situation at the Ministry of Spatial Planning, Construction and State Property which I can say is sub-disciplined which is actually not surprising if we take into account the low salaries of officials in that same ministry, poor working conditions and overworking of officials. There is also a major obstacle to grantovnica and catastra's discrepancies, and the resolved property legal relations are actually one of the basic conditions in each application. Here, I'm going to be specific, so I'm also going to plastically process this example here of solving property legal relations as part of the launch of a new work zone in the Viskovo municipality. For this project, the Municipality of Viskovo received from the EU Ministry of Regional Development and funds nearly 12 million kuna, through integrated territorial investment mechanisms, something that is new but also successfully used, the urban agglomerations of Rijeka. And for the realisation of this, for the realization of the launch of the Viskovo municipality zone, the process of resolving property legal relations before the then Ministry of State Property was launched in 2017. So four years ago. The decision to donate land has been given to municipalities, but changes have occurred over the past four years. So the ministry is expanded, and it's been added to the spatial arrangement and construction, and it doesn't really speed up the process. This is what needs to be done, so it is necessary to work on continuity, and it is necessary to realise how important it is for the ministries or public administration to be determined according to the absorption of European funds. I think the government, here's really in this perspective that awaits us both skirt and scissors and that's the responsibility of this government. As a club of Social Democrats, we certainly agree that there is a need to simplify and standardise all procedures, from application procedures to decision-making on funding because experience says it takes sometimes more than a year. In this period there is a change in costs, a change in capacity both financially and human, here colleagues have already pointed out, so all of us who are in municipalities, cities know that we have to approach the changes in the budget that actually any planning and from the basic meaning of the city, the municipalities but also the ministries comes under one large questionnaire. I'm also going to say what they asked me to say here at this pay phone, that approval, waiting for the ZNS means to approve waiting for more than a year is something that isn't normal. So if we're going to approach that way, we can cross over the 100% use of this one, we really have to admit the large amount that's ahead of us. Also, I must say for the end that it is expected, indeed much is expected from the National Recovery and Resistance Plan. I think my colleagues are in the field. All those who have experienced this disaster really have great hopes and... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] It's up to you not to let us down. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62652	The next club of MPs is that of the SDP, and a respected representative, Branko Grcic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62653	Dear Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here I'm going to start on this subject, this is certainly one of the assumptions for the successful management of eu funds in the next seven years, and also a 10-year-old, and certainly I needed it to be a done deal, right, we got into a new financial perspective. In just two months, the first year of the financial perspective, the new financial perspectives, and all these things should already be arranged, I think it's clear to everyone and that it's late. So, no matter what the secretary of state has repeated several times that he is not late, he is late and he is seriously late. So I didn't accidentally ask the question at which stage the software documents are now, so why are the software documents important? Without adopted programming documents, it is not possible to enter into the process of negotiating new projects in the financial perspective of 2021-2027, so we must be fully aware of that. Now look, I didn't get a chance to answer, but here's what I want. So, this projection that only in the first quarter of next year will we actually finalise the documents and that they will enter into the procedure of the European Commission with a step away from maybe two months for their adoption, means that another half of the second year of financial perspective we will not be able to negotiate new projects, so it simply shows that it is late. This is what my colleague Marko said earlier that I would certainly look back on, so I will look back at one other thing, and that is how it was in some of our situations when we were preparing for the 2014-20 perspective, so we really spent 2014 on the preparation of programming documents. It is a normal procedure in all EU countries. However, we competed, although the new member state then we competed with others who would first complete the programming documents and whose programming documents would sooner be adopted in order to move to this second phase, the negotiation phase. We have done this by the end of 2014, in particular one part of the operational programmes was accepted in the 11th month 2014, it is as if these new programmes were now adopted in the coming month, and one part of the programme was already approved in December 2014. Our only concern was the rural development program, and we entered the next year with it. So one program that we entered next year, another year, was a rural development program. Therefore, although we have suffered precisely because of this great criticism, it is now shown that this was not so bad because we were among the first 50% of the EU members who adopted the first round, therefore adopted programming documents. The second big question, of course, is the use of existing money, and that's always the topic we're talking about here, gladly or not. We heard very different data today, some say 50%, some 52%, some that are closer to the government by 60%. I always use data... from the European Commission where there are also very up-to-date sources that show that we are somewhere today at 52% of the funds used today. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The government may actually have fresher data, but I'm using what's available to me and it shows about 52% of the funds paid. So in 8 de facto years not full 52%, we have two, a little over 2. for the remaining 48%. I'm not that optimistic, so I'm a fan, and I want every eurocent really used. This is what all of us who live in Croatia certainly want very badly because each euro contributes in a certain way to development and we go towards some progress, a better standard, etc., etc. But what we are warning is always to encourage in fact the ruling to work even better on that plan, so that's the point, it's not a naked criticism, is it? It is also important to say in which direction this money should go and where particular effort should be made. The current situation when you look at funds, in some funds, is even worse than the average. The type of cohesion fund is a large infrastructure, only 38% used there. Fund for, therefore, ISF so-called Social fund only 29% according to data with... Those above average are the Fund for Agriculture and Rural Development 56% because one part of the money is paid there, you could say, as a helicopter mani, therefore unconditionally in a certain way or in support of the income of our agricultural producers and there is a Regional Development Fund that is somewhere at 56%. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The EU average is 62% and the EU's best countries such as Ireland, Estonia, Portugal, etc. More than 70% at this time of resource utilisation, and I think we should always measure ourselves towards those best ones, even if we are behind them, we'll probably be more satisfied again. What's very important is to say when you look at the structure of operational programs where money is spent best, and where we eat, where we squat, then you actually see that those qualitative I'm going to say components like investing in research and development of innovation or, say, information technology or, say, renewable energy sources of shock. So it's these components that have the greatest contribution to some kind of progress and one accelerated development. So in this section of research and development, paid 33%, certified 25 or, say, those related to information technologies somewhere also around 20% and 19%, respectively, according to the data available to me from last month. So, they're very fresh, they're fresh data. Why can't we still be able to make full use of the funds? Because, say, in the area of the environment, we're completely stuck saying that. So, all those plans to build large disposal and processing centers, the waste management has actually stopped and there's not at all as far as I know, and you correct me, Mr. Secretary of State, we still have a clear idea of what it's going to look like in the future. Mariščina and Kastijun are not doing as well as they were imagined, and for these alternative dumps there are obviously no real solutions and ideas as to what it should look like. Therefore, all these funds that were in that direction will not be used, unfortunately, I say yes. Therefore, and when we communicate with the public, we need to be completely honest and transparent, to admit that we objectively have problems in certain areas, and that is, that is, about it. I will agree with these colleagues and colleagues who have indicated the need to strengthen capacity. Especially I would say in the insurance of extra people. It's about the number of 1,000 people, I was a minister, so I know how hard it is to get people into the system, very hard. It is one of the most dynamic actually areas in the labour market where one significant number of quality people when they learn work in the system, in public institutions they go to a private business or private owners recruit them in a way and they leave. So there's really a very, very pronounced dynamic and it's very difficult to provide enough people. Of course problems in the public procurement system so-called professional complainants who delay the start of the project and months after it started. I remember the project Long Selo – the Križevci that we as a government started, and only managed to negotiate it with a new government. So very, very difficult and complex processes, unfortunately this project is not yet completed and the new deadline is the end of 2023. Here's maybe this project and the best indicator of how much trouble it is in that. He's got a segment. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62654	Next on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club, the esteemed representative, Davor Dretar, speaks. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62655	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Secretary with an associate, colleague and colleague, I will start with agriculture. It is fully evident that agricultural and rural development policies in Croatia have been led for years to the least said unprofessional, lobbying and corrupt way that is in complete contrast with national interests, which has also led to social and demographic degradation of rural areas and has compromised the self-sustainability of the state, which is seen from all the growing indicators of the decline of agricultural production and import growth. Why is that? Because since the start of the implementation of the use of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development, the entire system has been set up in a manner of legal uncertainty, non-transparency and self-will or manipulation of civil servants, deputies and officials. So those who spend it. Given that an increasing number of existing and potential users no longer wish to tolerate such a humiliating and discriminatory treatment, we must warn of the fact that there is a possibility of launching a series of claims against the Republic of Croatia for damages, which are based on the violation of the Constitution and the law of the Republic of Croatia, but also on the violation of the fundamental principles and the EU legislative framework. The Ministry of Agriculture only sometimes leaks data on the amount of compensation already paid by the ministry on the basis of lost disputes. Let's be more specific about the money of all the citizens of this country. The funds paid through damage claims are not EU funds but the funds of all taxpayers. Let me also mention for a moment a case of favoration by the Ministry of Agriculture to a well-known entrepreneur from Slavonia who managed to withdraw millions of financial resources through the projects that we have read a lot about in Croatian media. The gentleman sued Croatia for suspending the payment of support from European funds for as many as 3 of its companies totaling 126 million kuna. The Osijek Commercial Court, in its own time, has wrongly ruled that it is being compensated for damages of HRK 38.4 million. The projects mentioned are one of the first to be registered in a tender opened by the Ministry of Agriculture or the Agency for Payments in Agriculture. At that time, we recall the EU giving a clear recommendation that we should allocate the needs of a maximum of EUR 200 000. But Croatia immediately planned to grab deep into the pocket of the European budget, so a decision was made to allocate EUR 5 million per project. In view of the fact that it was 3 projects, we do not need to add up and multiply a lot, and here we are at EUR 15 million. Only when the media halabuka from the Ministry of Agriculture came the information on suspending the payment of support for the projects mentioned. All due to irregularities and attempts at favoring the ministry, the projects of the said entity had to be rejected and the lawsuits were earned. Of course, the entrepreneur in court managed to prove this game of the ministry and now all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are paying tribute from their pockets. He also proved, according to the court's decision, that the agency did not collect in accordance with the law, since the said entrepreneur did not warn of doubts of irregularities, and it was therefore concluded that it was not possible to define that it artificially created conditions on the basis of which it would secure a higher profit. Short and clear, by decision of the Court of Justice of the Republic of Croatia, one of the three companies mentioned must pay back the withdrawn support amounting to HRK 38.4 million, with heavy interest, and there are also the costs of litigation of one million and 200,000 kuna. There are two other companies with their lawsuits not yet passed, but we can only imagine how it will end. Here are several lines from the report published by one of the European Parliament's political groups following a survey of the abuse of agricultural subsidies, Green and Independent MPs. Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Slovakia and Romania are countries that are considered most problematic in the alliance, I quote "We have seen more and more evidence in recent years that EU funds in Central and Eastern Europe, and in particular subsidies for agriculture are mainly in the hands of local oligarchs related to political elites or large Angloconglomerates rather than being assisted by small and medium-sized farmers," is a real sentence of this document describing cases involving conflict of interest, nepotism or even direct corruption and fraud, and have also come to international headlines. The parallel with Croatian reality does not seem to me to be particularly stressed. The report states that such events call into question the ability of the EU to implement the budget without risking the link to those frauds, but also asks the question, does the distribution of funds in the field serve the objectives it wants to implement in the Union such as protecting biodiversity, combating climate change and the Green Plan? This form of action can be illustrated without a problem into Croatian reality. We can freely call this form a real name, a modern feudalism in which small farmers are actually farmers, and the owners of the country, large companies, or as we like to call them, agromafia gets the most money and rule and act like feudals. As a Country Movement Representatives Club, we warn of the fact that the Republic of Croatia as a roof beneficiary of funds in the event of a lawsuit by end-users directed towards the Constitutional Court may have extremely large financial damages, but also damage to the reputation of the state which has proven to have created a system of implementation contrary to the principles and rights of the EU. Let us also add that some richer parts of the Republic of Croatia have more mechanisms available for development, including all sources of direct funding, while resources from the European Structural and Investment Funds are available to the underdeveloped areas exclusively in the Competitation System at national level. This is therefore an obvious discrimination that leads systematically and to the deprivation of most rural areas of Croatia. The new European regulations on cohesion policy clearly recognises the need for a uniform development of all areas and in an effective way, because that is, the role of the instruments for integrated territorial development. However, Croatia has some so-called ITU mechanisms in which the largest number of underdeveloped units of local self-government cannot enter because there are no conditions. We heard the debates of colleagues and colleagues who spoke on behalf of their clubs, so perhaps just a few sentences. We see for ourselves that many of these investments are intended for renewable energy sources, unfortunately for now we still have to realize that the technological development of these and such renewable sources is extremely demanding, extremely expensive that their usability is quite low. We hope, of course, that modern technologies will provide solutions to these issues in the future. Unfortunately, as always, renewable energy sources are quite fertile soil for various marifettelukas. We also mentioned Mariština as a representative coming from the 3rd constituency, I must also warn of the situation at our dump site of Piškornica, which is in no way going on with its work or work that should be done despite all the hard work and the great money that revolves around the project. We see as well as energy that a few days ago we signed an agreement in which we are a little bit, but we certainly tend to potential use of nuclear energy in the future, so may that also be the idea of a guideline for the future related to renewable energy sources. In conclusion, on behalf of the Homeland Movement Club, of course we are aware that we are part of a large European family and that without mutual assistance and primarily of course the financing of our great mom from Brussels is difficult to move on, only the question of how and for what purposes we will deploy and use this huge money. It seems to me that in many cases we make the same mistake of hoping for a different result. We invest enormously in almost so megalomanical infrastructure projects instead of raising, developing and promoting our own Croatian economy through EU funds. At the end of the day, if we buy them European goods, European knowledge and at a high price for Croatian citizens, we buy an import mind.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62656	The next club of MPs will be that of HSS and RF, and a respected representative, Katarina Peovic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62657	Good afternoon, everyone. Why are they serving eu funds and what's the use of them for us? In various reports, strategies and national plans, it is usually said that I quote "the principle of solidarity, further ensuring convergence and cohesion, and preserving the internal market and equal opportunities for all members", that is to say, to overcome inequalities and to counter the results produced by the internal market in which they compete economically unequally developed. But it is clear that we do not see nor cohesion, nor convergence, and that we continue to have Europe two speeds, mass emigration from the periphery to the centre, the shut down of production on the periphery and an increasingly unfavourable economic structure, one of the lowest employment rates, some of the lowest wages in the EU, etc. In order to achieve any cohesion and convergence, the EU should be a fiscal community, but I will put that aside. Note, 2019. The EU trade deficit was around 60 billion kuna, and it increased about 6% compared to 2018, so the trend is negative every year, only 15% of our exporting entrepreneurs and we have a constant decline in industrial production. It is therefore evident, regardless of what counterpart Pavic said earlier, that the impact of eu funds in this financial perspective is unfavourable for Croatia, especially in trade with the EU, although there is no improvement. This is an expression, in any case, of increasingly unfavourable economic structures and the fact that small and medium-sized enterprises cannot be the bearer of growth, neither of exports, nor of creating added value even though the government argues otherwise. The government is relying on 22 billion euros available to us in the '21st period. By '28, that is, more than the previous period due to the crown crisis, but the question should be why did no development occur between 2014 and 2020 even though we had 11 billion euros at the time? What we forget to say is that the REF is the only one here, I repeat that this is a smaller amount, so that 11 million euros, and we will repeat that every time we repeat that, is a smaller amount than the total Croatian investment in the private and public sector in just one year before the crisis in 2008. So much for these billions, we should have this amount on our mind every time. Or let's say that we get a good insight into that these billions are just let's say that in one year, the US has a budget four times bigger than the EU in seven years, so the U.S. federal budget is over $4 000 billion in one year, the EU budget is slightly less, more than a thousand billion in seven years, meaning something less disproportionate when this extraordinary crown fund is involved, but it's not so important. But perhaps a bigger problem than the amount of these funds is a restriction on what the funds can be used for, or as the institutional framework for the use of eu funds is said in this law. I will remind you of the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU, Art. In 107, which defines the conditions of use, state aid is prohibited for anything affecting the famously allegedly free market and competition. Each time, it means when Minister Horvat came to the shipyards that were being mentioned and summoned as his deputy Novak. 107, which served them as a ID to shut down and destroy our shipbuilding even though he never insisted on privatizing our shipyards. Once we privatized them and completely destroyed them, then we called and the legislation was found in the eu commission, restrictions on art. 107. At the same time, Germany helps Lufthansa with 9 billion euros and enters the property of the company, Secretary of State Curaj told me that it is completely unacceptable for our country to enter into the property of the company that helps. The funds obviously and now we see are not there to help us shut down those export branches that have some potential such as shipbuilding, to encourage the agricultural food industry to maintain and reform, the technological equipment of the textile industry that we also destroy, and all the industries in which we once recorded significant exports. However, they will invest in private companies that, who legitimize our famous technological development, but unfortunately only legitimize them, none of this will happen. One of the two companies listed in the NPOO is the Mate Rimca. The Workers' Front is one of the few parties that has warned on several occasions about public money malversions and money eu funds, so I will briefly sum up problems with the Roman company. So, first and foremost from the funds will be allocated 1.5 billion kuna Project 3 Mobility d.o.o., it is the new Rimcev company which is still after the money from the recovery plan has not even raised the website, which is of course a failure because there is absolutely no public insight. No one is serious in the automotive industry anymore thinks that the autonomy of the fifth level is feasibility in the near future after Guarden announced in 2015 that by 2020 we will have 10 million autonomous cars on the roads, after Eleanor Musk twice announced that he would throw out autonomous cars, 2018 and 2020. And there was nothing of it. Today, there is no company that announces mass production and use of such cars in the short term. However, the fact that artificial intelligence needed for autonomous vehicles will not be developed as part of this project is essential. The NPPO explicitly states that such artificial intelligence will be purchased from the 3 largest companies and what is problematic is that investment in the Roman company is being legitimateized by the fact that we will develop artificial intelligence for autonomous vehicles is said in the NPOO that this will not be the case. What our media didn't instruct that the autonomous system... to get from a company that is among the 3 leading in the world in the area, which is the company, according to which criteria it is among the 3 leading and why Project 3 Mobility d.o.o. to pass on our money to them, not to mention. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So what do we really finance with our money through this project? The thing is actually simple, the financing of what the Roman is already doing, is the development of the battery and electrical system of the power plant and the bodywork. So a few years of financing Rome's current projects and technologies that will eventually be owned by him. What good is it for all of us? Not at all. But even if this project was successful, it is completely unnecessary and pointless, in order to improve the state of traffic of Zagreb’s autonomous taxis. The NPOO predicts 450 million kunas, less than a third of what the Roman will get for modernising the Tramvai train park Zagreb and Osijek together. The expansion of the tram network is out of the question, in this context it is clear that it is a fantasy where the use of new technologies becomes a purpose for itself. But this is all partly related not only to autonomous vehicles but also to an affair with a favourable land assignment in St. Sunday. In fact, the records of the Council of the City Council of the Holy Sunday explicitly state that HDZ Councilman Haluzan personally received a call from Ivan Rimec to speed up and resolve the land allocation process. Ivan Rimac, of course, you all know the father of Mate Rimce and HDZ's privatisation tycoon, who in several proceedings was tried for economic malfeasance, and for one time he was the face of Interpol's warrant for tax evasion in Germany. Ivan Rimac has been involved from the beginning in Mate Rimec's company from the initial loan until he was chairman of the Supervisory Board. It is evident from the above that stories about the father and son are inseparable, which are separated on the grounds that the son is not responsible for the actions of the father and how embarrassing it is that the state gives land, grants support, loans and relief to a company that is connected to a person like Ivan Roman. Councilman Halužan otherwise threatened Rome's threats of leaving the company from St. Sunday and detailed the relations between the city and the ministry and state, the Ministry of State Property in the process of resolving legal issues. It is evident from his words that there was never a question of whether or not to give the Roman land but only what is the legal way to implement it. Afterwards, the mayor sought to delete a sentence mentioning the Roman name because of the negative context and as he said, because then it can be imputed that the contest is set. The outcome is so clear. Whether I leave the furniture tender to you to assess, but for a plot of 200,000 square meters, Rimac will pay the Holy Sunday 20,000 kuna per year, otherwise for comparison of the average rent price of 60 square meters in Zagreb is EUR 568 per month and EUR 6,816 per year respectively. These are the plans of this government for cohesion and convergence. I would say that there are only legislation for allegedly high-tech projects to be invested in, while at the same time legislation for the closure of factories such as Orljav, the destruction of factories where the state has shares, the sale of state assets as in the National Recovery and Resistance Plan. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62658	The next club of MPs will be that of the SDSS, and Anja Shimprag, a respected representative, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62659	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, we are very clear here that the proposed law is a prerequisite for further defining the framework for the use of available EU funds in the new financial perspective. The same exists for the 2014 perspective. – 2020, and the differences are that they are defined and listed the funds available in this fund and were not in the past. After the establishment of the system itself, the Government of the Republic of Croatia shall adopt a regulation that further regulates the way in which the coordination body functions. Then the approval follows and then we can only expect public calls for users. Here I would like to mention an assessment of the impact of European Structural Funds on municipalities and cities with a significant share of the Serbian national minority in the financial perspective of 2014. - 2020. The quality, scope and impact of the absorption of Eu funds at 47 units of local self-government were analysed, in which according to the 2011 census, the proportion of the population of Serbian nationality was 15% higher and 95% of the municipalities analysed were below the average development group. The results of the analysis clearly show that the absorption capacities of targeted units of local self-government are the least developed at the level of the Republic of Croatia and that, in due course, these capacities will not increase significantly without targeted external intervention. These municipalities have limited human capacity, the budgets of these units of local self-government do not provide resources that are sufficient for basic functions and needs. From this, at least units of local self-government have received funds from the Operational Programme Competitiveness and Cohesion and from the Programme Effective human potentials. The majority of the agreed funds were from the Rural Development Programme. A significant difference in absorption occurs in those cities that have been included in the programme of integrated physical, economic and social regeneration of small cities in the war affected areas. The analysis showed that investments in these cities per capita are more than double the size of other municipalities and cities analysed. However, as with the environments not covered by the intervention plans, they do not have the capacity to withdraw funds. All of these points to the need for additional measures to increase financial support for less developed, economically and demographically devastation. Intervention plans for many environments, of course, bring new investments, projects, new jobs, which would greatly help both the preservation and survival of these areas. The distribution of funds in regional development should be strengthened by the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Demography. In opposite areas that are ideal for agriculture and rural tourism such as many of our areas and a good part of the Dalmatian hinterland from which I come will not be used. And now about what's coming to us. For example, we see the core of the issue of public call, agreement and the very beginning of implementation as well as the implementation of many municipalities, cities as well as civil society associations. The deadlines for the implementation of this EU project expire or have already expired for most users in the final part of this year. The help that users have been used to in the last 2 to 3 years will now stop. This very project has achieved a double benefit. We helped older people who needed help, but also women who would not have had this project, would probably not have been employed. Basically, they are not large funds for a developed city, but for the poor local self-government of rural areas, they are often an insurmountable obstacle, and again EU, state and other institutions are waiting for help. The SDSS representative club will support the final bill proposal, and next year it will be highly challenging in this field of work and a kind of maturity test and responsibility of our institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62660	Next is the debate on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club, the respected representative Dalia Oreskovic. She's gone, she's losing her right. Following individual debates, the first is Marija Selak Rasdic. She's not here either. Next is Domagoj Hajdukovic's individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62661	Thank you very much. So, respected representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. We are talking about a law that is not bad as a law, the law gives some skeleton some institutional framework in which we will continue to play, let's say, the exploitation of European funds. But what concerns me in this case is the fact that we leave a lot to the executive authority, or the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which is yet to be prescribed by sublegal acts and action plan. All right, I have to say, and I don't want to just say bad things, this government has put in some good things about some of the documents that are being adopted about the use of eu funds, and they don't need to be discussed in front of HS, or HS's working bodies, we've discussed them on working bodies. However, I have to express my suspicions about a series of sublegal acts and, of course, the action plan that is being adopted non-transparently and that this HS will not have any impact or will not be able to monitor their adoption, we will not be able to follow the way they will be formulated and we will ultimately not be able to have an impact on how we will withdraw funds from the eu funds. This law is a Benigan, I would say, at 14 points, it gives a clear overview of what institutional means of withdrawing funds from eu funds, but it does not touch the core, and the core is how we will do it, which is an action plan and which are sublegal acts that need to be regulated. Therefore, as always, we are discussing something about a problem that has existed in Croatian politics for a long time, which is either to freak out or not. If we norm too much through the law, we reduce the maneuvering space not only of the government but of anyone who needs to implement a certain act, but if we don't norm enough to reopen Pandora's box of abuses of possible different interpretations and so forth. Therefore, since it is a very important law that is not so benign if we are talking about its significance and what should be meant for the Republic of Croatia, I wish we had been more normative. On the other hand, it is also necessary to simplify some processes, to make European money more accessible to all those who need it, but I am not sure that this is the right way. So my personal skepticism is going in that direction whether we're too normal, whether we've left too much to the government that has already shown in a series of times that it's not up to the withdrawal of funds, we want to say the Solidarity Fund during the earthquake, we want to say some other things, and today we're not withdrawing funds. So I'd be happier if we had a law in front of us that would make the government a little bit more concerned about some things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62662	Replica, the esteemed representative Marko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62663	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, Mr. Hajdukovic. So I think this government has just shown how capable it is of withdrawing European funds, and the figures show that 122% of the contract, 60% of the payment. As far as you're concerned about this law you're right he defines the skeleton and that's why the conclusion on my board was that we were going to ask the government to report to our committee when the regulations were ready, but also to monitor the operational programmes themselves. So in accordance with the good practice that we have had together with your committee, I would suggest then perhaps that your committee be at that session, or that we have a joint session and that we follow together the operational programmes that will when they are ready, that it be a continuation of the days of European funds in the assembly and thus contribute to this debate. I wouldn't agree with you if we weren't too normal, but here's what we're going to leave for that debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62664	Thank you very much, colleague Pavić. I absolutely support the initiative to discuss this together, namely the Committee on European Affairs, although it is very much, we will say so, the general and European committees are, or the European funds are in the responsibility of your committee, and it is good that we have one broad discussion, the wider the better and the more transparency we will understand, not because of the government but because of Croatia, because of the end-users of these funds who can and should expect us to say everything that is wrong and to point to any problems in implementation. So it's not about the government, it's not about the political option, it's about the efficiency of the implementation of the plan, or that money is about making it easier for those to whom it's intended, and it's about our entrepreneurs, our citizens. Therefore, it is our function to help them get that money as easily as possible, on this side of my support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62665	Next is an individual debate, the respected representative of Renata Sablar-Dračevac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62666	I would like to thank the Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, with his associates, dear colleagues and colleagues. I will refer exclusively to what we have received in our documentation, and that is the proposal of this law. Reading this law reminds me overwhelmingly of Pantelia’s will “all that I have I leave to myself. ” The state bodies that need to encourage and manage EU funds, from eu funds, are obviously themselves without independent supervision. Further regulation will be carried out by the government through regulations, again without parliament's control. It is a closed system without any external control and insight into the Republic of Croatia. And then the Government of the Republic of Croatia will consider the role of the body within individual management and control systems. The co-ordination body is under the direct patronage of the government's office, but the prime minister also assumes all responsibility, scissors and skirts are with him, so he is the one who is the main and responsible for the realization of all this. I think it's good to have clear frameworks of action, but the framework, these frames are all just not clear, let alone transparent. We're practically going to develop a new network of bureaucrats, and we're just going to see how successful we are in withdrawing funds. At the end of the day, there is surveillance, but there is also EU penalisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62667	Next is individual debated representative Marko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62668	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Assembly, Secretary of State. Well, I'd like to focus this individual debate on several categories, just the ones that can most benefit from the eu funds. First, once again to underline the value of EU membership, that these are not just funds, that this is not just a mere counting of money even though we are 50 billion kuna in plus, that it is a community of values, democratisation, rule of law, Christian solidarity, inclusiveness, and even regional development. And just to look at which parts of these 25 billion euros will be invested in balanced regional development, here I am glad that my colleague Bulj is here too, we missed you in the debates, it is certainly that the project Dalmatinska Zagora, Lika, Gorski Kotar and Banovina, what you have often asked from where, here we now have that it will be together with the project Slavonia from an integrated territorial programme with more than 2 billion euros available. Mr. Grcic said something was late, nothing was late, 818m euros was paid for the NPOO, it was a faster instrument with shorter use times, and the funds would be available for the next 10 years. When we talk about employment, we see that we have one of the lowest unemployment rates, that we have the youth unemployment rate since 2013 when almost 50% were broken today below 20%, that the unemployment rate is a total of 7.4% and 120,455 today, but 17,755 open unfulfilled jobs. The EU's value has just shown up in the crisis when we came out of the crisis in 2008, we weren't members, we needed 8 years. to return to GDP, and the current forecasts are that we will reach pre-crisis GDP by next year and perhaps before the end. The average salary increased to over 7,200 kuna, in the City of Zagreb 8,200 kuna. Therefore, investment from European funds is very clear that European funds are changing Croatia, and people see it and people feel it. From the programme "Wish" that started with 300 million kuna, today it has grown to 1.8 billion, so much so that we have criticism from the European Commission that we can no longer give for "Wish", hence also the reasons for closing the competition, but it employs more than 7,000 women and provides more than 30,000 older households, assistance and care and daily care. Since we gave 10 billion kuna "a support for employment", a good part of it has gone from European funds to the gaming industry in Novska, the gaming arena will be built there. I don't know why my colleague Peović is so upset by the Roman, but we better invest in our own companies that will develop, it's money for research or development, but to subsidize the purchase of electric cars from foreign countries, is that options? The NPOO was programmed in a way that we had to answer to reduce CO2 and we were able to convince the European Commission that instead of subsidising foreign cars, we would give the domestic company. I don't know why it bothers her so much, but we are always proud that we can support domestic employers and a good part of these funds will go to domestic employers almost a third of the National Programme for the Recovery of Resilience of Direct Support, a large part of the programming. So I believe that both by this law and by regulations and operational programmes, we will succeed in the partnership agreement that follows in a well-programming, ensuring their use and strengthening the system, and that is exactly the greatest value of this law, strengthening the capacity of the system to simplify procedures and digitisation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62669	Here's a few replicas, the first one's Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62670	Thank you very much. I don't give a shit how sorry it was for you fellow MP that I wasn't in the assembly for a while, so thank God you couldn't stop you and your government from coming to Sinj during Alka and the Great Lady everything was fine, it was full of Sinj so that even the record results. However, I'd like to mention here's oil is 20 kuna, what have you done? Oil is 12 kunas almost, what did you do? Here's a quick road to Sinj i.e. Cetinski's end for 50,000 people, I know you promised empty funds while you were a minister, but there's no program that's yet to be worked out, so we're waiting for it to be done. The media firm is nothing that can happen when money is given to you in the hands of a colleague of Pavic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62671	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62672	Well, fellow Bull, here I am with the sympathies saying we missed you in the debates. And what Croatia has done, yes, 25 billion euros, is provided by the prime minister, what Croatia has done, yes, has saved 600,000 jobs with 10 billion kuna support, what the government has done next, has secured financial stability and has secured a loan slip with the European Central Bank to join the euro area. We've made sure that this crisis we've been through for the next year. Yes, we are also aware of inflation issues that the whole world and the Eurozone are facing, but the same estimates for inflation are that next year it will be normalised. Therefore, we are aware of price increases, but we are also aware of wage growth and pension growth.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62673	Injury of Rules of Procedure Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62674	Thank you very much. He hurt his colleague. 238, because he just can't say what's not true. In Bosnia, three kunas per litre of gasoline is the cheapest, in Austria, Slovenia, we pay the most expensive gasoline. This was brought in by your projects, an uncontrollable market, a margin of merchants doing whatever they want, people are on the verge. They don't have heat, they don't have electricity to pay for. We increased your salary, then half your salary. There's a worker, there's no minimum wager. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Measures, measures are required of you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62675	This was a replica. It wasn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure. You're getting a warning. The next replica of Nicola Grmoi.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62676	Thank you, Vice President. We therefore from Dalmatia I am convinced from like, from Gorski kotar we pray to God that the project Dalmatia, project Lika, project Gorski Kotar. Because what's the Slavonia project? During your so-called. The project Slavonia 50,000 has moved out of Slavonia, which is expensive for you Požega and Virovitica. And who got the money? Franjo Lucić 14 million kuna, Josip Galić 15 million kuna, best man Tolusicev 1.4 million, Tolusic's former associate 13 million, Pipunić and Ervačić 160 million, director of Croatian waters from the time of Ivo Sanader 12 million, Zovak Donor of HDZ 10 million. It did not help Slavonia, that you share money with your own, and what you are destined for the Fimi Media today is a drop in the sea how much you have taken from the Croatian people.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62677	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62678	So, my colleague, Grmoya, tens of thousands of projects in Slavonia, and also almost 20 billion kunas, the people know and appreciate why we got 16 seats in two Slavonian constituencys. I know it hurts you not to be in power with us for years, but what do we do to you in opposition and you will be in opposition for eight years and forever. But the eu funds are there to develop Croatia, the citizens see it, and you are angry as much as you want, there you are at 5.6% and there you will remain forever in opposition, forever and ever this nagging, eternally being abused by the Rules of Procedure, but let the people recognize it for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62679	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62680	You insult your colleagues and us all here because what you just said has nothing to do with the truth. The fact is that all the money you give for this project of Dalmatia as you gave up Tolusic and his godmothers would go to Calmet, Dujic, Sanader and others, so don't give us these gifts. And the people who aren't here, you know where they are, you know why you're getting a choice if they're [[Santer Invader: Time.]] People went to Ireland, Germany, Spain. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] A liter of oil is...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62681	This wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, it was a replica, so you get a second warning by taking away the words. The following is the violation of the Rules of Procedure, the respected representative of Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62682	He's been injured. 238. I'm not angry at all, I'm not jealous at all, I'm sad when I see what you've done to Croatia, and you're boasting about election victories, boasting because you've moved out and boasting that there's no one to go to the election except for those you've arrested or who you've made up. It's for the poster. And I'm not angry at all, I'm not angry at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62683	Well, you're not angry, but it wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so I'm giving you a second warning, and I'm taking away your words. Followed by the breach of the Rules of Procedure, again by Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62684	Thank you very much. You have injured the entire Rules of Procedure, Mr. Chairman... Because you take away the word every time you are given a replica, when you are given any injury to the Rules of Procedure, but it's true, and I'm sorry, I'm disappointed that the party that was founded and that people fought for from my uncle Mark Vrancic to President Tudjman was brought to the check today. [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] It makes me sad. It saddens me that people have left their lives behind Mr. Sanader, and now you're gonna shut me down, are you? [[Intruder: Time.]] Come on. Be cool. [[Intruder: Time's up.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62685	Your time was up for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but you yourself know it wasn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure, it was your replica. Since this is the third one, I would like to remind you, by virtue of Article 240(2), that is, by the end of the debate on this subject. Followed by the replica, the esteemed representative Stipan Sashlin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62686	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleague, here's only to include the people of Slavonia Baranja do not cry, the people of Slavonia and Baranja did not cry even when they were the worst and the hardest during the Homeland War. And especially not now. I'm glad you take care of our people. But I must tell you that people in Slavonia and Baranja are living off their work they've always lived and lived. [[Intruder: Please don't get it.]] And especially now that they recognize the help of the Government of the Republic of Croatia through the Slavonia and Baranja Project, which resulted in these trends that were several years ago being stopped, the eviction of people. A good part of them goes back, not only do they come back, but we have investors, people who invest in these areas mean private investments, people who create new jobs. So now you're coming to Baranja if you're looking for 10 young people, you just don't have enough workforce for what needs there are in agriculture. And in other branches. [[Intruder: Time.]] So please be realistic. You're only giving facts. [[Intruder: Time, time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62687	Answer, a pardon, a violation of the Rules of Procedure of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62688	Thank you very much. Comrade Shashin was injured in Article 238, you insulted common sense because I don't know which parallel universe you come from. I don't know which Slavonia you come from because the Slavonia from which you come is obviously not the one I come from, where there are no young people left, in which there are only those you love and who are members of the HDZ which makes the Slavonia project clear to you and tells you who gets these funds. Therefore, my colleague Shashin, please don't insult your common sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62689	Since it wasn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure, it was a replica, you have a warning. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a respected representative of Nikola Grmoy, and you're giving up, okay. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Stipan Sashlin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62690	Dear Vice President, I really have to react to this because obviously Mr. Hajdukovic lives in Osijek or I don't know where it is, and it's not just Osijek. Slavonia and Baranja are both Podole and Dubosevica and Topolje and many villages where I believe you haven't been very, very long and you don't know the real situation. In which environment you live, I wouldn't go into it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62691	And you used this for a replica, so you get a warning. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62692	Thank you very much. So by the project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem where exactly 5 Slavonian counties were at the bottom of the development of the total European regions with 37, 38% of the development of the European average, the government focused and started and significantly invested. And whoever lives and talks enough I think the SDP there is absolutely devastated and decomposed. Maybe the new club will be more successful, we'll see.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62693	The next replica, the respected representative, Franco Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62694	Dear counterpart Pavic, therefore, this law is no great success, this is only about the Law on an institutional framework for the use of EU funds in the Republic of Croatia, but on the side of what is not a success. So when we talk about agriculture, when we talk about agricultural funds, when we talk about the use of agricultural funds, please tell me who in Dalmatia can make it happen to European funds from entrepreneurs, let's let local self-government go. Half the cities didn't bring you a plan to dispose of agricultural land, without it I don't believe here's the vice president who sits there knows what I know, there's no one in Dalmatia plot of 50 or 100,000 square meters. It doesn't exist. The only one who has it, it's the state. If we are unable to resolve these properties, if we are unable to bring a farming plan to agricultural land in units of local self-government, write home failed, none of it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62695	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a respected representative called Brumnic, Brumic, quit. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62696	So what I said is it is commendable that we have EUR 25 billion over EUR 4 billion for the common agricultural policy. Yes, there are many challenges, there are many challenges of using the first envelope, there are also a discrepancy of property legal relations that have been being dragged for the past 30 years and regardless of the government will move on, but these funds are a great incentive ahead to finally get rid of it. But the total allocations... which we will have and which will enter towards Croatian farmers, will be more than 4 billion euros of 25 billion euros available. When we look, a third of the National Recovery and Resistance Programme will go right into the private sector, a good part of the Multi-annual Financial Framework that we will discuss must go into research and development of new technology, so I believe that in a good way we will use these funds precisely to create new jobs and ensure that young people stay in the Republic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62697	Thank you. Next is an individual debate, a respected representative of Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62698	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. My colleague actually replicated Pavić, and he answered me, and he should have been punished for hurting the Rules of Procedure, but apparently here are also worth different rules for HDZ representatives, different for the rest of us. I didn't say that someone in Slavonia was crying, but I said that I would cry and that I wasn't angry, but I'm sad that you made this country and how you moved people out. And the fact that there is no labour force is the result of these policies of yours and that there is now no one in Slavonia to do, that is the result and the project Slavonia and everything you've actually done. And so, from the beginning, we've been arguing without seeing who this big money was allocated to, that the Slavonia project is just the PR government because it includes all the projects that would be happening anyway. So now I can call all the projects that are happening, I don't know, in the area of the city of Sinj, and these projects are happening anyway, so there's no need for the project Dalmatia, for the project Lika, for the project Gorski Kotar, unless you have some need and I don't know, government, ministry, push one of your donors, entrepreneurs and others. So there's no need for such a project, so there's a need to see what we can do to contain corruption, to combat irregularities. The question is how much has been identified, how many OLAF has identified irregularities as regards the implementation of certain European projects. Also, the question is whether the DORH in the Republic of Croatia has ever responded to these identified irregularities. How is OLAF possible to detect irregularities, that the DORH does not respond by this? You know how it's possible? The DORH is holding your ladder, and I repeat from this place, if that's not true, let me be prosecuted. That's what I've got evidence for, and I've asked for my immunity to be removed. You have direct influence on the DORH, the Supreme Court, as possible, this verdict was made in June. Waited for now, was he waiting for a detour in the opposition? Was there a SDP break-up waiting? Is there a conflict waiting inside the DP to be announced, and then people will say, well, these HDZ guys are thieves, but there's no alternative. The opposition is broken, the opposition is on its knees. Did you know it wasn't you, but did your boss know about the verdict? In a serious country, after this, if you had a shred of honesty, morals and responsibilities, you'd be disbanded and we'd go to early elections. It's a minimum, and you know, you're laughing, Pavic, it's funny to you, is it, that you've alienated money, that you've alienated money from Croatian taxpayers, that's funny to you, and it's a punishment for losing one election. The election is lost, Pavic, because of incompetence, and when you're corrupt, when you're caught with your fingers in a jam, then the only punishment is that you're no longer involved in politics, not that the prime minister is telling us today that they paid the fine. You paid the fine because you lost one election. I assume you've been subscribed to the government of the Republic of Croatia. It's a punishment for corruption, it's a message you send to both Croatian citizens and our young people. If you're corrupt, for four years you've been on the cold, in opposition, but you're not without, fine the same, same still good. It's still good. It's a message. We will not agree to such a Croatia, we no matter what you say, these ratings agencies of yours,... This one, which you're funding well, which before the local elections gave us 50% lower results, so we got 50% higher. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If we're in those polls of yours at 6, 7, we have 14 now. And rest assured, we will come to power because we are the only ones who are stable, the only ones who are strong, the only one without affairs, and the only ones who are not afraid of you, and the only ones you have failed to break. And you won't break us, and your end is already there. You're laughing because you don't see him, but he's getting very close to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62699	This was consistent with this agenda point, but we also have replicas, Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62700	Thank you very much, comrade Grmoy. Who's afraid of the wolf yet? But okay, about that, then. But I want to tell you one other thing. I don't know what world you live in. Don't you know that the sonic landscape is all beautiful? Don't you know that everything in Slavonia is wonderful because of projects financed by the EU Government funds? Don't you know it's in a series of villages, and I could list it to you by tomorrow, I don't have that many replicas, in, in, in eastern Croatia, in Osijek-Baranja County or anyone else in the east of Croatia, all wonderful and wonderful because we have a project of Slavonia. Why? Because we built a locker room because we built a bike track. That's wonderful. That's great. But is that why people will stay? Well, he won't. Will he stay for the sewers in Sinj? Well, he won't. It's an important problem, it needs to be solved, so we understand each other, but you have one other thing. The EU funds must not serve to concreteise Croatia, should also be used for social improvement, and this has been sent among other things.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62701	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62702	I will not fall into the trap to claim that everything is bad in Croatia and that somewhere else is better because it would help the departure of people from Croatia. In spite of this corrupt HDZ, Croatia is so rich and so beautiful and thank God and a safe country that it is worth staying in and with all these problems that exist, I think they are easily solved and that we will soon solve them. So the message to everyone, don't run from Croatia, those who do this, they should run from Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62703	The next replica, a respected representative called Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62704	Dear comrade Grmoya, you have mentioned many things that HDZ has done in this country and why the people should certainly not give them confidence. Now in this replica of your colleague, you have said one wonderful thing in reply to the replica, Croatia is a beautiful country, Croatia is a rich country in which people should live in quality. How well he can live with this power, he shows the opening of a soup kitchen in Osijek, the cereals of Slavonia. Here's nothing more than that, I think it's the worst thing you can do to someone.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62705	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62706	So I think you should take care of people who can't afford basic conditions for life, food and other things, and as far as Osijek and Slavonia are concerned, I think she's so rich and so fertile that she could not only feed people who live there but also the whole of Croatia. I do not want to be satisfied with the current situation and with what my colleagues claim or what Minister Aladrovic said is wonderful in Croatia and that everything is beautiful, it is not true, but it is also not true that in Croatia everything is black because if we fall into such defetism, if we send such messages from the opposition, then we will not wake the people, the people are in apathy, the people are in disheart, we need to wake them up, I somehow feel that the time is near.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62707	Next replica, the esteemed representative of Zvonimir Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62708	In fact, what is visible in all these programmes is that despite all the warnings of OLAF, auditors, prosecutors, etc., the most money is stolen and sucked out of "water-supply" projects that actually serve as a cover for money sucking, we still see that these money is financed most from the EU, i.e. channelled according to these infrastructure projects. Unfortunately, our entrepreneurs were injured for the reason that the multiplier effect of these infrastructure projects themselves is much smaller, especially when money disappears from entrepreneurs who would multiply and create new posts, more wages and this picture of Croatia that you offered would actually enlarge them and then we would actually build that entrepreneurial structure. Unfortunately, what has happened today is a confirmation that it is impossible and that entrepreneurs are the ones who suffer the most together with our citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62709	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62710	So I'm aware that most of the resources we have at our disposal should be invested in our craftsmen, in entrepreneurs, in our agricultural economies, but I'm also aware that without infrastructure, therefore cities, municipalities, our units of local self-government can actually function in a normal way because now the other question is whether we have through these projects certain malversions, what is done and whether this money is used and we see that innovation in those who are prone to it is very large and then every such project, especially one where big money is concerned, can be used for the negative. This does not mean that in Croatia you should not go into these projects or that you should actually completely give up any investment in infrastructure because some local head of money spent in an unknown, non-transparent way either it was a bargaining or anything else. This should be investigated, by those responsible for it, and not to repeat it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62711	Next replica, respected representative Marko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62712	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament. A fellow Thunderbolt, so here's what we see from... This new Social Democrats club in replicas with the Bridge, we'll see what a new path this is, but corruption has a name, has a name, has a last name, and I won't let you have such flat-logged labels. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When we talk about OLAF, about cohesion, they were in line and number four of the applications we know. The EU's money spending control system is very rigorous. First, the internal audit takes place within the system of the managing body PT1, PT2, followed by the ARPA paying agency from Brussels, then the auditors from Brussels come to see what was not good, after which the European Court of Auditors calls you 4. 11th to attend a joint session, a European Court of Auditors report will be presented. So this labeling when we have a system like this and when the European Commission has learned in both Bulgaria and Romania, don't do that, bring the mess into the system.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62713	Time. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62714	So, my colleague Pavić, I did not see any special agreement except that we agree with the Supreme Court's verdict, so it's not any label sticker, here we respect the judgments of the Croatian judiciary which are today and powerful, so HDZ is a corrupt organisation that has been pulling money through the Fimi Media and that money from Croatian taxpayers. If you mean agreeing, we agree, there are very many people from different parties who agree about it, or actually repeat what the Croatian judiciary has said. So as for what you're saying, there are irregularities, I've asked why under these irregularities the State's Attorney's Office didn't respond, you haven't answered me or given me any answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62715	Next is the replica of the respected representative Marijana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62716	Thank you. As you comment, I will return to the scale of this law, how you comment that the proposed law will, therefore, define the coordinating body, the programming bodies, however, do not define their role or function, nor who is a member of those bodies will already be defined through government regulations or through any other sublegal acts that will not come into public debate at all, nor here in parliament. Are there any elements to doubt again some kind of corruption? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62717	Well, everything and every decision, therefore, that seeks to avoid any debate and which is made under the grain, of course, that there may be certain doubt. I do not want to believe that this is the reason that this is not defined even after all this which we have witnessed not only today, so this has been this one for a long time, but also what is happening, so when we look at this project of Slavonia, the way the money and the funds have been allocated, of course, we have the right to question everything this government brings and what it suggests, so it's clear to us. After all, we are a political option that has twice gone to new elections, meaning the only political option she has signed to disband the parliaments. I wasn't a representative at the time. There were 12 of my colleagues. I remember in the SDP it was a celebration, hoping to win those re-elections, Milanovic also ordered the caterer, but this one couldn't believe that we would. That we're gonna sign this for the disbandment of the assembly, but here's more luck next time. [[Intruder: Time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62718	Next replica, respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62719	Thank you very much, Vice President. As you see yourself as a political ace, I'm a little surprised that you've spoken a sentence saying that the elections are incompetent. Well, you're 2017. You went to an election race in Dubrovnik-Neretva County for the mayor and lost to the man you said was old, that the pensioner, etc., you lost convincingly. Then Bozo Petrov repeated the same procedure in 2021, and he lost to him. And now you're saying that the election loses incompetent, and all the time you're talking about yourself as a major political ace who obviously doesn't want to be held accountable for such defeats. They're losers, not winners. When you lose then you're carrying some responsibility, but there's no choice with you, there's a bush in that bridge. So don't put people down or try to bring them down to the 6% you have, so you represent the people, let you people, the people always know what they're going to do. He said a year ago, he'll say in three years, and it's up to you to take responsibility because you're incompetent. That's what you found out yourself and said here several times.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62720	Time, time. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62721	My colleague, can I? My colleague Boric, so I said that punishment for incompetence could be a loss of choice, which Yeah, yeah, yeah, and that doesn't mean [[/Intruder: No, no, no.]] and that doesn't mean, and that doesn't mean that any loss of choice is incompetence. [[Please don't, don't.]] So I'm the first candidate to enter the second round with HDZ candidate in Dubrovnik-Neretva County, and Bozo Petrov almost beat him. You know... Yeah, yeah, yeah, it was almost... [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] and that almost, it was almost, and you know how the election in the county works and how hard it is to win HDZ because people for the election are not interested, especially when in the second round you don't have a second round of choices for most cities and municipalities. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] So it's well known to you, but you've also set up this electoral system, so it suits you. I lost that election, and I have no problem with it. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62722	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62723	Thank you very much. Art. In 238, Mr. Grmoy demeans me because he utters a sentence he uttered. The thought in a different way than he said it, it can be checked in a phonogram, meaning from running away from his own sentences because he knows he said wrong and that he's right in fact a real loser, an incompetent politician who's lost to a man he says is old, that he's too old to be mayor, so what kind of politicians are you, you and Mr. Petrov? And as for his colleagues, Bulja, I see that you're his advisor, tell him to share buckets with the citizens because his town of Sinj, according to the latest report, is only 0.2% waste. Help him. [[Intruder: Time, time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62724	The following violation of the Rules of Procedure is the respected representative of Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62725	You really want me to say I'm a loser. I am a loser, Mr. Boric, so here I am, but every night you know how well I fall asleep. So when I come to sleep nice and quiet, I enjoy it because I know I haven't done anything to this people. I don't know if you can sleep peacefully as a secretary from the time of Sanader's government. And as for Mira Bulja, you were there to support the mayor, Miro just took it, it's going to be now, it's going to be a lot more waste. We'll get rid of the waste anyway. [[Intruder: Time]] That's one of our main points of the program.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62726	Time. We have as much as Boric's warning that this is your third warning, so then you lose your words until the end of the debate on this subject... It's not you, it's Mr. Bolt. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] Next, but you have received a warning, followed by an individual debate by distinguished representatives Sanja Udovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62727	I would like to thank the Vice President, my colleagues and my colleagues, the Ministry's representatives. Here's an individual debate I'm going to use to actually touch back some of the things these 14 articles regulate. In particular, as regards the assessment and sources of the necessary means of law in the law itself, it is concluded that the adoption of this law will not require the provision of the necessary financial resources in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia or that the body in the institutional framework established by this law is state administrations and public authorities, and the means for their functioning and work are already provided in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia. And that's right. It is certain that the funds are already provided if we will plan the next period in the settings that are in force now. When we talk about capacity building, primarily human resources, I look again at human resources because we need personnel in order to implement the absolute absorption of the resources available in the future. And I'll come back as a socialist for the pay, paid by people who work in the public administration. I think we need to talk about this. You can't expect an employee who works now under average pay, and a graduate is a construction engineer or a graduate lawyer that he'll do the job you're going to put before him. So we're not going to make it that way to the resources available. I think it's a good time to deal with public sector wages. I absolutely don't support the attitude that this is about some kind of earring, these are people who have to do the big job that's in front of them. And that's why I think this particular finding in this bill just doesn't stand. Furthermore, I will look back at two points that are most important to me, and that's the program, so we're going to programize the next financial period because experience is saying that so far, too many social homes have been built, too many kindergartens, too many fire departments, that there's been a infrastructure that's not fully operational right now. Therefore, there is a need to carry out good information, quality analysis of the projects reported, that is to say, that every kuna or euro or cent should come where it should and benefit the citizens of the Republic of Croatia because they are the ones who paid that cent to the EU budget. Furthermore, we can really say that in this next period, the Republic of Croatia has a great chance. I would say and repeat my thinking that this is a straw rescue given what we are currently in the situation, how our citizens live, how the prices of all products on the market rise, how the prices of our economics services are rising, and that is what we have to deal with and what we need to think about and what we need to focus on the resources that will come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62728	Replica, you have one replica, distinguished representative Ankica Zmajić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62729	Thank you. Dear colleagues Sanja, listening to your debate a little encouraged me, the other day I saw that you laid the cornerstone for the construction of the Hallubai Bellbearer's house, a project financed by the European Regional Development Fund under an operational programme of competitiveness and cohesion worth around 8 million kuna. And it's one of a series of projects conducted by JLS, but not in Slavonia and Baranja, not in HDZ forts, but in the municipality of Viskovo and in the Primorje-Gorski County. So please tell me, dear colleague, is this project important to you, how important it is to you, and do you expect new employment when you realize the latest projects? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62730	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62731	Here I thank my colleagues for the question and I see that you are following what is happening in the municipality of Viskovo, the largest municipality in the Republic of Croatia and we must be satisfied with this project, not only us but all of us in the Primorje-Gorski County, since this is a project recognized by the Ministry of Culture, by UNESCO, has some future to become a national centre of immaterial cultural heritage on the list, on UNESCO's list. You've said 8 million exactly, here's what we expect is a decision to be made and related to covering its own participation, so these funds are going to be bigger. And here we can talk about the capacity to withdraw European funds. So local self-government is important, it's regional, it's important to strengthen our capacities as well as the capacity of public administration because, as I said, these are large-scale assets that go in favour of all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62732	Followed by an individual debate by the respected Vice President Sabine Glasovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62733	Thank you, Mr. Vice President HS, Your Honor, Secretary of State with an associate, This law is an institutional framework, a protocol with a tendency to ensure all the preconditions that are necessary in order to achieve this budgetary perspective by 2027. as successful as possible in the withdrawal of European funds. But if we don't learn something from the past, from the mistakes we've made in the past, I'm afraid we're not writing well. What is necessary, what is necessary to talk about when we are discussing and on this bill, is the dynamics that are being withdrawn from EU funds, that is the usability and obstacles we have faced when we talk about the lower usability of European funds so far and equally, but not less importantly, the directions in which European funds will be dispersed, or what is important to all of us in the Republic to go into the right hands. When we talk about the current situation between 2014 and 2020. from the European Structural and Investment Funds of the Republic of Croatia, there was a total of €81.56 billion. The Republic of Croatia has invested in the EU budget 23.98 billion kuna, which could be concluded that the difference of $43.15 billion in favour of the Republic of Croatia's budget is something that is positive, so we have made more payments than we have withdrawn. As of 11 August 2021, a total of 99.68 billion projects were agreed, something we cannot be satisfied because only 48.3 billion kuna and 58.89% of the allocated funds were paid out. Of which 40.7 billion kuna and 49.13% of the allocated funds were certified, and these are facts and these are facts. My colleague Branko Greekic said something about structure, so if we're talking about average, we can't be satisfied with it, the average at EU level is 62%, Croatia is here at 52.2%. However, if we are talking about specific segments where we have specifically scheduled, and that is to say, if we talk about the percentage paid on the allocation, only 33% of strengthening the economy by applying research and innovation that should actually be the generator of the economy. Equally, the contribution to the mitigation and removal of the effects of the earthquake, contracted 76%, paid 0, certified 0. Use of information communication technology, paid 12%, 9% confirmed in the location. When we talk about the operational programme of competitiveness and cohesion, from 2014 to 2020. If we're talking about the ESF. Or the OP, effective human potential, then we're actually below the level of education and lifelong learning. So, contracted at 96%, paid 38%, certified 26%, and smart administration, agreed 86%, paid 34%, certified in the location 15%. Likewise, if someone doesn't understand how important it is for the labour market and for the benefit of this society's lifelong learning and education, then I don't know what I'm talking about here today. It's important to point out four important things. The rule of N+3, however, slows the withdrawal of funds and it can be said that these data and others I have talked about are also the reason, and 3 additional years after the end of the formal budget period, with the natural administrative difficulties which are major brakers, but this rule N+3 is as important to us as Bulgaria, as well as to Romania, because we are new member states and we are somewhat clumsy and especially Croatia is inefficient in withdrawing European funds, so that this fact that we are still worth rule N+3 saving for us. But what is important is to say that the amount of resources available to countries in the next period until 2027 is determined by the keys to distribution and points to the weakness of the economy, meaning that the more funds we get, the more we actually say that we are weaker in the economy and not that we are excellent in the negotiation and that the Croatian government has done it in a material way. Not unfortunately, because the key on which the funds were allocated until 2027 was the number of inhabitants, the reverse GDP per capita. Average unemployment rate from 2015 to 2019. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] So, mind to head and learn something from both this data and bad practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62734	Next is the individual debate of the respected representative Marijana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62735	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, so here for the end of these individual discussions, this is the Law on an institutional framework for the use of EU funds in the Republic of Croatia, which we have been bringing since one year of this financial framework that we are talking about, from 2021 to 2027, programming has not yet been completed, so the perspectives from 2014 to 2020, 2021 to 2027 are overlapping. Some excuse that the European Commission was late, so here we are. Over these years, the EU has developed a wide range of funding opportunities through European funds to help less developed, less developed regions strengthen the competitiveness of the entire community and it is very important to allocate these resources into those industrial branches and projects that are of primary strategic and public long-term development importance. The withdrawal of European funds alone is not an automatic guarantee of economic development and economic growth, but it certainly represents one aid that is not well missed and, as we have heard from here, it is also very important for the withdrawal of these funds, so their ability to design quality projects and monitor competitions that are compatible and which these projects could finance. We have also heard here that the period has passed and of some of the members of the HDZ that the past period has been very poorly programmed, there have been a lot of administrative problems and it is said that this law will try to standardise all this to improve this level of usability over the next period and reduce needlessly complicated administrative procedures in the competition. However, this law has given us only the framework of details and procedures, so we do not see how these details themselves on the ground will look and here, as I mentioned in the replica, so here is the coordination body, its basic functions are defined here through this framework, the programme bodies for the implementation and revision of the programmes, however functions and responsibilities of the same bodies, and how these bodies function, will be further regulated by the regulations of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So, through regulations and through some new sublegal acts that will not go through a public debate, no consultation will go through. It won't go through this parliament, it's like you have a frame, but you don't have the whole picture. The same question as with the National Resistance and Recovery Plan? He's got a whole other logic, so he doesn't follow this institutional framework, maybe he's relying on it, but here for him is the coordinating body of the Ministry of Finance. So he has a whole new logic. As we stand by the use of funds in relation to other European countries, we are, so Croatia is 4th at the location of the funds compared to the number of inhabitants, behind Portugal, Greece and Romania and by absorption we are 22. So here, when you look at the European Commission's pages, they follow it very closely and update the data every day, so the total budget of allocation in the past period, there were some 11 billion there according to their data, so even 14 billion, agreed 16, paid 7, so 52% paid out. It's interesting to see if it's on that page and it's so open data, you can analyze it yourself, it's interesting to see if, what all that money went to, so it's for means for example. for entrepreneurs, funds were agreed for 16 500 companies and paid for 9, 9000. For starting up's there's a better ratio, 3000 paid for 2200. For example. In order to preserve biodiversity, 900 ha has been agreed, paid for by 10. Energy efficiency of public buildings, agreed 212 million kW per year, paid 39 million. School renovation, budget for 61,000 people, agreed for 16,000, paid for 17,000. When we look at, say, in Bulgaria, if we want to compare with someone, that ratio is much better. They say here from here, in the last four seconds, I just wanted to mention that one project waiting for decades in Dalmatia to be financed from EU funds, the fast road Trogir-Omis, The busiest road in Croatia is waiting, until then Slavonia flourished through her same project. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62736	We have two replicas, the first respected deputy vice president Sabina Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62737	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Puljak, I agree with you that it is important for the funds to go in the right direction, to encourage some economic activity and also to encourage the creation of new jobs, but the problem is that in the state administration other than this problem we have with the withdrawal of funds, i.e. about the funds paid, we do not have a system to monitor the effects of the funds withdrawn. I mean, we just don't have at the level of some company tracking the number of new jobs, we don't even know today except that 20,000 projects are in the so-called. The project Slavonia-Baranja and Srijem, that 16.5 billion allocations, we do not know what the real effects are, how many new jobs are opened, which contributed to the economy, agriculture, etc. And we don't have an estimate of the effects of the tide. It means something to invest and invest in Krapina, which is the effect of spilling over into Krapina-Zagorje County and the surrounding municipality.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62738	Here I agree with you, I can mention one of the effects of the Slavonia project, so Slavonia-Baranja and Srijem, one of the effects is that it is an open hotel in Rab. If you didn't know Rab, the 10th largest island in Croatia, is located in Slavonia. Well, that's the results of the project. Here, congratulations.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62739	Next replica, respected representative Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62740	Thank you. Here, my colleague Puljak, I wanted to ask you when we look at the structure of the new comparative programmes, and the fact is that the integrated territorial programme has a slightly larger role in the new financial perspective, but while we still, uh, can take off the mask, there is still no significant decentralisation of funds from European funds to regions, and even urban agglomerations, although we have this programme here, and we are going to have it now and county centres, but what is not actually seen is that there will actually be a more significant decentralisation of funds and it is seen in some way that we have not taken advantage of the first financial perspective, that we are more significantly strengthening our capacities at regional level, that they are self-managing and implementation of funds, so I wanted to hear from you how you view it from the position of the city of Split.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62741	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62742	Absolutely with you, what I'm saying is, projects and agglomerations, and these mechanisms go to some of their own time, but that's why I said that this law, it brings some kind of frameworks that are unclear to the details again, the details are going to be solved again by some regulations, some kind of sublaws, regulations, etc., which the government is going to bring, is, we're not really going to have any influence, so we actually have this law, what I said, we have a framework, and we don't have a picture. We have some sort of light frame about it, but we don't really know the details, we don't know how the government, who's going to be in that coordinating body, how it's going to work, what these programming bodies are going to look like, and we don't really know anything about it. And I agree with you that it's not yet decentralised enough. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62743	And the last replica, Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62744	Thank you very much. My colleague Puljak, so I don't know, you know there's an island in Slavonia, there's in Dalmatia though, but there's an island... But the joke aside, in part, and what my colleague said before me, so it's not a problem in this institutional framework, it's what it is, I say, it gives us a skeleton as you say, it gives us a framework, but it's much more important what will be in action plans, it's much more important what will be in programming operational, so that's all we as a Croatian Parliament have no interference except perhaps informative. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I will lie to say that we have not been informed of certain things, we have, but that we could influence them, realistically, we are not and will determine how and where we will channel this money because at the end of the day, concreteising Croatia more glass and more asphalt is nice, but whether it will create new jobs, as you said, whether it will generate development, whether it will keep young people in Croatia, I'm afraid not.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62745	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62746	Here's absolutely I can only agree with you, as is the project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem itself, many times we've heard about it, and we see in what state Slavonia and Baranja and Srijem are now in today's state after that, whether, as I said earlier, the grand project and, therefore, we don't know the details will happen again in some halls of ministries, in the halls of government, without our influence as you say, we may be informed but informed as the general public in the media when the matter is already over, without any real impact on any decisions that will be made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62747	Following the final debate, the first Green-left bloc representative club, respected representative Sandra Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62748	I thank you, Chairman. Dear Secretary of State with an associate. So, one of my main problems with the absorption of funds in the first financial perspective was indeed a complicated institutional framework, both in terms of programming and the number of ministries that actually participate at the programme level, but also in terms of the number of implementing bodies and different practices that the implementing bodies had in the implementation of a concrete... That is, we had situations where SAFU has one practice in many things, that HZZ as an implementing body has another practice and that for a very long time there has been no harmonisation of certain things and even some technical accounting issues that have been really difficult for a long time. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, what we had in our first financial perspective, and I remember this well, is that at least in terms of the European Social Fund and the works concerning civil society, there was indeed a long consultation process in which a large number of civil society organisations participated. What was created as a result of this and the fact that certain funds, in fact, a significant part of the funds allocated to civil society organisations that are in the field of human rights democratisation, were not even announced later on about competitions, that these tenders were delayed from year to year and that in the end these funds were not allocated, some of them were cancelled, we now see this, so we saw it in the implementation in the financial perspective we had so far, and now we can see it already in the programming process. So what we see now is that, first of all, there is no broad consultation process with civil society organisations, and especially not with those civil society organisations that have otherwise proven to have great capacity to withdraw EU funds and receive large projects in centralised Brussels competitions, that is the first thing. The second thing, what I have as information, correct me if I'm wrong, I'd be very happy to make a mistake is that 600 million for the organization of civil society, that the funds were cut to 6 times, so to 100 million. What we are particularly interested in is what stage is the programming of this part of the European Social Fund, and for which fields will the funds be allocated to civil society organisations, or what will be the priorities? Because what you've seen is that this existing government is continuity in the last five years is a priority so-called. Socialisation of civil society organisations or the conversion of civil society organisations into mere social service providers where they are also placed on the market from project to project, and on the other hand, the key means where we should have had the most and most significant competitions to fight corruption, democratisation and to strengthen the culture of respect for human rights, are not either allocated and ultimately not sufficiently announced. I would like to stress that if this happens again in this financial perspective now in programming, that this shows the government's clear intention that civil society organisations in the field of fighting corruption, democratisation and human rights do not need it. Because they don't have any other means anymore. And there's one more thing I want to point out before the end, and that's the complete minorization of the government's Association Office in the whole process so far. So, what seems to me is that the Government's Office for Associations is being pushed aside, that there is also an intention to abolish it, that it is not sufficiently involved in what they have done best, which is the organisation of the consultation process with civil society organisations in terms of the contribution to the ESF and that it is generally not working, has actually stopped working on the Civil Society Development Strategy, which should also be reflected in the new ESF, i.e. in the new operational programme covered by the ESF. So it seems to me to be going somewhere in that direction, I stress this because I know that there are strong human capacities there for that kind of programming and I don't think they're used enough. I will stress, if there is no democratisation, no protection of human rights, no fight against corruption in the new financial framework, then we know that this government is not even a priority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62749	The next final debate is on behalf of the Social Democrats' Club of Representatives, the respected representative Sanja Udovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62750	Thank you. So, after this lengthy debate, on behalf of the Social Democrats Club, we can conclude that, in fact, in the very opening explanation of this law, the promoter also found that this is based on a number of recommendations made by the European Commission, based on audit findings. So the review gave us the package, gave us the European Commission's package, the parliamentary committee found that it was necessary to go into a bill like this. And it's actually saying that we have to learn from mistakes and that it's the result of these mistakes and this law. The law itself is a framework, here's someone who's beautifully picturesquely said, a frame without a picture, and actually it's a matter of essence, it's a question of image, and we're just going to find out about it because we're not going to decide, we're just going to find out, and then we're going to ask the question of transparency, the transparency of this whole process of granting these huge financial resources. Of course we are here to seek if nothing else through the state audit reports how and how European funds will be spent. Of course, at this point in time, the stage that has already moved away is important programming. We have already looked back at the government's programme responsibility to set goals in a way that allows the resources to reach the citizens of the Republic of Croatia or to meet their life needs, and life needs are primarily met with income. So, the question of where we're going to invest, I don't think we have to ask at all. We need to secure jobs, these jobs must ensure the income enough to live, and then we can discuss improving social infrastructure that will naturally enrich the lives of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. So the aim of adopting this law, but primarily sublegal acts and action plans, must be to improve the situation in which our country is located and where the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are. And there must be an important emphasis on these 9 billion and 600 million euros for the exactly operational cohesion policy programmes for the 3 operational programmes of competitiveness and cohesion '21-'27, the integrated territorial programme '21-'27. and operational programme of effective human potentials '21-'27. and precisely this amount of 25 billion euros is the amount which binds this government and all stakeholders in implementing clear EU policies and the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62751	Followed by HDZ Representatives' Club, respected representative Marko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62752	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President, Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. So here's the final word on behalf of the club I'd like to sum up the reason for the support on this final proposal for an institutional framework law. It certainly represents a step forward in simplifying the process and managing European funds for the next 10 years. It does not have a period, therefore it will apply to all EU funds, we appreciate the contribution of the same funds that will be managed by the MUP and we congratulate Minister Bozinovic on coming into the system of European funds management. Once again for the next 10 years. We have 25 billion euros at our disposal, about the first 10 we had a debate in the assembly through NPOO, European funds change Croatia, European funds provide better health care, better education for our citizens, the development of railways that will be a major focus in the next period, Dubrovnik airport, Split, many of the same burdens of this crisis, are financed from eu funds, all equipment, masks from China, respirators and billions of kuna funds sent to protect jobs, 10 billion kunas have been saved almost 700,000 jobs. We said that this is a step forward, that this is only the first of important documents, followed by a partnership agreement, operational programmes, regulations, but I believe that we will also have a quality discussion about it further. I'm sorry that my colleague Bencic wasn't there when I also said we'd have a debate about the regulations, as well as the operational programmes in HS. I call on her to include, together with all MPs, all these criticisms or doubts there, to discuss once again the funds for both civil society and research and development funds for young people, for employment, for infrastructure, for hospitals, schools, after all, and for what is important, and that is the green and digital transition of the Republic of Croatia. These 25 billion euros will really change Croatia, ensure that we have 3% investment in research and development in 2030, that we reach the standard over 75% of the EU GDP average by 2030, that Croatia is more socially inclusive, that we have as little poverty as possible, that we provide our pensioners with the best age and healthier age, that we provide our young people with the development of an economy that will be based on green, smart and digital technologies of industry 4.0, which will provide well-paid jobs and that this average salary, which is now 7200 kuna in the next few years, will be raised precisely by these funds to over EUR 1,000. I trust the secretary of state that we will have further discussions at the Croatian Parliament. It is this government that has also shown Prime Minister Plenkovic with reporting from European councils, reporting with all components of the inclusion system in Brussels as far as we are present here, how much opportunity will be given to discuss so that until the final adoption of operational programmes which.../incomprehensible/... we expect next year to have a debate on regulations and on operational programmes when the course ministry estimates that the time has matured, but when we also ensure that the input of parliamentary representatives is included. In this way, we will ensure that the European funds are watched, we will ensure that the European funds change Croatia, we will ensure that the funds are best invested for the development of the Republic of Croatia. And that is why the HDZ Club will once again support this final bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62753	Final address on behalf of the promoter, Honored Secretary of State Šime Erlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62754	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear MPs, here is a final law before us that will allow 14 billion euros in funding from the multiannual financial framework to be directed towards all parts of the Republic of Croatia, to raise standards, to realise projects. The funds are never again and I believe that we will use them wisely to enable us to raise standards, to be more competitive, to be greener but also socially inclusive and to reach those most developed EU member states in a short time. This is a law that enables the establishment of a system, strengthening capacity and reducing administrative burdens for the implementation of European funds, all of which are extremely important in the implementation of EU funds policy. I'll briefly just look back at some of the key thesis that was brought out here today. First of all, it's said not to invest enough in entrepreneurs. A very large part of the cake through the new software perspective was invested, it was put at the disposal of entrepreneurs. Now, originally only through the Operational Programme Competitiveness and Cohesion, an integrated territorial programme, so the work of cohesion policy is over 13 billion kunas. While compared to the last perspective, there were less than 10 billion kunas, which is without the resources of the National Recovery and Resistance Plan. So surely more, possibly twice as much funding will be available to entrepreneurs by the end of the perspective as they have so far. I agree that we need this money to be able to focus wisely, but for that we also have a strategy and strategy of smart specialization, industrial transition plans, and I believe that with the help of these instruments we will be able to do so. The European funds are an opportunity for Croatia as never before, and I don't think we should do any major smooth analysis to see that 16,000 projects currently implemented throughout Croatia in each of our parts of our beautiful work make a difference, change Croatia's best, there is no end, there is no municipality, there is no city, there is no county where something is not happening with the help of European funds. So I don't understand why, why the issue of their need, their regularity and their righteousness, the fairness of European funds' investment is disputed. Let's ask the mayors, the mayors, the mayors what they think about European funds are needed, let's ask the associations, let's ask those who were unemployed so they got support through employment with the help of European funds, associations of various societies, etc. So, a whole series of users who have worked hard on European projects all this time and realized their ideas precisely with the help of European funds. We would simply not do so with our own resources, budgets, funds of the Republic of Croatia's budget. As for the financial benefits of joining the EU and membership, this has been raised as issues such as a single expression of skepticism towards the EU, but there is nothing to be clear about. It's all very transparent. I told you at the beginning one piece of 50 billion kuna we are in plus versus payments of the membership fee from the European budget according to the budget of the Republic of Croatia. There are therefore Member States that are net creditors and exist, in the EU budget and there are members who are net recipients. Of course, these underdeveloped ones are the ones receiving funds. Countries such as Germany, France, Italy are the ones that give more funding to the budget and hence the development of the most underdeveloped regions in Europe, from there encouraging development that the less developed ones arrive. So Croatia has a great financial and economic benefit from EU membership. We can point out that for 1 euro or 1 kuna that we are paying in the EU budget in the next period we will have EUR 5 or 5 kuna at our disposal depending on how we want to look at it. So it's very specific, very specific data. And very briefly, because the issue of delays with operational programmes has been troubled here and compared to the previous programme perspective when these documents were prepared in 2013. In short, he's not late. The European Regulation has not been adopted, the whole legislative package related to European funds has been adopted in the 6th month and 1.7, and therefore we have not been able to do so before. Furthermore, for the time being no other Member State has submitted, no operational programme has been adopted by the European Commission so that this shows simply and the fact is that we are not late in this segment. If we look at the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, then we belong to those Member States that handed it over first and were approved to them first. As regards participatoryness and the programming process itself, which is now being implemented, which is very important for the fund policy in the next programming period, from which investment priorities from the European funds will be defined for '21-'27 will be defined. It has been problemed here that a lot of participatoryness, the involvement of various stakeholders.../incomprehensible/... has made it possible for us to include as many stakeholders as possible through working groups, regular groups that have been taking place over the last year over 800 members of different working groups at hundreds of meetings at all levels were involved in this process and were careful to include the presidents of the public, private and civil sectors through various organisations, national level representatives, local and regional level representatives in order to gain balance in this multiplicity and representation of all interests and all interest areas of our societies in defining investment priorities from European policies. So here's what I think we're doing here is doing the maximum effort that we can in the given time frames that we have. Croatia is located in a period of historical opportunity to use the funds of which absolutely everyone in the country will benefit, so I think that we must not miss this opportunity that we all need together, with the help and this law that we are making here today, which will define an institutional framework that is an important element, so and then with all these other measures that will be done in the next period that is ahead of us, and we must jointly encourage that these funds are actually used in the best possible way and that it is something that will raise us to a higher level. So much for me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62755	Thank you, Secretary of State. With this, we've exhausted the debate, I'm closing the debate, we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62757	The next item of tonight's agenda is: - Proposal for a decision on the resolution of the President of the Governing Council of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency and - Proposal for a decision appointing the President of the Governing Council of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article. 23. Law on energy regulation. The debate was conducted by the Legislative Committee. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Dear Secretary of State Ivo Milatić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62758	The Honorable Vice President of HS, the Honorable Parliamentary MPs and MPs. The energy regulation law found that HERA is governed by a five-member council, one of which is the chairman of the board of directors and one of its alternate members. The President and members of the Governing Council of HERA shall be appointed by the HS in a manner prescribed by the provision of the Article. 23rd century. 3rd century. The law. The president and members of the HERA Governing Council shall be appointed at a time of seven dogin with the possibility of another election. On the basis of Art. Paragraph 1 of the 26th century. The law of the term of office of the President and members of the Governing Council of HERA shall cease with a decision on the resolution made by the HS on the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia after the expiry of the period on which the President or member of the Governing Council has been appointed. As Mr Tomislav Jurekovic, Mr. Tomislav Jurekovic, so far the chairman of the Governing Council of Hera, was on 1 October 2021. On 30 September 2021, the Government of the Republic of Croatia set out a proposal for a decision on the resolution of the President of the Governing Council of the HERA on the day of 1 October 2021 as a result of the end of the term of office. At the same meeting of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, on the basis of the procedure carried out following a public call, the proposal for a decision on the appointment of Mr.sc. Daniel Zhamboki, president of the HERA Board of Directors. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation The law on the regulation of energy activities of the appointing process began by publication of a public invitation to propose a candidate containing the conditions for selecting the President of the Administrative Council a deadline in which the candidacy and the necessary documentation is delivered. The collection of bids for the President of the Governing Council was conducted by the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development. The invitation to tender was received by three applications which were found to be complete and that the candidates met the conditions of the public call in question. The Committee of the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development held talks with candidates on 25 August 2021 and drew up a report on the public call carried out. On the basis of the public call made, Mr.sc was proposed. Daniel Zhamboki, degree eye. and master of social sciences field of economics which education was acquired at the Faculty of Economics of the University of Zagreb. The proposed candidate in his long career has acted on a number of leading functions and has acted since 2002-2010 as chairman of the Regional Development Fund of the Republic of Croatia since 2010-2013. held the post of President of the Governing Council of HERA, and since 2016 Acting as Assistant Minister and Director of the Agency for Energy Efficiency in Construction, Projects and Programmes in the EU at the Ministry of Spatial Planning and Construction and State Property. Given the above, we propose to HS to accept the proposed candidate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62759	We have a replica, the first one is Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62760	Of course I have to ask you a obvious question when I already have a chance to talk to you here. We are all the last days, and in the future we will obviously be even more burdened by inflation which is a direct blow to our citizens' pockets, regardless of how much of the governing structure is still ignoring this fact and talking about the possible introduction of the euro, the question of whether or not we are going to achieve the conditions at all. I am interested in the fact that the biggest problem in this inflation that we expect is a dramatic growth when what has now hit entrepreneurs too much and our citizens, in which way do you think that energy prices should be regulated mainly what we are talking about the last time, and that is fuel prices, should the government, as it has done before, have an impact on excise prices soon?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62761	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62762	Thanks for asking. Clearly, the government is as aware as you say and the public that this price rise is not good or too great is actually historical growth, the government will take advantage of all its legally prescribed opportunities to make this happen, simply to stop it, in such a way as to say an uncontrollable, uncontrolled increase, so that we are considering the situation and in accordance with the Law on the market in oil and petroleum products we will eventually act so that here let us see for a while what, how and where, and you will also get information from the government when it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62763	The next replica honours MP Mirela Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62764	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, a very short and clear question. If we take into account that HERA's basic business is to monitor the respect of the principle of transparency, objectivity and impartiality in the operation of the operator of the energy market, how is it possible that we have had a man on the head of this agency for a year and 4 months who was arrested as a USKOK suspect in illegal acts that directly concern his basic activities as chairman of the board of directors of this agency? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62765	Mr. Jurekovic was elected when he was elected, so more than 7 years ago. Now, he was doing his job at the agency. For being arrested, I don't know if he was arrested, but certainly I heard that some procedure was being conducted, this clearly that procedure was not completed, it wasn't, it wasn't proven none of what was possibly being said in the media, he was doing his job there as it was supposed to be, the administrative council was working, this and clearly the time had come that his mandate had expired, he didn't answer, so believe me, he certainly wouldn't have been chosen by, by this, this ministry or proposed and, among other things, for these reasons very certain not because he was bad at his job, if simply that reason was more a problem so he didn't even report back and we have another candidate here in this assembly today.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62766	I thank the Secretary of State. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? The Economic Committee? There isn't. I am opening the debate, the first debate is on behalf of the Most Representatives' Club, the Honorable Representatives of Troscott, Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62767	Dear Vice President HS, distinguished colleagues and colleagues and respected citizens and citizens who follow us through the screen. The very person who will be elected to this post can discuss it, but I would like to point out more about the definition, and the problems that this agency should surely address and point out, show up, and I haven't seen exactly that these things happen. So, as far as inflation itself is concerned, I think that we are all now familiar with the fact that there has been an increase in prices, that these prices are rising, above all because of energy prices and what neither the governor of the central bank nor the more serious economists who are Rubin and the rest of the strong institutes and the strong universities that indicate that this inflation does not have a very trend, and at the end of the day as regards some energy strategy, there is no idea what will happen, given that there is not yet an open northern flow in northern Germany that would directly bring gas from Russia, there is no real need for the needs of Russia itself, the demand itself, and on the third side there is China which, therefore, is very high energy, therefore, and everything that is necessary for the production and for the EU. As far as inflation itself is concerned, it is clear that the EU will pay very expensively, so if we are in debt for 750 billion euros, so the price of inflation on the third hand will be 400 billion euros. And what counterpart Rasdic has well identified if we are just going to look at the nominal criterion is a big question whether we will meet the master criteria of EU accession at all. Inflation itself would also be touched by another colleague, Rasdic, who certainly enters the agency's authority is, for example, electricity. We have made it clear and we see that the same floscules related to the Lesca Hydrocentral are being given, and that the problems are not actually being solved, and that is obviously the obvious problem, but unfortunately I do not see that the government has stopped and that, in fact, with similar projects, it is actually a strategic, strategic kind of projects for both energy and water for the Republic, it is specifically about the Kosinj field. So, it is one of the most beautiful fields in the Republic of Croatia where it is actually located and where it was published in Kosinj was historically published, the first book was printed and as such Kosinj was even imagined, it was listed at the Gutenberg Museum in Meinz as the second city after, after Gutenberg's machine where it was actually printed book and as such standing in a museum in Germany. What the Government of the Republic of Croatia wants to do under a strategic project is submerged this field where in the 21st century, even though the people who showed themselves there have signed that they do not want to leave this field, so they are forced to sink, the houses will sink, the church will sink, the cemetery will sink, in order to sink the hummus field that the thread will give water to drink for reasons that the water will be cloudy, and the electricity produced from that hydrothermia will be less in contribution, somewhere less than 1% in full capacity. That I don't say what catastrophes it will bring to the whole system there that, that the lake can't be filled that it evaporates and that when a certain part of that lake and that Kosinjska field is being demonized, then the pressure will then be transferred to Gacka and what is destroyed the mountain, mountain river Good that both Lika and Lika and Gacka will be destroyed in the same way, and Gacka is the second most beautiful river declared official, the second most beautiful river in Europe. I don't see HER on that point, so I don't see, I don't see any signals, I don't see any alarms, and I think it should be because for reasons you imagine someone coming to you and moving you out of the house even though you don't want it for the reason that someone's going to sink your house and it's even put under a strategic, strategic project, and there's a much more elegant solution to get rid of it. So, there should be no immersion and, on the other hand, a different way of obtaining drinking water, and also energy on the other hand. Whoever comes to the head of that agency, I think you should talk about it if he has any conscience. If he has any conscience that we've been brought in today in the 21st century to move our people, to sink their houses, museums where we should have for a machine, churches, so some legacy that we have from history so that we can build a power plant that won't give power and create a water system that won't be drinking water for 10 years, and the question of whether it'll be possible to clean up since it's a hummus soil that when it sinks will be mud and that water won't be able to drink. Who does such strategic projects and for whom? I don't really get it. But on the other hand, nobody's talking, and HERA's not talking about it, so that's embarrassing. Here, whoever comes to that position not to talk about such things is at the very least embarrassing.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62768	Because today is the day on which it is primarily spoken and spoken justly, and it is not enough to talk about the HDZ corruption verdict, related to what counterpart Ahmetovic said earlier, I have to ask one obvious question before I move on to the work of the agency and everything it can or cannot accomplish now, given the inflation that burdens our citizens. Therefore, it is completely unclear to me, given that the law directly states that a member of the Governing Council cannot be appointed a person who is legally convicted of a criminal offence being prosecuted under official duty. You know that's Article 24, so what did you just tell us here? You said you had a council member who was a defendant, and you were okay with him being a council member all these years, and that's why you wouldn't pick her. Well, if it was okay for you to do it so far, why don't you pick her again? If you don't mind that she was that defendant, why did you let her keep doing that job? So, the only logical thing a man can conclude from this is that you don't have those criteria because if you had them at the time of such an accusation would remove a person or would now, given that it's not contrary to the law as I have read now, allow them to continue, and two times a person can be appointed as the law says to a term of seven years, to continue doing that job. And that this is extremely important to point out, it is very much related to what we have been talking about all day today and we need to keep talking, which is by corruption within the ruling structure and the current ruling on corruption to HDZ, which will make irony bigger out of the pockets of Croatian citizens because they are the ones who pay for the work of Croatian parties. So first, 14 million kunas were given to their pockets by HDZ, and now they will pay for paying HDZ's action as a party and that sentence for corruption. Congratulations to all of us. So, the second thing I want to point out, and as far as the agency's action is concerned, given that it is in its jurisdiction and the issue of excise duties to expect a much more concrete answer to the question that concerns Croatian citizens. So they didn't start yesterday, the price of fuel started to rise, and the price of all the energys that the Croatian entrepreneurs already feel is long gone. And we here expect concrete answers to questions about what the government will do, and don't forgive us, let us think a little bit more. Well, that thinking costs someone concretely. Today someone fills that fuel tank and one entrepreneur today, yesterday and tomorrow will pay rising energy prices, and soon we as Croatian citizens will too. So we can't let you think anymore, so it's known that this crisis has already begun, and it continues. And what I would very much like to mention as one important issue, which concerns inflation which is first issues, which should be given a concrete answer to what the 2019 HERE report states, which is that the margins of suppliers are most often exposed to the pressure of parallel energy policy objectives as regards promotion of renewable sources, energy efficiency obligations, etc. that is, green policies. Europe has developed a very ambitious green plan. However, because of economic policies in this crisis and because of inflation that no longer threatens us but has become our reality, the question is whether this plan is more effective at all, in which way this agency will treat it in view of the pressures of inflation and whether it should then be adapted or changed, and whether we will take a proactive role there at all, or if we will just wait for something to happen somewhere away from Zagreb in Brussels, and it is very much our reality.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62769	Next is the debate on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club, the respected representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62770	Dear Vice-President Sanader, I am talking about the resolution and appointment of the President of the Management Board of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency. Dear Secretary of State a few days ago, you were recently here, so I warned you the same thing about one, one situation that is related to this agenda point, which is wind parks and wind power plants. I warned you that under current law it is possible to set huge aggregates of 100, 150 meters from home only 500 meters from home I hope that you have discussed it with colleagues in the ministry and that you are preparing some changes to the laws that will make it impossible because it is a threat to the quality of life. And here I am, in particular, encouraged by the situation in the Municipality of UNESCO in Sibenik, where it is planned to create this one mega, mega-foetal, which will significantly reduce the quality of life of Croatian citizens. Another thing that colleagues have already mentioned here, and I also have to mention, the fuel is currently 12 kuna, 12 kuna is very likely to go up next week, I don't know if you in the ministry are aware of how much a hit on the standard of Croatian citizens is doing because I don't see a single measure that the current government, your ministry has taken on this issue, and this is directly concerning HERA. So I call you from this place, I insist I speak so quietly, calmly, but you should actually yell here because it's such a blow to the citizens' standard that it's outrageous. And what I also spoke from this place several times about the famous excise duties, so Croats and Croats are paying the biggest excise duties of one of the largest excise duties in Europe, it is currently 6.5 kuna going to the state budget as far as VAT is concerned, it is a terrible blow to the pockets of Croatian citizens. Ask them what about these prices and the government's position, the attitude of your ministry is thought by car drivers, what the cab drivers think, what a regular man who uses a car, who heats on gas. So this is a key point and I urge you to immediately put your focus in the focus of your action in any way to reduce energy prices, and the Croatian Government has instruments. I know it's hard to give up excise duty, but it's got instruments for at least two, three kunas to cut the fuel price. But what I see as some kind of futur II, here we all read about the situation on the world market, and it's very likely that prices will go up, not nearly 8, 12 kuna or 11,70, 60 as much as the price of fuel is now, it's going to go up to 2 euros probably in the next period, and we're waiting. So it is high time for the government to protect Croatian citizens, give up part of the income, the state is currently rich, rich at the expense of taxi drivers, at the expense of the car driver, at the expense of the ordinary Croatian man. So a lot of that wealth has to be interrupted, find a modus, find a way, cut the excise duties, cut the VAT, so I'm sure the opposition will also support such a decision or such a bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62771	The next debate is on behalf of the Social Democrats' Club of Representatives, a respected representative named Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62772	... I'm going to rely a little on my colleague Zekanovic with one sentence that I heard the other day, Croatian ministers have no problem with rising fuel prices having official cars. But now let's go back to what's really about this. First, we are here for the second time repeating the same mistake in the appointment and that today the ministry gentleman was warned and they are fully aware of it both in the government and in the ministry. The government talks all the time, so that's how it's been done over the past few years, so let's keep doing it that way. By law, the government is not authorized to propose to the Member State. The 24th century. The Law on Energy Activity Regulation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is required to present a reasoned list of candidates after which the Board, whether the Assembly chooses who will be the director of the Agency. What's important at this point is to say that an independent regulator like HERA should be banned by consensus. Now why the consensus? Because the impact of energy on today’s society is immeasurable, or root of everything that is happening in society and in the economy. This actually shows something that I've talked about several times, which is actually the ability or inability of this government to manage, or the ability to manage someone's management, you can see in times of crisis. Someone mentioned at one point the governor of the National Bank, the governor of the National Bank, was here a few days ago, and he made it very clear from this pay phone that he and his report also wrote that most of the world's economies were fully aware of what would happen by coming out of the crisis or with the price of commodities on the world market. So the government of the Republic of Croatia was warned, she knew there would be an increase in prices, my simple question of how she reacted? Not at all. When you look at what it says in the HERA programme that we adopted here, the HERA mission is an effective functioning of the internal electricity and gas market within the EU. I'm asking you, and I see all the HDZ's somehow pulled into the back lines, is that maybe because of the verdict or something else? ... And that's the theme and that's the theme. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We shouldn't throw it out of the bench.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62773	Please throw it away, don't communicate with the MPs, and don't throw it out of the bench.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62774	And then under a vision also adopted in this HS, HERA writes, protecting consumers from the risks of significant increases in electricity supply and preventing monopoly. I'm asking you what the HERA to which the truth was recently presided by a man who has a criminal record did or what the government did to prevent what was written in HERA's vision from doing, did it affect the price of electricity for the economy? And we are aware of the fact that prices of electricity, gas and oil every time they increase for the economy, let us not forget that in Croatia the higher price of electricity and gas is paid to the owners than the citizens, does someone really think that the fact that you have charged them more ultimately is found in the price of products delivered to Croatian citizens, of course not. This means that what it has shown, I say the inability to manage is knowing that there is a crisis, knowing what is happening on the world market, not the government, not the HERA that writes it in the basic mission and the vision of what it should be doing, in no way has she reacted. We are here in a land that has several kunas more expensive fuel than in countries around us. I must admit it is not clear to me, how is it that in Croatia which is the poorest price of fuel the highest, is it because the government makes the most money or is the simplest way to marry Croatian citizens? That's the key question. And the key question is when you name the man who, when you look at his CV, is actually the HDZ code for executive functions when HDZ comes to power. Will he implement what is written in the mission and vision of HERA, will he do what should be done, which is to protect Croatian citizens or will he work to ensure a peaceful flow of funds to the Croatian government against Croatian citizens?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62775	The next debate is on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, MP Mirela Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62776	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the independence of institutions is one of the preconditions of functional democracy. This rests every system based on justice, equality and pluralism. It is precisely independent institutions in one country that can be corrective when authorities stray or promote an inequality that has implications for the rights of citizens. In Croatia, the independence of individual institutions is often questioned by the action of a political elite or a government that seeks to reduce their independence and make them an extended hand of its action, which is not in the best interests of the state and its citizens. A system where it is not possible to monitor independently the work of state bodies in autocracy and then to corruption that becomes the strongest means of preserving existing positions of ruling structures and contributing to the poverty of citizens. Today we are discussing and deciding on the new president of the HERA Board of Directors and before I refer to the candidate proposed by the applicant, in this case by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I would just like to point out that on the pages and the same HERA, among other things, it says that this regulatory agency is engaged in the activities, quote, ensuring objectivity, transparency and impartiality in the pursuit of energy activity. The core job of HERA is to monitor, among other things, respect for the principle of transparency, objectivity and impartiality in the work of energy market operators. The current chairman of the Governing Council of HERA, Tomislav Jurekovic, has expired on 1 October of this year and the government has sent us here a proposal for his resolution. Why do I mention Tomislav Jurekovic? Because he was detained as a USKOK suspect on suspicion that Josephi Rimac, the former secretary of state in the Krsh-Paden affair, was shot. I remind you, the Krš-Paden affair is the largest energy affair in the Republic of Croatia in which a private investor has been favored from all levels. Mr Tomislav Jurekovic, according to USKOK, has just allowed the CEMP to power instead of 43 euros per megawatt hour, as the case was by then invoiced at 94 euros per megawatt hour. The arrests in the Krš-Paden case where Tomislav Jurekovic was arrested also took place in June 2020, and today on 13 October 2021, 13 days after the end of the term of office we are discussing his resolution. If we take into account that HERA's basic business is monitoring the principle of transparency, objectivity and impartiality in the work of an operator of the energy market, how is it possible that we've had a man arrested as a USKOK suspect for illegal acts directly affecting his basic activities as chairman of the board of directors for a year and 4 months? And that was my question to the Secretary of State, Mr. Milatić, who says even if he had reported to the new tender now, the government would not accept it or would not have recommended it, would not have been the government's proposal, but the same government had accepted it for a year and 4 months as the arrested suspect at the head of the agency. If I didn't hear it right, I wouldn't believe it if someone told me that Mr. Milatic said it. In what part of this we can call for respect for the principle of transparency, objectivity and impartiality if that man was non-transparent, unobstructed and biased in doing his basic work, and how can a man who is a suspect be independent in carrying out a job in an independent institution that should regulate the energy sector? Instead of being immediately replaced by Mr. Jurekovic, he continued to do the job as if nothing had happened. So much for transparency and independence. Not to say that the government did not even arrive in time to propose a meeting of the resolution of Jurekovic but was 13 days late, and HERA has not been president of the governing council for 13 days, or in the back of the assembly, its mandate has expired. But it's not the only furry composition that exists in HER. At the end of last year, an evaluation was carried out for a vacant seat in the HERE Governing Council. Of all the candidates who applied for the person who ended up in the first place did not pass the security assessment. Another candidate with the highest score, longtime HERE employee, however, did not become a member of the board of directors, but was suddenly skipped by third candidate Alenka Kinderman Lončarević. In addition to the fact that there were no clear criteria such as the third candidate suddenly skipped the second one, it became interesting that the person concerned was actually the wife of a close co-worker of HEP management president Frane Barbaric. To clarify HERA is an independent agency that needs to be monitored by the energy market, and thus the HEP. As a member of the Governing Council, the government proposes a person who is in a marriage union with a person who works in HEP. For the matter to be even worse, the lady concerned is in a direct conflict of interest because her husband sits in as many as 3 supervisory boards of HEP's daughters' companies, and the Energy Regulation Act strictly prohibits a member of the board and members of his family from being in the board, the supervisory board or any other body in energy companies at the same time. If we add this to the information that the president of HEP administration, vice-president of the Zagreb HDZ, who is running for that post again, then we do not have too much room to conclude that HERA is not in any way an independent institution deprived of political influence and staffing by a company that should be directly monitored. The proposal by the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the new president of the HERE Governing Council is Daniel Zhamboki. His résumé shows that HERE was already president from 2010 to 2013. What's interesting is that Mr. Zhamboki, by leaving HERE, used the legal right to 12 months' wages since, according to the law, the members of the HERE Management Council are not allowed to work in energy companies. Yes, it's all by law but back to the same place of work that someone has achieved legal benefits according to European practice is not possible, as opposed to all ethical standards. At a time when Mr. Zhamboki was chairman of the Governing Council of Hera, he was also a member of the Supervisory Board of the Karlova Banka. You all remember the affair that rocked the carlovacka bank, and at that time loans were granted to the spouses of the then leading HDZ people. And that's very interesting. What is still evident in Mr Žamboki's résumé is that since 2016 he has been an assistant minister at the Ministry of Space, Planning, Construction and State Property in charge of energy efficiency in construction, projects and EU programmes. By removing the post of assistant minister, he became director of the administration in charge of the same jobs. To remind HERA is an independent body that regulates the energy market. How the HERA will remain an independent body if a man has come to the head of its governing council, to whom so far the head was one of the members of the government, and Mr. Zhamboki is coming to HERU on a proposal from the Government and Minister of Resort, Coric, while his former boss is sitting right in that government. And how he will control the work of HEP when he sits on the board of directors of HEP's legal services. I was talking at the beginning about the independence of institutions. In order for an institution to be independent, it must be unburdened by the influence of politics, political staffing and clienteleism otherwise, such an institution loses its meaning. With this appointment, and in fact by political staffing HERA continues to be an addictive institution, dependent on the political pressure of rulings who, through this kind of humanely weakened institutions, can do as they please. If power through independent institutions can do as it pleases, it is an alarm that must be set in motion throughout the democratic public. A dependent regulator that regulates subsidiaries is nothing more than the start of corrupt government actions. We from the SDP will follow the work of HERE and in the public in due time present facts and potential corrupt actions already in the past and precisely within the framework of HERE, and with this appointment I am not sure that they will not be in the future. Because of all the above, the SDP club strongly opposes the appointment of Mr Zhamboki and, of course, we will not support him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62777	Next is a debate on behalf of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives, Honored representative Urša Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62778	... Mr Milatić, good evening, Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of the President of the Governing Council of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency and Proposal for a Decision appointing the President of the Governing Council of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency have come to order for the debate in the assembly as we have heard only a day after reaching the previously unmarked price of fuel for motor vehicles and other engines, which could result in an enormous wave of collection of all products and services so far and electricity and heat energy. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] It is therefore important for the general public to point out that the Law on the Regulatory of Energy Activities provides for HEROM to manage the administrative council of the Agency which has 5 members, one of which is the President of the Governing Council and one of its alternate and that one of the 37 basic tasks of the Agency is the adoption or approval of prices in the energy sector as a rule of electricity. It is clear that deregulated energy and energy markets provide limited opportunities for intervention in favour of customers and that a solution should be sought in energy policies that will ensure better use of available resources and that we need from the candidate for President of the Governing Council of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency to hear whether there is any new innovative function of HERA to be advocated. The long-term focus should be on costing electricity production, speeding up the transition to renewable energy sources to reduce our dependence on increasingly unstable fossil fuel prices. Unfortunately, in the last 30 years, it has barely been invested in renewable energy sources, which is actually amazing since Croatia has all the natural conditions to be one of the most significant European solar energy producers. The opportunity so far has been missed partly due to an unfavourable legal framework, and in part because of the lack of political will to approach this issue more proactively. For example, this means that consumers need to be facilitated by the production of their own electricity, for example. By way of roof solar panels, allowing them to be saved and more stable and less sensitive to market trends. Policymakers should support consumers in this and remove existing obstacles to their installation or participation in energy communities, and HERA should take a proactive role in encouraging this type of investment. Finally, the cheapest energy is the energy we do not use, which is why consumers should be supported in improving the energy efficiency of their homes, and this is what the European Consumer Community points out. Furthermore, I would also like to call on their view that, as a result of a significant increase in energy prices, there is increased flexibility in the settlement of accounts and debt for energy and exclusion bans due to non-payment of energy bills. This would bring immediate relief to consumers because this price energy impact came after a financial difficult time during the covida-19 pandemic, except as it advocates the European Consumer Community, regulators should closely monitor the market and prevent and sanction any non-competitive practice that could lead to an artificial price increase. Some European governments are already considering reducing electricity tax as a way to immediately reduce the burdens borne by European households with the strengthening of social tariffs for low-income households in order to protect against energy poverty. Ireland, for example, will reduce taxes for high-cost citizens and increase pensions from the beginning of 2022 will also increase child benefits and provide vouchers for payment of electricity and gas bills. In addition, with the light of recent tweets by the competent minister, Mr. Coric, who announce that the minister is prone to energy independence instead of investing in renewable energy sources, seek through the construction of nuclear power plants. We have to ask ourselves what kind of strategic document Minister Coric is calling for and what plan of his ministry mentions investing in nuclear energy, and is he aware that this type of investment, with a number of minuses he will not now talk about, is it necessary to start a period of 10 to 15 years, or does recent statements actually suggest that despite the fact that investment in renewable energy sources is the most efficient, fastest, cheapest and most acceptable way to achieve energy independence, will Croatia really not go in this direction? Since we do not miss the affair and the affairs in which it was involved, Minister Coric himself in the field of energy of these affairs, unfortunately we are not missing, the question that actually motivates is behind the latest statements of the minister in question? The second complaint on this agenda is procedural, so it has already happened on several occasions, for example. in the election of the Advocate General to replace the heads of the bodies appointed by HS before we discussed last year's report on the work of those bodies. We therefore think that it would be better to have a report that is responsible for explaining and defending the person whose mandate the report refers to, and not to the new chairman of the Hera Board of Directors, who does not even come from the agency itself, but from the Ministry of Spatial Planning, Construction and State Property. The acute issue of the explosion of energy costs, however, we would say, requires a better insight into the continuity of HERA's work and faster action, and we will only see how much the new director will succeed and manage after stalking his new job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62779	Next is a debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, respected representative Miro Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62780	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear Secretary of State with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. So here's the first thing I'm going to talk about is the Energy Regulation Act, so right now we have a current law that was passed in 2012. and that we have changed in certain articles in 2018. When we talk about selecting the president and member of the Governing Council of HERA, these procedures are defined as an article. 23, Art. 24, Art. 26th existing Energy Regulatory Act. Therefore, these articles have not been amended in 2018, they are the same all the time and these articles are prescribed that the president and members of the board of directors appoint HS, that the appointment procedure begins with the publication of a public invitation to propose candidates containing the conditions for the selection of presidents and members of the board of directors, the deadline within which applications and the necessary documentation are submitted and that the collection of these candidates for the president and members of the board of directors shall be carried out by the Ministry. It is also said that the government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to submit a reasoned list of candidates previously submitted by the ministry to members of the Governing Council. And in art. 26. It is also said in the resolution that it is the government that is actually proposing a resolution of members of the HS Steering Council. 2017 We had a letter from the European Commission which was an official notice of injury, so that the 2012 law did not transpose all the provisions of the directive, and it was in 2018 that some of these articles were being amended in connection with this letter and the notice of injury, and above all it was related to Article. In 36th, which spoke of the Agency's supervision of the work being carried out by the Ministry, The 7th century of the 5th, where he spoke of consent to the statutes of the agency being given by the government. In 2018, we changed this and now by law the only person who can oversee the work of the agency is HS and the agency only submits a report on its work and consent to the statute gives HS. So much for the legal solution that we brought here ourselves, the 2012 majority headed by the SDP, and that in 2018, the majority today changed a little bit, but above all HDZ's majority. Therefore, articles that have not changed at all since 2012 to this day have been implemented and this appointment is now on the agenda, so in the 7th month, the ministry issued a public invitation for the president of the Governing Council of HERA, gathering candidates within the deadline prescribed, making a list of candidates, and according to the list of candidates, Daniel Žamboki received 43 points, Lahorko Wagmann 40 and Dalibor Mikulić 32. At its session, the government set out a proposal for the resolution of Tomislav Jurekovic, which, since it comes out on October 1st 2021, means before 7th. which the SDP government has appointed as President of the Governing Council has also established that candidate list and has provided us with a list of candidates according to which Daniel Žamboki received the highest number of points, and has also been proposed as chairman of the HERA Board of Directors. On the board today, we discussed the materials that we received and most of the votes identified the opinion sent by HS, which is that Daniel Žamboki is proposed as chairman of the HERA Board of Directors. On that committee, if there were any other majority, another proposal would have been confirmed, so I don't see that the procedure was hurt anywhere or that anything was done against the law that was in force. After all, this is the same way that the law does. And now a little bit about the candidate himself, because more or less in the debates, it wasn't about the candidates themselves at all, but more about the law and the procedure that we ourselves brought and established. The CV of the proposed candidate shows that in his long career he has acted on a number of demanding management positions, it is evident that the proposed candidate is a member of a series of programmes, seminars, professional training, training programmes related to the regulation of energy activities, energy efficiency, renewable energy sources and other in the country and abroad. What we think is important for this function, which is the president of the HERA Board of Directors to propose a candidate with expertise, education, and he is the Master of Economic Sciences and Master of Business Management, a longtime expert in energy and energy efficiency, has also had management experience from the private and public sector and has already had the opportunity to exercise this demanding duty 10 years ago. So Daniel Zhamboki is not coming into an unknown environment but is well aware of the situation in the energy sector and HERA. It's also been over the last 5.5 years. work at the Ministry of Spatial Planning, Construction and State Property has acted towards improving the energy efficiency of the building's fund in the Republic of Croatia through the use of eu funds where it has achieved enviable results. For these very reasons, we believe that the proposed candidate is worthy to become president of the HERA Board of Directors again. You'd look back a little more on what we often hear from this pay phone that you should be doing HERA. Therefore, first of all, HERA is not an agency that needs to regulate the market and is to be mixed up in market relations, it should create conditions that the market can function independently, so it should actually act on those energy entities that are regulated so that they do not violate market conditions on the market because they have different incomes and then, if they go into market relations, they are in fact distorting these market relations and cannot be put into place in the right way. I can see through the debate that it interferes and that it's trying to say that it's actually HERA that should regulate all the prices that exist with energy. HERA should regulate and regulate only nets, and that's only one segment and part of what's said here most of it is actually the electricity that HERA deals with, so that's just one part of the price, that other part of the price is actually production. We've heard that HERA should react if someone wants to build production facilities somewhere, my position and my opinion is also from what's being read from the law and what it says that HERA should do that HERA shouldn't get involved at all, but we often hear different comments from this speaker about how for daily political needs when it comes to whom, and then every point of discussion is used, and if we have something that's related to the energy sector, it doesn't matter whether it's HERA or something else, then we're going to say all that's exactly what they're responsible for all the problems we have. I think through these, HERA was first practically established through the Energy Regulation Act back in 2001, and I think we've made steps to regulate what HERA should do. One of the fact that members and presidents of the Governing Council are elected to the 7th year. says that the majority in the assembly selects a member of HERA, and eventually the other majority solves it because he was elected to the 7th year, and yet the parliamentary mandates last 4th year, so that the independence of HERA is guaranteed in that part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62781	Followed by an individual debate, the first respected Nikola Grmoy, is gone, losing his right. Next is the debate by Mirela Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62782	Respected colleagues and colleagues, independent institutions should be in the first row of the company's corrections when politics strays or fails to play that role that would guarantee the equality of citizens. An independent institution is independent when there are employees or administrations who will uncompromisingly defend their independence and at no cost of pressure will fail their social role. The independent institution and its leader is the one who is independent of his secular or political thinking willing to objectively warn and seek a correction of the deviations in the work of the entities that oversees without the intention of saving someone because of his political or social level of power. This is what Croatia currently does not have, that is what Croatia is chronically suffering from. When you look at all institutions or almost everything, and even those that are not part of the state apparatus, for example. sports, Czech, and even cultural, everything is in some way politically dependent, depending on the ruling, depending on HDZ. Today we are discussing the new president of the HERA Board of Directors. Unfortunately, HERA is not an independent institution because the head of the administration had a suspect involved in the corrupt activities of the very sector to be monitored. Now, at the head of the administration, a person who is closely dependent on who is proposing it is is proposed. I really don't understand how you can fool us so clearly a man who won't be independent, so what do you always think of us as people without any intelligence? We as an opposition may have lost the election, so the citizens have decided and we accept it, but don't think of us as fools and think we don't see it. We can certainly see and be sure that we from the SDP will always react when we see such deviations and when we are able to vote on ethically spectral proposals. Jurekovic or Zhamboki, it doesn't matter. Neither of them are independent, nor is it in the government's interest to be independent. It is precisely in the interest of the government and the resolute ministers that persons at the heads of all regulatory institutions are deeply dependent institutions, those they will have to do on their orders. We've had a situation with the wind power plant affair. What happened? The president of the board of directors was still in office for a year and 4 months. Is it transparent, is it objective and independent how HERA beats herself? Could this man have been arrested and disgraced be independent in front of the ministers for whom he was in charge? This is just a rhetorical question. If HERA and HERA leaders had the freedom to act independently, they would have controlled HEP, not on paper and not with a fig in their pocket, just like other so-called. independent institutions. In that case, HEP would not spend hundreds of thousands of kuna on donations, or buy media space with the funds of Croatian citizens, then HEP would not be the platinum sponsor of the award to the tourism and sports ministry and the minister as a member of the government that today proposes the head of the institution that the same HEP should oversee. Is that independence? Unfortunately, this is a thick political dependence on people who are the leaders of HEP, while at the same time senior HDZ officials and a dependence on the political structure in the ruling position. It's a perfect and bewitched circle, but hope dies last, and today's ruling by the Supreme Court is a pinnacle of hope that institutions can be independent. So can HERA one day, but with Zhamboki on his forehead, I'm sure he can't. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62783	Replica's esteemed representative, Stipa Sashlin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62784	Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, I have listened very carefully to all the debates of the opposition clubs about an hour more and I have tried very hard, however I have not heard a single constructive proposal just unfounded often critics. Not a single concrete and constructive proposal. You don't want hydropower plants, you don't want wind power plants, you don't want nukes, and at the same time you want an increase in electricity production and a reduction in its prices. Give me a minute please let's wake up, let's be as much as we can at least try to be a little real. Someone said from you here, Mr. Brumney, I think governments are recognized, the ability of the government right in times of crisis. That's the only truth you've told, and that's exactly what this government has proved to be in the most difficult times of crisis Covid's crisis has managed to preserve the economy, not only has it preserved the number of employees. but increased the number of employees, increased the average [[Intruder: Time.]] and created conditions for realisation [[Intruder: Time.]] other all strategic goals of the Republic of Croatia. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62785	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62786	Thank you very much for asking. You and the citizens will be judged. It would be acceptable for me even to act out, to act indifferent to everything I've just said, but you're not acting at all. You are indifferent, you are capable after all I've said is that we're just criticizing and we don't want wind power plants. Wind power plants which are a platform for corrupt affairs of HDZ members and those which the HDZ puts at the head of regulatory agencies are not desirable to any normal citizen of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62787	The next replica, the esteemed representative, Miro Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62788	From your discussion of a colleague to conclude that you actually believe that HERA is not independent, that HERA does not work all the time as an independent body, that throughout this entire time whatever has been done in the last 20 years has not gone in the direction of forming HERU as an independent body that will then regulate those activities for which it is in charge, which are primarily regulated activities. What really interests me most in this whole story now is that you have in some way attacked the Secretary of State until, when, why someone has been fired or why it stops or when Mr Tomislav Jurekovic's resolutions go away, the gentleman was held president of the board of directors by the SDP's former government in 2014. Now you're going at it hard and you're accusing us of it. And do you think institutions can be independent if you don't respect the mandate of someone you've chosen but get it without [[Intruder: Time.]] He's making the switch. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62789	The answer... Do you want 15? [[Intruder: You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62790	Thank you very much. I'm glad you agree with my conclusion, or you're saying it's to be concluded from my debate that HERA is not an independent institution. Well, I'm glad you agreed to that. Yes, at the time of the government of Zoran Milanovic Mr. Jurekovic was appointed, you may be right, but during the HDZ government and with the help of the HDZ featherers Josipa Rimac, Jurekovic contributed to the corrupting affair of the wind power plant. In addition, I did not attack Mr. Milatić for anything but ask him how it was possible that the gentleman who was proposed for the new president of the Governing Council of HER would not be the government's choice precisely because of all these things, that is to say, excuse this past, precisely because of all these things being put on him. But it's okay to spend a year and four months just as an arrester disgraced USKOK's defendant. That's cute.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62791	Next is Domagoj Hajdukovic's individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62792	Thank you very much. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, we have heard some debates about whether the person we resolve or appoint is worthy of these functions and whether his references actually give or inspires the confidence that his work will work well. I can agree with the suspicions of colleagues and colleagues from the opposition, but I'm interested in one other thing. Did HERA do her homework? And what task is that? Says a HDZ colleague did not regulate the market, not interfere with market relations. But I'm asking you colleagues and colleagues, and then what's HERA getting mixed up in? I'll tell you in nothing and I'll give you a plastic example. Fuel prices on the global market are rising and falling, prices of barrels of oil. When prices don't fall or fall immediately or fall, then rise or stagnate again, but when prices rise, they immediately rise. And now explain to me the transparency of forming that price, should I be doing HER? Who's supposed to work, the government of the Republic of Croatia? And well then, the government doesn't do its job. But I'm asking you, what's Hera getting mixed up in? When we talk about energy, we have an ecluent example of how we completely missed the goal, which is the reconstruction of Zagreb. I mean, well, the renovation's still gone, maybe it's gonna be, I don't know, maybe it's not, how we started in about a dozen years, but we didn't even think about energy. It was a unique opportunity to include energy efficiency and renewable energy sources in the reconstruction, how many surfaces on which photosensitivity cells can be placed, etc., etc. That's what a lot of cities do, old man, new as you like. Go get Europe, you don't have to go far to see good examples. We don't even think about it at all, it's not our category at all, but well that doesn't surprise me, we don't even think about rebuilding in general because it's not there. We are talking about energy availability, are we talking about whether our citizens have the right not only to have access to energy but also energy at a fair price, so I will draw your attention or bring your attention to the fact that in many parts of Croatia, unfortunately, there is still no electricity in many parts of Croatia. That's what your colleagues and colleagues from the ruling ones tell you, and quite often, if you are in this assembly, then you can testify to that, so the availability of energy here has fallen. Energy prices, and here we are, diesel prices, gasoline are wilder, and we know that when those prices go up, they move and appreciate everything else, so that's one domino effect, and the government says it's watching the situation. Great. So we have an observer situation, not someone who's actively working to protect his citizens. Then we have a HERA that pretends to be doing something. But no matter who we name, and we're going to name how most people decide whose references I have sincere doubts, I'm afraid our citizens won't get any better at the end of the day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62793	Replica, a respected representative of Marina Opačak Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62794	Representative Hajdukovic, you asked in your debate on the task of HERA, and according to Croatian and European legislation, the role of HERA is among other things the protection of consumers. I would therefore like to mention that all companies engaged in the supply of electricity as a public service have in their general rules regulated cases where they can exclude or suspend the supply of electricity. Although the Constitutional Court is still in 2007 In its judgment, it has determined that such general rules do not comply with the laws or the Constitution and that they cannot be applied or that consumers must not be excluded from supply, but unpaid accounts must be resolved and charged by court means. However, this decision of the Constitutional Court does not apply in practice but continues to exclude consumers from supply until the settlement of accounts and then re-pay the connection. Do you think that the agency has a legitimate response to consumer protection on this issue? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62795	The agency's doing great, the agency's doing nothing. So, when we talk about consumer protection, when we talk about electricity availability, when we talk about what you're talking about, which is the exclusion of electricity, we have an eclectic example of what is not right in the Croatian judiciary, this has been discussed for a very long time here. We are unable to implement the decisions of our own court in this constitutional case, that's one thing for you. Another thing is, is energy, or is energy available, human rights? This is a question that is increasingly being raised in world circles because we have become so dependent on electricity, so everything that is related to it, all home aids, appliances, phones, communication absolutely everything that energy or many people mention to you with drinking water and clean environments as human rights, and we don't talk about it here. We're talking fairy tales that some suspicious qualifications will change the world, so they won't. Here's the work that's been done to tell you about how much HERA has shown here.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62796	Next is the individual debate of the respected Erik Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62797	Dear colleagues and colleagues, dear Vice President. And I wasn't going to answer for the debate either, but here's a fact that's about what's part of the regulatory agency. The procedure of the law whoever wrote it would be the same, which is the question of the appointment of the chairman of the board of directors of the agency itself as well as the possible and consequent choice of director of the agency. There is no difference, there is no need to read the National Journal, no articles, no parameters, it is more or less clear and of course the parliamentary majority decides. So of the parliamentary majority then comes the political responsibility of that moment and that's good because the parliamentary majority has a responsibility to implement a certain policy and then proposes the chairman of the HERA Management Council, okay, okay. But I am interested in what is the policy that this board president will implement in the Republic of Croatia, and I am a little surprised, and I am deeply concerned about certain experiences. I'm looking at the price of Eurosuper 100, all the producers of $11.99, if we're talking about what's the basic role of HERA, to excuse me for this death on the cartel, not the conditions of competition. Another thing, if we're just talking about competence and meeting the conditions for competition then we have to worry about other things, we have to worry about the prices of gasoline that we have in the environment. So unfortunately I think that.../incomprehensible/... will have a director only I do not know which policy he will implement, or not the Director, but the President of the Board of Directors, because he will manage it. So one control function, one is an executive function. We have an agency that has certain powers to do something. But it can also do nothing, and then we have today these daily political results that we unfortunately have. A series of factors that can affect the price of energy products. About gas and how the price of gas is regulated by certain societies, the utility companies that are in charge of electricity, I won't, but I know what damage I can do. Also, when we talk about the price of individual fuel while we're already on fuel, we all know that diesel pollutes more than and that's why the price of diesel went a little worse than some previous periods, more than, rather than gasoline just to detimise diesel consumption in the Republic of Croatia. And that we have to go to alternative energy sources no one has against wind power plants when built in an honest, fair way. And about the obstructions that exist in the exploitation of solar energy I thought, I was talking about in some previous discussions where HEP literally rackets on where he is an investor and where he should pay for the accession study, networking. I don't know if HERA has to do it, but I think HERA should keep an eye on it. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62798	We have a replica of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62799	My colleague Fabianic also in the energy sector, but I am afraid in all other Croatia there is no strategy at all on anything. We don't know where we are, we don't know where we're going and we don't know what we want. And then all of your policies, you were right to ask yourself what policies we're doing at all, but all policies are ad hoc, so all policies are how the wind is today, and you know that energy policy is becoming and a very important global political issue. So that's already a strategic question, that's also a question where great powers measure their strengths, etc., etc. And one small Croatia, in global proportions, small doesn't know where it's going, doesn't know what it wants and doesn't know what its goal is. So, even in this policy but in every other we want from agriculture, education, economy, it's a disastrous defeat, we lost the game, and the judge didn't even play the beginning.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62800	Well, I can, I can only agree with this comment because I said that a long time ago I wasn't even in the assembly when I said we had two Croatians. We have two Croatians, one is real Croatia when our citizen gets a bill for electricity, gas or some other energy and even when it goes fuelling and we have a virtual Croatia. Virtual Croatia we get nicely packed and served the moment Croatia describes the parliamentary majority.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62801	There's a final debate coming up. On behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, Mirela Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62802	Dear colleagues and colleagues, former president of HERE Tomislav Jurekovic as USKOK's suspect and arrester in the Krs Fallen affair for a year and 4 months at the head of HERE. If he had reported this time, the government would not have suggested it, but there it helped him with the year and 4 months in the top place of HER, although USKOK accused him, arrested him, suspected him in the Krš Padjene affair. A member of HERE's board proposed by the Government, a husband of a man who works in HEP and who sits in as many as 3 supervisory boards of HEP's daughters, although such a thing defends the Energy Regulatory Act. HEP Vice-President of the Zagreb HDZ. The new proposal by the Government of the Republic of Croatia for President of the Governing Council, HERE Daniel Žamboki, has already taken 12 months' wages from HERE. He was also a member of the Supervisory Board of the Karlovakska Banka at the time of the big affair of the same bank. This Decision shall Zhamboki is the assistant minister of spatial planning, construction and state property, and later director of the competent administration. The government in which Zamboki's chief minister is based suggests Zamboki as Head of the HERE, which needs to monitor the work of HEP while HERE's Board of Directors sits with the husband of the legal department in HEP. Okay, how are you not embarrassed?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62803	The next final debate is on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club, the respected representative Marijana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62804	I thank the chairman. Here, I didn't mean to answer on this subject at all, but I was offered by a colleague from HDZ. So, I'm going to start by removing the point of the proposal against corruption strategy from the agenda this week. However, here remain points that are an opportunity to talk about corruption. This item shall be a discharge from the duties of the President of the Management Board of the Energy Regulatory Agency. So, the man who was a suspect in the biggest energy affair in Croatia so far. The second point is coming to us tomorrow, and instead of this withdrawn strategy, we have the appointment of the director of HRT another institution whose senior director went to another corruption affair, allegedly carrying some money to the former mayor of Zagreb. So, a colleague from HDZ says that he has not heard a single constructive proposal here for a pay phone, whether we are just criticising any constructive proposal and interpreting that when we criticise the criticisms that are directed at the head of the agency for more than a year who has been suspected in the biggest energy affair, you are interpreting that we do not want wind power plants. So the interesting course of thought, here's how you connected it, I don't know what logic, which logically, as this sequence is called, you can interpret it to me on this very day that the Supreme Court has confirmed the verdict by which an entire political organization to which you belong is found guilty of corrupt acts and a fine of 18.1 million kuna has been determined. The case is unique in the world, though, as long as here citizens don't think that 18.1 million kuna will do you any harm, so annual HDZ income 2019. It was 46.7 million kuna, so this 18 million kuna is a pin. You've already paid and paid and paid. So here's a constructive proposal that I hope you'll accept and stop all the arguments of the opposition, and also of the citizens, stop dealing with corruption and clientism. A very constructive proposal and I hope when you apply it then here we have no reason to talk about it here at the pay phone. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62805	Stipan Shashin, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62806	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues. He's been injured. In 238, insulting or distorting testimony, killing practically a colleague himself, this one I listened very carefully to what they said. They said they didn't want a hydro power plant because of that field over there, you said wind power plants too, you mentioned that we don't have anywhere in any document where we're going and how we're going to plan to build these nuclear power plants, practically against everything, literally against everything. It's pure populism and I just can't do it... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62807	Time. This was your replica. You're getting a warning. Next violation of the Rules of Procedure respected Marijana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62808	Here's the injured Rules of Procedure again, Art. In 238, so there was no populism, you couldn't from all of this you couldn't possibly conclude that the opposition didn't want wind power plants, but it didn't want wind power plants related to corruption and clientelism, so here's what you could have concluded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62809	Okay. A reminder to you, too. Followed by the Social Democrats' Club of Representatives, the esteemed Named Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62810	After this debate on behalf of the Social Democrats Club, I can only say that it is impossible to support this man for the director of the agency and for the debates that came up with what to say? A HDZ man reads what's in the law, the same thing I said, the only thing he finds out differently. He says what we said on the board today, it was wrong in the previous period, so you keep doing it wrong. In one e-mail that has been sent to all of us, it has been clearly stated to you, among other things, what we talked about the last time, a comparison of the two laws where it is precisely and clearly seen why this law would require a appointment in a different way than that other law where the appointment goes directly from the government. But let me get back to the subject a little bit. According to the HERA vision, consumer protection against the risks of significant disturbances in the supply of electricity or energy supply. This is about gas, it's about oil or gasoline and electricity. I'm really asking you a question on the right which you are the ruling majority and secretary of the ministry, is it really a double price increase not a supply disturbance, do they really think that if Croatia has the most expensive fuel in the region it is not a supply disturbance and even how it happened, the market will say, so who regulates that market? It's this Hera. It is this HERA in which your government appoints a man who will do what it does, that supports what the minister said today that he will not regulate through excise duties because that excise duty is listed in the budget and the government is very welcome to charge the budget. We heard the free market on the board today. I already talked about energy laws once about what a completely free market means and what it means is that in Croatia only 20% of the citizens and practically the entire economy, they have a free bargaining of market prices. In America, you witnessed where the governors of their states had to react at the time of market disturbances, practically to people, the price for the most common heating amounted to over $10,000. That's when you make a deal with someone who delivers you, and you say I gambled a little bit. We're witnessing that probably some of our distributors gambled with the price of gas, so they didn't buy enough, then we'll calm down the rest of the citizens or something. Now the question here is, do we want to work that way, do we want to work that way, and is what we're finally transferring to citizens right? I'm telling you it's not. It's the task of the people you name here. Now, a little bit about the price of gas. The price of gas when it has been at the world's lowest levels for the past few years, I don't remember that the price of gas in Croatia has been falling, now that it's at the highest levels, the price for the economy has flown under the clouds. The price of gasoline will be remembered there somewhere in 2009, I think 130 dollars barrel, 12 kuna price of gasoline, today the price of barrels on the world market just watched 80.05, 12 kuna questionnaire. It was done by our regulator, it made a market, or it did it between us and our government, which is how you said it knew how to manage in crisis. And how well she managed the Covid crisis we'll talk about tomorrow. Themes More Than Good, that's too bad. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62811	We have one violation of the Rules of Procedure, a respected Nadica Dreven Buddinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62812	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues... that this government corrects what the government has brought before your government in 2012 because HERA is working under the 2012 law, the president of the administration has appointed your government, and ours, this majority will now correct it, because with us most will correct the practice in your party where the minority solves the majority. [[Speech is not enabled.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62813	It was your more replica, you have a warning. Next breach of the Rules of Procedure, called Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62814	The Honorable President was injured in Article 238, I think I heard well last time we talked about the Croatian Regulatory Agency that for the man who was USKOK's indictee it was then asked from our ranks to do something about the government. I have no problem with anyone who has done something wrong, every Croatian government acts in the way that it should act in the manner of a good master.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62815	You used it to be a replica, a reminder to you. Final debate on behalf of the promoter, Honored Secretary of State Ivo Milatić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62816	... I thank you, Mr. Vice President, for the debate that has taken place in various subjects clearly and in the subject of what is the subject, but also in these other topics. [[Specially enabled.]] To clarify immediately what is regulated in Croatia, which regulates HERA. So this is where the Croatian public works if who now has the nerve and patience to listen to us in this hour for the record. HERA oil derivatives are not regulated. If we're talking about the part where HERA regulates something, and it has to do with oil and oil derivatives, it's a transport tariff for JANAFA. It's the only thing HERA regulates. So this other thing is not regulated by HERA. In 2015, in the government of Zoran Milanovic, we warned that more of the weekly appearance in front of a pump in Miramarska where Deputy Minister Leveric or who was already Mazal or who was already where we published the price every time because we had this formula, we determined clearly in accordance with all the EU's positive regulations and everything else since we were in EU accession that energy prices when it comes to derivatives form market. What I would agree with you, Mr Brumnic, is that you realized that in 2009, the oil barrel was 140, and today it is 19, and today the price is much higher, and the excise duties and VAT are practically the same. Here comes the main problem that our suppliers have played a little bit and that the average margin on gasoline is 1 kuna 44, and on diesel 2 kuna and 18. This is where the Croatian government will certainly act because it is not normal, because these are too many margins. And here in front of this house, I am responsibly saying that we as a ministry and as a government are thinking and considering using some of the elements that exist in the law on the oil and oil market. That's why I said I couldn't say now what, where, how do you let the government make it and that at the highest level in this country a decision is made for certain things. And that the government is going to sit on their hands and let someone react so quickly, and in the tanks are this fuel and oil derivatives that are bought at a much cheaper price, and when something cheap doesn't do anything, it won't be because there's really something to do. As far as this second part is concerned, when I'm talking about HERI, I wouldn't want Croatian citizens to see it if it were now some agency where some people who are all compromised, like this, like that, that's something that sucks. It is a very, very important and good agency with professional, dedicated and valuable people. To talk about the moment when the president of the board of directors became a suspect and there was something questioned, detained, returned to work, that we now needed the same moment as in some times long ago to remove the axe and saber and cut everything in its root, we are, we respect the presummation of innocence until someone proved something. HERA functioned in accordance with the law. The fact that Mr. Jurekovic had or had some situations will be determined by the authorities that are again other kinds of authorities in this country. You are one, and we are the other, and that is the third; they will establish what is with him. The fact that I said it was quite logical that he now reported to the competition that for this reason, that, if we didn't explain ourselves here that he would certainly not have been proposed by us who were on the committee, it was quite logical my thinking as employees of the ministry and members of this government, but that we who will be rid of Jurekovic just because he was accused, and the solution is exclusively in the jurisdiction of this body, only in the jurisdiction of this body is the resolution. We can't get rid of him, you could all run his resolution here, collect his signatures, ask him to get rid of it, collect most of it, and get rid of it. You didn't do it. We have concluded that HERA works, works at the end is not there Jurekovic only, there are four more people there. You are talking about this case of a recently elected member of the Governing Council, in accordance with the Law on conflict of interest, there are no obstacles to it being a member of the Governing Council. So her husband was what he was, according to the law he entered when he had to step in and I don't see any legal obstacles to it. There is no need to talk about the expertise and knowledge of the board member at all, it is an expert in top quality, and HERA has not lost anything with it but just won. When it comes to gas prices, it is the HERA that regulates it, and therefore Croatia enjoys that up to 1.4. gas will not be collected, or if it happens to collect for the New Year it will be minimal for what is said z in the case of a transport tariff, but as far as I understand and by no means, the entire heated season of Croatian citizens will have the price of gas as little as in Europe. Croatia's warehouses are full of 90% unlike Germany's and similar ones that are half empty because people think they're burning mazut in power plants. We have half a billion cubic cubics in the environment and 140,000 cubics always on LNG, and the entire households of the Republic of Croatia can't spend more than 600,000 cubics a year, households, whole production, total consumption in the Republic of Croatia clearly somewhere around two billion and 500, 600, 700 depending on the year. So the price of gas is stable until 1.4, after 1.4 we'll see everything depends because it will be monitored throughout the year as well as in what way it will happen, but I'm sure and that this jump will not be as terrible if it is as it is in other countries. At the price of electricity from 33 European countries, not only those from the EU but also these other countries, Croatia is at the price of electricity 26. to say that our electricity is total nonsense. We are 26 of the 33 countries, we have a universal power service in which HEP delivers in that service that you pay, we are all probably more or less at universal service, at 50 euros MW HEP charges you and me and all the citizens who listen to me, and you know well because electricity is now, 120 and you say that it is wrong, that HERA is not doing its job well, that these prices did not work well for HERA in the interest of Croatian citizens. They pay for the world's most expensive electricity. What are we talking about? Well, let's not do that, so let's not say we don't have a strategy. Who says we don't have strategies? So a strategy was adopted by the '30s with a view of '50s, the National Climate Energy Plan was adopted, the low carbon strategy was adopted, everything was brought. Laws have been passed now, you have recently passed the Electricity Market Act, which is a prerequisite for renewable sources in the Republic of Croatia to develop as well as possible. I agree that all the irregularities that were and for which I personally do not want to take any responsibility, but aware of the facts and burdens of certain affairs being mentioned, we made sure that neither the small z and the decimal in those laws could possibly use someone to think of something. And here I thank you all that you and everyone participated in this and whatever we could accept. And now there's going to be a law on renewable sources, and what you've been discussing, we've written everything down, at least I hope so, but if there's anything that might be there, there are amendments, there's a debate, there's everything. So let's not talk like that and let's play that ink, it's just not nice because it's not true because no government in this country is that it hasn't done anything. And you can't say now we've clearly plotted until the end of '24. 1500 MW of new renewable electricity installed in Croatia, we wrote it as a prerequisite for paying us out of NPO, we didn't memorize it, we didn't memorize it, we're sure it's going to happen. To talk about Kosinj that it's something that's wrong, I don't know why someone can say it's something that's wrong, if we want renewable electricity and Kosinj is renewable electricity, it's the new 400 MW. To say that it is not good I cannot understand, it is the new 400 MW if Croatia has to have a minimum of 2600, 700, 800 to 3500 new MW of renewable electricity that is 400, be careful it is 400 of those 2600. I'm surprised we mentioned nuclear energy, so nuclear energy is non-carbonic energy. As a country, we have defined ourselves as thinking that nuclear energy is non-carbonic energy and if we have shared property with friends in Slovenia, why wouldn't we be interested in this plant working until 2043, why wouldn't it be of interest and that energy is thought to be free of CO2 footprints, when it's free of CO2 footprints? Why don't we maybe think about tomorrow if in the future we join another project and we have both there and an extra MW, why? Because we're going to have a bunch of renewable electricity that's unstable, it needs to be balanced, you have to have the power that's permanent, and that's thermo, nuclear, biogas and reversible power plants or hydroelectric power plants. You have to have this to have a stable system that will be renewable because the wind blows when it blows, the sun shines when it shines. And you need to clearly produce hydrogen in order to clearly store the excess energy of renewables in hydrogen in the future and burn it at the moment when, when that energy is gone. So Croatia has a strategy, knows what it wants, we'll do it. By the end of this government's term, we'll be making serious megawatts whether you want it or not. I agree with you, sir, that as far as these methodologies are concerned, that's what we asked the new president at the interview, hopefully which one of you will choose a new candidate is still not the president, but I hope you will choose him, and we asked him about how he sees HERE's vision in the light of the new green transitions. And we were satisfied with the answer as he said he saw it because we are aware that methodologies should be changed that procedures should be simplified, that HERA must have much, much more fun with electricity than with other situations, that we are bad at HERI with frames, that there are some v.d. The directors there who must become directors, that we all got guarantees from that candidate that if he gave him this esteemed home that he would do it and that he would work on it. We have no reason to doubt the independence of HER and the people who work there no matter where they were, what they were doing and how they've been doing so far. What we know was doing well your job at least as far as Mr. Zhamboki's concerned, he's a professional, competent man and a man who I'm sure will be a good chairman of the HERE Board clearly if this esteemed home chooses him. And in that name I wouldn't hold you here any longer, but please don't say so that everything is black and that nothing is wrong, that nothing is independent, that it's all dependent because it's not true. HERA functions in accordance with the law as an independent energy regulatory agency, so it will be and so it has been and so will be. And you've passed that law, and by that law, HERA works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62817	We've got plenty of replicas. The first is the Honorable Named Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62818	My dear secretary, I don't know what you'd be replicating right now. As far as the Agency's importance is concerned, I've just started speaking with the fact that it's an important agency and that this is not the way to bring appointing or dispose of the agency. That you will react to the price of fuel says who you named in the management of INE because INA is the largest fuel distributor in the Republic of Croatia, so I believe that your members of the management you appointed there are doing what you sent them to that Croatian company. And as for my colleagues' response to renewable energy sources, here I have to admit I am one of those who read all the materials, so I read this, to the truth of will, you gave him a maximum of 5 points, but renewable sources are only mentioned as renewable sources, not a word more. So I have to admit, I don't know how you're from this answer. I'd like Croatian citizens to look at him, realize he'll be [[Intruder: Time.]] good in that area. [[Intruder: time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62819	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62820	I have nothing to say to you but to continue to think HERA is independent of both this good and quality agency. And as for the gentleman we interviewed, he gave answers that satisfied us as a commission, and I am convinced that he understands what this is about. And if it's not written in writing, it doesn't mean he doesn't know it and he won't know how to handle it. And that's all I have to tell you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62821	Next replica, Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62822	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, you said no government, there was no government without doing anything. Maybe we should inform our colleagues on the right when they're arguing because I agree with you every government has done something, sometimes good, sometimes bad, let's do better, let's do less, let's do more, but each one has done something. But I understand that you're in an uninvisible position on one side because you're defending something here in front of us that we haven't discussed. It might be a good idea to think about amending the law if the resolution board puts forward a proposal from the director or director so that after the debate on the board, it would certainly be a little less, I won't say the blunted blade, but a little less debate would be here. But I want to refer to what you said something about the price of oil should be done, but we haven't heard what. I understand that you may not be able to tell us now what neither, but you can't tell us when, and the Prime Minister said that the situation is being followed and that the government will know how to answer, when, nothing, in any case, and prices are wild.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62823	As for when the government is going to do it, so tomorrow is the government, so look when the government is done maybe tomorrow something the government does. So, if I were, I don't think the Prime Minister is a man who isn't capable of answering all the challenges because I can't imagine some of the Prime Ministers that I've been the assistant minister of this government too so that they can behave that this all fell on their backs as it fell on the back of the Prime Minister, this government. So I don't think we're gonna find the answer. Yeah, I know the gentlemen one, the other one, the third one, so I can objectively say what I mean.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62824	Next replica, respected Marina Opačak Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62825	Dear Secretary of State from your final presentation rang in my ear when you said that the largest fuel price formation was supplied by suppliers who, in your opinion, unfairly take too much of the cake, a $1.70 margin, and that the state actually has no room for either reaction or that the regulatory agency can do nothing about it. Please either convince me that I've heard something wrong or that if you really think so again, you really don't think that there's a regulatory agency or a state. The government has no room to act on this?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62826	I said it well, but maybe you didn't remember what I said. I said there's nothing the regulatory agency can do about it, and the state can do about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62827	Followed by the replica of the esteemed Stipan Shashin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62828	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Here from your presentation it is really visible and crystal clear that the Government of the Republic of Croatia absolutely has everything under control, keeps the situation under control and will in time and know how to respond to these current disturbances that occurred on the market. As far as the opposition is concerned, we have once again witnessed a play of pure pulsism with a basic ignorance of the foundation or the topic they are discussing, so they are asking HERA to regulate the prices of gasoline and fuel, so here I think that people have seen, seen, recognized, and that nothing new is practical. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62829	It's understandable when you're in opposition to saying one thing when you're in power some say it the other way. Let's say the affair that is often mentioned here began on 31.12. one year when there was a party in power who was now in opposition and at the head of the government one Prime Minister who is here today thank God the president of the country, I wish him health and all the best in life, and then it was that my minister at the time had bewitched the entire government and that only he knew what had happened that the whole government had not known what decision had been made and that was just the last moment before the end of the year. But it's like that in life, that's how it goes, just forget it, so now this one's talking like we're the best, everything's great. She's got a TBF song. Everything's gonna be great.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62830	Injury of the Rules of Procedure of Martin Opačak Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62831	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure. 238. Namely, a colleague of Shashin initiates the i.e. Insinuates the ignorance of the subject on this side of the assembly. It's not about not knowing the subject I was just commenting on what Mr. Secretary of State said in his final presentation. So I refer to what he said then means he doesn't know the subject or what you wanted to say with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62832	Well, your warning wasn't an injury. Next hit by Mirela Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62833	Your Honor, Secretary of State. You have injured the Rules of Procedure. In 238, the most interesting fact for me is that you are an active participant of every government in the Resolute Ministry that mentions and binds this Krsh-Padene affair. Well, just like that, every once in a while, you're asking me to think more and more about what your role in this affair is.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62834	It's a warning to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62835	Thank God no one but this.../Speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62836	Mr. Secretary of State, you didn't get your word.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62837	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62838	Next violation of the rules of procedure called Brumnic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62839	The Honorable Chairman, you have injured the Rules of Procedure without your colleagues giving notice and when you have not returned it to the Secretary of State to speak on the subject. I would fully understand that a fellow secretary of state is sticking to the subject, talking about the subject, not remembering former good or bad relationships that I'm not going to get into, but I say let's stick to the subject. I'd like the secretary of state to read nicely here in front of the entire HS what to do about HERA. I've been reading. What we adopted in HS [[Santer Invader: Time.]] And that's where the energy is written, etc. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62840	Okay, you're getting a warning. Shashin had a replica as far as I can remember, no. Was it a replica? It was a replica. As for the Secretary of State... As far as the secretary of state is concerned, when people here are telling me all night long off the subject, he might be allowed one sentence. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here's your line, distinguished representative Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62841	Thank you. If I don't know the subject I'm proud of, then we should rename that agency because it's no longer energy but partial energy because it doesn't concern everyone. Yes, the mistakes were without further ado, but there are mistakes then it is responsibility for those who have identified the error, and eventually some elections have been lost, right by the SDP to then fix that error. I don't see why... you fixed it because as you boasted about what was done with the gas, no one can tell me that you can't do it with oil or raw materials for the production of derivatives. I don't see why not. And if we are also talking about electricity billing, today Croatian citizens are only paying energy at real cost at an annual level in a way to finance distributors and producers with advance payments [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62842	Do you have an answer?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62843	I don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62844	There isn't. The next replica Mirela Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62845	Dear Secretary of State, it would take me an hour to replicate everything you've just given in your speech, but here's a chance I'm going to take advantage of, so I'm going to ask you only about State intervention or the government at fuel prices. You said you'd go in the direction of impact on the margin reduction. So you're not going to have an impact on the excise duty, nor on the VAT base, on the VAT account, but you're going to affect the free market and actually pressure distributors or suppliers to lower the margin because it's as you say too much in that price that's being charged. Here I'd like to ask you a really clear answer to that.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62846	It's me, I've been saying that the margins are too big and that's one of the reasons why the price is so high. And if the Government uses the Institute of the Regulation in accordance with the Law on the Market in Oil and Oil Products, then it will set a price, a retail price. It is important for Croatian citizens and businessmen to fix on, we have the right to maximum 90 days, to fix the price of the top and that is that. It is most important for a Croatian citizen not to suffer the price.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62847	The next replica, the esteemed representative, Miro Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62848	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, we have recently passed energy-related laws in this assembly, in the direction of electricity, in order to enable as much as possible in Croatia to build a renewable source of electricity. There we heard this debate with Hidroelectrica Kosinj which I have to admit is not clear to me because I think it's a reversible even power plant that has an even double or triple value because it can right at times when there's a lot of electricity, and there's no one to spend it, use that energy to bring the water back from the bottom into the top tank and then use it to produce electricity right when it's most needed, or when it's nowhere to eat. So, it's multiple useful, and I think at this point in time, all those who should give some of their plots or something to build that hydropower plant. It will be adequately compensated. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62849	I agree with everything you've said.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-10-13-0.u62850	Okay, thank you, Secretary of State. With this, we've exhausted the debate on this wheel. I'm closing the debate.
