ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u57749	Now they're following up on behalf of the representatives' clubs and the independents'. He is the first respected representative, Nino Rasdic, on behalf of the Most Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u57750	The Honorable Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs. At the beginning of this presentation, I want to say that today we will talk a lot about the media and express our discomfort over a situation that led to yesterday's municipal court's ruling in Zagreb where one portal is forbidden to publish the texts until the process is completed. As far as I know it is the first such case in Croatia and I personally feel uncomfortable although it is obviously all legions of artis, not now entering the metrics of these texts that have been published the whole case, we will talk about it when the time comes and about it. Such a situation as a parliamentary representative makes me uncomfortable and smells of censorship and censorship. The second thing that makes me uncomfortable is the fact that we will probably discuss the Law on Electronic Media again in the evenings, perhaps late in the nights instead of that point being put on schedule tomorrow morning, I don't see that tomorrow, with all due respect to tomorrow's points, the points that are placed in the morning that are more important than the Law on Electronic Media that we will discuss again in the night away from the public eye, from the public who have important contributions to the public service broadcast at 4 o'clock in the night or morning depends on how we watch, we are a night or morning type and in public in which the 4th channel of public tv service does not directly transfer the assembly sessions but does so only until 2 p.m. with that transfer of interruption until 2 if they have some government and headquarters statements, which combined with this push in the late schedules of unfortunate points ends that the vast majority of our citizens cannot see the issues thatmatter. The low level of public culture and public dialogue is also related to the situation of introducing or not introducing the euro into the Republic of Croatia, more specifically the abolition of the kuna, we can call it that. When discussing EU accession, I, as someone who acted in public outside politics, pointed out that there was no real public, quality public debate in Croatia about the advantages and lack of EU entry. I personally organised some 10-15 stands at the time in Zagreb where we tried to face quality experts on various issues with arguments for and against EU entry. It took us months, perhaps even years to look at the public TV service, but this was not the case, with us having a debate about EU entry being a couple of anti-meats, on the one hand, it was a myth to join the EU to take away our cheese and cream, on the other hand, if we join the EU that very quickly rising honey and milk, as the German will work and fill EU funds, and we will use ourselves abundantly. After 8 years. We see that none of this has been realised, nor have our cheeses and creams been taken away, but on the other hand, honey and milk have not come into existence, but we have lost hundreds of thousands of working-age citizens who have sucked out other labour markets, we have burned in the last place in the EU, if there were no crowns, Bulgaria would probably have passed us at GDP level. I now see the same thing as repeating around the euro, the prime minister is making a worrying statement that the referendum on the euro will not be. How can he say that? That's an anti-constitutional statement. The Constitution and the Law on Referendum defines the rules of the referendum, if the signatures of the rightdoers are collected, it will go to the Constitutional Court, if it passes, the referendum will be held, it is not he who should be told whether there will be a referendum or not. Mr Sanader, the chairman, said that the choice to introduce or not introduce the euro is the choice between the Balkans and Europe, the West, but Montenegro and Kosovo have the euro and Denmark and Sweden do not have it, the note bene, the Swedish have refused to introduce the euro in the referendum. Many countries that in many ways can be an example of economic development and the use of European funds such as Poland, Hungary and the Czech Republic have not introduced it. It doesn't have to mean they won't, but they've estimated in these last years that they're not worth it. It is also wrong for this to come down to an ideological debate as some right-wing people, sovereigns are against the introduction of the euro and others are for, this is not the case. Let us listen to what Maruska Vizek, our economic expert, is in principle for the introduction of the euro, but not now, she says, not now because it is too fast and more damage than benefits. The special topic is our terms and potential hairstyle of inflation in Croatia, a topic that we will soon open, and that is what we see in the daily room, we who go shopping in the food store, say, or energy and what the State Statistics Institute says, but I say, these topics will be very soon global. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u57816	Thank you. On behalf of the Green-Left Blocks Club, Honored Representative Urša Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u57817	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm gonna talk about an inconceivable concession scandal on the radio, Top Radio. Therefore, the Council for Electronic Media voted at its session on Wednesday (September 15th) with a vote ratio of 5 to 2 to sign a contract with Top Radio for radio concession Radio 101. Otherwise, it is a kind of precedent because after the Council decided on the award of the concession, it has never been voted before on the signing of a contract with the publisher already elected. The reason for such a precedent lies in the fact that from the moment of the decision to award a concession of 28.7. in this year Top Radio until 15.9. the Council received additional information, which refers to the confirmation by the state-owned company, State-owned immovableity d.o.o., but also to the publisher of Top Radio that the contract on subsidisation of the space listed in the tender documentation as its formal part is invalid and that the tenant for that business space is the company Enter IQ d.o.o. it was not allowed to give room in the sub-basement, and the letter of the law had lost the right to lease that space and must be returned within the legal time limit to the State's real estate. Since the text of the competition clearly indicates that only the documentation which is complete meets the conditions of the competition, and this has been demonstrated that Top radio d.o.o. on the day of the application, it did not have legal and complete documentation and accordingly did not satisfy the conditions of the invitation to tender, as pointed out by the Legal Service of the Electronic Media Agency. Since most of the members of the electronic media council were rudely deaf to the law, the conditions of the competition and interpretation of the professional legal service of the agency, President Josip Popovac and his deputy Robert Tomljenović voted against such a conclusion and gave separate opinions arguing their views that protect the principle of legality of the competition and advocate the application of Article 76. Law on electronic media for permanent confiscation of concessions. The top radio should never have been released or admitted to a round of valid bidders for reasons because there is a whole series of evidence that the owner of Top Radio on the market works for the sake of publishing works jointly with other radio publishers such as Antena Zagreb, Enter Zagreb, National Radio, Extra FM. As shown in the common office space, joint accounting management, common sales policy and joint marketing agency, joint specialised radio advertising agencies, joint production of the IT programme, and that the owners of radio publishers who should be top radio competitors for Top Radio's interests are advocating their own ownership stakes in radio stations and guaranteeing Top Radio owners' credit and additional own property. This is called illicit media concentration and is prohibited by the Law on Electronic Media Articles 54 to 62. This has not been announced by the Council for Electronic Media, but we hope that the Administrative Court will announce itself, which so far has just refused the requested interim measure, but has not discussed or made any decision on the scale of the matter. But we return to five members and members of the electronic media council who openly support violations of laws and procedures. If both the law and the notification of the intention to grant a concession stipulates that it is mandatory to have and to attach proof of compliance with the spatial conditions, then it is mandatory. And if it is proved that the contract proving the spatial conditions is worthless then the documentation is incomplete and as such must be rejected. And in the current phase after the decision to award concessions on the basis of false evidence, the concession must be legally withdrawn. They do not have the right to comply with the law or the prescribed tender procedure and freely and arbitrarily and to interpret the laws and provisions of the competition. That's why I expect the government of the Republic of Croatia to deliver a request for a shift. members and members of the council who have disobeyed the laws and procedures. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u57871	The next statement is on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the respected representative Ljubomir Kolarek.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u57872	Thank you very much, esteemed chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. I come from a place where if you go all over Međimurje, you won't find a free let's say an empty agricultural plot, but it's a matter of one tradition, a culture where everyone with their job and a country on the side that he worked for his needs. Times change, people no longer have time, no mechanization, the possibility of processing these areas but the surfaces remain fragmented, it's hard to have a large enough area and it's a problem of serious agricultural economies to meet certain conditions needed to report to major competitions, get support, etc. There are many problems in agriculture, they can be counted easily. Small and non-competitive economies, large numbers of age economies, fragmented agricultural land, small production plots and low technological levels of production. Insufficient use of agrotechnical measures, poor productivity, poor treatment of lawns and agricultural waste. No one escapes from it, and this government is trying to solve problems slowly but surely. This introduction slowly introduces a problem in agriculture that I want to talk about. It's a problem of the agricultural land. The definition from the textbook is clear. Contemporary treatment and the application of agritechnical measures that allow for grouped and regulated land, more rational land use, production costs are reduced, labour productivity is increased and agricultural products are increased. The fact is that, after the commission, there remains a smaller number of properties that are much larger and, as far as I can see, that, after the commission, they are dealt with a little earlier in the agenda, the first point of the order of the Parliament, which is quite already said, about property-legal relations. Today in the Republic of Croatia, small and depreciated holdings of agricultural land which do not provide satisfactory conditions for successful and profitable agricultural production are prevailing, which is why in 2015 the Law on the COMMACATION of Agricultural Land was adopted. In the Republic of Croatia we have different areas individually, from 0.8 ha per plot to 2.5 ha, in Krapina-Zagorje County even less, 0.3. That's why there's a lot to be done. A special larger commission in the Republic of Croatia was recorded 30 years ago and the logical question is why nothing was done in the meantime. All relevant institutions participated in the draft law, but the more important shift is, unfortunately, only today when the Law on Cooperation is in one amendment and to comply with the Law on Agricultural Land. Of course, there will be a lot of complaints about the cost of composing, but the Benefits of Commission are very large and the interest is certainly as already mentioned in today's proposal for a multi-annual programme of cadastrian changes in the construction area, so here as regards agricultural land, it is very important. There are conditions for the implementation of the membership because the Law on Cooperation is in line with the Law on Agricultural Land and I believe that by 2026 it will be. how the plan is to restore the commission to 18,000 hectares through the National Recovery Plan. And I'm optimistic about it and it's necessary to make this part of the economy And that farm came back to life. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u57960	The next statement is on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club, the respected representative Ruzica Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u57961	Dear Croatian citizens were shocked when the State Statistics Institute announced that consumer prices in Croatia increased 3.1% annually in August. It is particularly shocking to see the highest inflation rate since April 2013 when inflation was 3.3%. Citizens see their prices growing in front of their eyes every day. Citizens feel that they can buy much less for their salary today than they did 5 or 10 years ago since we witness daily the rise in fuel prices and basics such as milk, oil, bread. How Croatia's tourist country is growing prices are most felt during the season at sea because traders want to earn as much as possible to the harm of domestic customers as possible. Our merchants then go with the logic that they are strangers of the deeper pocket that they will without a problem buy at the prices they are looking for, and of the local people on Croatian citizens then little who thinks. The problem is not so much in margins but in purchase prices that are higher, the price of production rises due to increasing energy prices, rising food prices, also contributed to poor weather conditions this spring, especially the cold that destroyed a large number of Croatian farmers. Let's add everything to the fight, but Croatia does not give up the elimination of the anti-urban defence. Food prices increased 2.4% annually, alcoholic beverages and tobacco 5.5%, restaurants and hotels 4.4%, apartments, water, electricity, gas and other fuels by more than 2%, communication by more than 2%, furniture, house equipment, regular household maintenance by more than 2%. According to available information, the price of the petrol Eurosuper 95 ranged from 10.92 kuna per litre to 11.30 kuna per litre. According to information from the Ministry of Economy, as much as 55% of the price of Eurosuper refers to State and VAT duties, while in the price of the elevator is 50% and half. With a rough bill, we get to the next one, which is that drivers pay 11.30 kuna, even 6.2 kuna to the state. However, government representatives claim that we could hear these days and in the assembly, how the government can only determine the price of derivatives in the event of major market disturbances or the threat of state interest. Asked the Government if they are considering reducing the burden of citizens paid in the price of fuel and whether they have some limit of, say, 12, 13 kuna in a litre of retailing where they will still use the tools at their disposal to lower the fuel price, they replied: Since the entry into force of the new Law on the market in oil and petroleum products at the end of February 2014, prices of oil derivatives in the Republic of Croatia are formed freely on market principles, as well as in other EU Member States. Each trader may set different prices for individual fuels at any of its petrol stations and change them as necessary and daily. Well, ladies and gentlemen, this is not entirely true because it is in the government's hands enough of a wide space, of course, if the government wants it to be able to reduce the price of fuel and thus directly affect the standard of Croatian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u58007	The next statement of view is on behalf of the IDS Representatives Club, the esteemed representative Emil Daus.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u58008	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. The moon is September, the month of historical paternity decisions. On Saturday, September 25th, the day of the Istrian County, the day the decision of the then ZAVNOH on the accession of Istria to Croatia was officially confirmed in Pazin. When our ancestors decided to say no to the greatest evil in the last century and join the motherland. And they did it, obviously courage, desire, unity was strong enough. This unity between the Istrian Croats of the peoples and anti-fascists of Italian and Slovenian anti-fascists and representatives of the church in Istria may be a unique example of how something on the first perhaps incompatible can be a synergy effect towards the same goal. This unity, but also the wisdom and humanity of our ancestors who did not burden new generations with their severe traumas that passed during that period gave the basic foundations for the co-existence and tolerance that we now know in Istria and what are examples in the good part of the rest of the country. This applies to members of Croatian and Slovenian families, as well as Italian families, because we must not forget that members of the indigenous Italian community in Istria passed their Calvary after 1943. Go on. And that mutual forgiveness so that hatred would not be passed on to the next generation was the basic foundation of building a modern and toleranced society in Istria. These values continued to be preserved through new challenges during the 1990 ’ s until today. And Istria today is an example for the good rest of the Croatian region on this issue. However, no matter what the challenges today await us, perhaps not as our notes and our nonets had, but their resolution is very important for the future of our children. Unable usurpation, devastation of space along the western and eastern Istrian coast, placing wire razors on the border with Slovenia, a centralized three-way state management system that prevents faster development and effective control of developments on the ground. If it is not understood when talking about an orderly state and society, then this sentence may be clearer to some, through the lawless construction of a colleague and colleagues, it is directly threatened not only by the legal order but also by the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia, because the vast majority of these illegal objects are owned by foreign citizens, and also by the citizens of neighbouring Slovenia with whom we share a lot of good and common in the near history, but by a country that has placed a razor wire physically and psychological barrier which we didn't really think we would have the opportunity to see more in these areas, especially not among free, democratic and sovereign states within a large European family. In order to address situations that occur at local level, which under the applicable laws cannot be solved by the county, cities and municipalities, including the problem of illegal construction, there is a solution. IDS has been proposing it for 30 years, called autonomy for some known as regionalisation, decentralisation is essentially the same. Give authority to the greater regional and local self-government, but also responsibility and you will see how everything will begin to be resolved in its unsettled court. Let the counties and cities that can do this, want to get into their... construction inspection affairs, I guarantee that in Istria, in a very short time, we will solve the problem of illegal construction. In addition, if we want to preserve space as another of the rare resources this country has, we need unity of all regardless of worldview and beliefs, such as the September '43 paving decisions. The illegal construction on the Istrian coast has threatened the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia in this area, an area that belonged to the Republic of Croatia's decisions we are celebrating these days, but also the area that has given the most value of what it has, the lives and health of its people in order to be an integral part of the Republic of Croatia. That is why we call on the government of the Republic of Croatia to solve this burning problem together and protect the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia, but we also preserve space for new generations to come. With this message, I congratulate all citizens and citizens of Istria on the recent day of the Istrian County.../The speaker speaks Italian./... Istrijani, Istrian women at home and by dawn happy the day of Istrian County. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u58081	And the latest statement of views on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representative Club, the respected representative Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u58082	I welcome to the House of Ministers of Culture, whose restrictions on freedom of the media do not go to honor, and this is exactly the topic I will talk about in this free speech. Not long ago, in 2018, it took our courts 2 years, 2 years for a temporary measure to decide on the height of child restraint until the divorce case ended. I point out that this is a decision that depends on whether or not that child has something to eat. Today, only 3 years later, it takes our courts only 3 weeks to bring a temporary measure to protect the unmoneyed search of the so-called. protection of violations of the right to reputation and honor and professional work. However, a temporary measure prohibiting one portal from writing further on a socially important subject did not draw attention because of the speed of decision-making of the court in the case, but because of its content. So it's a precedent that actually prohibits the review of disputed circumstances that refer to possible corruptive crimes. Such a decision and a temporary measure, which has been set by the Halter portal, have moved the borders allowed and not allowed in public space and public reporting into a very, very dangerous area. During the day, many politicians have already voiced their suspicion that such a decision, such a precedent so far, has not been recorded in our legal space, in any way, indicates the possible connection and instrumentalisation of the judge by the political party currently in power, and given the connection of the political party with the former mayor and the people he has placed in the system. However, if the criteria adopted by this provisional measure were applied, we would be brought as a society that other media cannot question whether this is the case because reporting could also be put into the sphere of damage to the reputation, honor, dignity and professional work of the judge in the case. This is extremely dangerous and controversial to the extent that the role of the media is crucial in the anti-corruption system, the more we find ourselves in a situation today where the fight against corruption is practically gone and when all of our competent institutions are under-tapped. The media also represents the vigilance, consciousness, and conscience of a society without which there is simply no right and freedom in that content as we know it today. I'll also return to this topic of speed resolution in the case. So, on the one hand, we all aim at a quick and effective judiciary. I wish the three-week term was the longest standard possible, and the fact is that from this time and this example that I set at the beginning, there have been some shifts. However, we still have a situation when I ask my fellow lawyers and fellow judges, so as much as it really takes to take any temporary measure, the decision is ha depending on the case of how and how. As much as the objective of an effective and swift judiciary is in everyone's interest, we must not allow such a judiciary to become a functioning and effective weapon of democracy. And no matter what happens with the appeal in this case, the fact is that the discussion of this issue will not stop. This problem will continue to be run by the spear, so I am telling whoever is the idea author of the idea of taking such a temporary measure, that we will in a way examine all roads that are more or less always leading to HDZ. Whether it is a review of the work of the Poliklinic for the Protection of Children and Young People of the City of Zagreb, whether it is a review of the competent ministry that should carry out inspection tasks, whether it is the work of the judiciary and courts as a whole. Finally, we will also see the answers to certain questions through a vote on a future candidate for the Supreme Court president, especially since one of the 5, one of the 5 objectives of his programme is precisely to address the judiciary by rejecting lawsuits brought against the media and against publishers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u58143	The following statement on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns, the respected representative Vesna Vucilović.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u58144	Thank you very much, esteemed chairman, colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to talk about a subject that is often present here in the assembly, which is health care. We all see how debt in healthcare grows like mushrooms after rain, and it is no news to everyone, it is clear that our health care has long been mature for change. This epidemic that we are witnessing has further complicated the condition of any kind, but it is precisely the epidemic that is often cited as causing this condition, but it is definitely not the only cause of the health problem. The delay in implementing reforms and the sin of indemnity has brought our health here where we are right now. Ministers change, problems remain. Even so, Minister Beroš's website has been multiplied by the PR agencies for over a million kunas, and then platforms that do not work and cost more than 4 million kunas and that digital part is just the tip of the iceberg. Multiple higher prices of drugs caused by late payments may actually be I'm convinced, and a bigger problem. This is best outlined by various medicines that have been more expensive and gone up, collected in recent months and all justice by the fact that the state is late with payments, the government does not pay bills in time, and the wholesalers do so somewhat to all of us citizens. The list of illogical actions in the health system does not end there. External services are also used for other jobs and not only for the creation of digital platform websites. In hospital health institutions 51 lawyers have been employed with a legal exam and over the past 2 years for the services of external associates representing these health institutions before courts, a little less than 22 million kunas have been spent. Public procurement is carried out in a way that every few DCOM solutions arrive on the basis of which a certain amount must be paid to all who made the offer and gave it. Only to create an idea solution for the new KBC in Osijek was paid to tens of thousands of kunas based on such solutions. The waiting lists in our hospitals are getting longer and longer and the management of waiting lists for example. The process of magnetic resonance in the ministry, institute and 13 health institutions was assessed only partially by the State Audit Office because there were significant irregularities and failures related to the keeping of waiting lists and recording of waiting data on magnetic resonance procedures and ensuring equal treatment of patients in access to these procedures, the translation takes place through order, waiting too long, etc. At the same time, the least we can talk about is the problem of our health system, which is the departure of health care personnel abroad. According to official statistics, only 2013 to 2018 went directly from the system to 3180 nurses and technicians, most often in Germany and this process has been going on for some time, so we can say that some 7500 nurses have left the health system over the past 10 years, which is actually every 4 nurses and technician. Today, when healthcare professionals, nurses and technicians protest here in Zagreb, they should ask themselves very much and imagine these figures because our health system currently survives exclusively thanks to the work of healthcare professionals who are getting smaller, this is the key problem of our health system and we need to talk about it and look for solutions. What is necessary is the rationalization of business and the stories about how the isolations are too small, they simply don't stand, acrobatics with relative and absolute numbers don't help, only a larger number of employees and wages growth can solve it. So I also appeal from this pay phone, let's not raise any more tensions, let's not put any additional burden on healthcare professionals because ultimately all of us users, patients, we pay all of these failures and we are the biggest victims together with healthcare professionals.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u58188	Next is the presentation of the position of the Club of Representatives of HSS and RF, respected representative Zeljko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u58189	Your Honor, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. Today I want to talk here about a trend that has appeared in Croatia, which is the construction of a burner, the disposal of waste without a known composition in places that are questionable whether it is allowed at all. Unfortunately, it's about a burning site project in Kutina, my hometown where my children live, where my parents were born, the burner, i.e. The project called Eco-tell Park. A handsome name, as you can see, means eco-friendly to the ecological, river, recycling, and the park to something green and beautiful, but it's a huge drive that needs to burn 205,000 tons of plastic, all kinds and saturative mules from the purifiers of various cities that contain the worst waste and heavy metals that can be found in the purifier. Unfortunately, Kutina is known for Petrochemia, which has been polluting since '68. Sir, '80s. It's been expanded. It is recently known for its affair with the mayor and president of the City Council and the municipal company on the employment and purchase of city councilors, and will now obviously be known for its largest combustion plant in the Republic of Croatia, which will produce more ash 5 times than Kutina produces municipal waste annually. The project is worth 205,000 tonnes, can be compared to Copenhagen, which is almost double that investment means in Copenhagen was 630m euros, and a sports facility has been built, and half of that amount will be used to protect air and the environment. The project in Kutina is worth 120m euros and is just enough to use half of it for protection, because the filter for purification in Copenhagen and Croatia certainly costs about the same. And I doubt the use of those filters because we know how it goes with us, and your inspection's coming in seven days, so get it fixed. I'm afraid that's how it's gonna be. The study said that the Kutinic contaminants increased by 2 to 3%. 2 to 3% in the Box, it's like 1,000% in Novska. It's a terrible value to try to cheat with this small percentage of the Kutinjčana that it's something good. Kutina has Petrochemy, has a phosphogyps dump, a 30-year by-product of phosphoric acid production is deposited at the site. You know what's going on over there now? It was separated during privatisation from Petrochemia because billions cost a recovery, is now sold for 1 kuna, and saturable mud is built into it. These are the photos I personally took, I wonder who allowed it, whether it was a recovery of a phosphogypse dump with a saturative mud of unknown composition. Kutina also has a municipal waste dump, and Kutina has a highway next to it. Did Kutina become a dump? Are the Kutinjans worth nothing? Are we going to poison them until they're unconscious? Sisak also, planning the burner, spent, so at the time of the annual, public debate, same as Kutina and that online, Popovaca has a compost in which suspicious material is composted, which is not only biomaterial, it is also a municipal waste. There's also a Trade Mountain where nuclear waste will be prepared. So is Sisak-Moslavina County a dump? One of the greenest counties, one of the counties most affected by the war, which suffered from the earthquake this year, last year, a county that had a mayor who burned the budget that didn't have one kuna today and his successor doesn't know how he'll pay his salary tomorrow. Along with all these earthquakes, the Sisak-Moslavina County also conducts geophysical research by Vermilion, which works up to 10km deep. We've had an earthquake today. So I ask which fools allow it? And I ask our mayor, does he have any children, do his associates have children and have any relatives and is he happy to poison them all with this burner? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u58266	The next statement of view is on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u58267	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. In 1860, the first railway was built in Croatian spaces. From Kotoriba to Chakovec, or Macinac. The railway from Čakovec via Varazdin, Konjščina, Zaboka and Zaprešić, to Zagreb, was put on the market in 1886. Both directions contributed significantly to the industrialization and development of this region and its integration with the rest of Croatia. Unfortunately, there have been fewer railway lines from the north of Croatia towards Zagreb in recent decades, and due to years of non-investment, the train on this section has been driving slowly and with regular delays. The number of passengers in rail transport is the largest in the northwestern part of Croatia, which is one of the arguments that investment in the railway network in this area certainly makes sense. An initiative for reconstruction, modernisation and electrification of the Kotoriba-Cakovec-Varaždin-Novi Marof-Zabok-Zagreb railway has therefore been launched. The initial letter was prepared and directed to the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure 7.6 this year and to the Assembly of Međimurje County of counterpart Zeljko Pavlic, president of the Međimurje Democratic Union and council member in the Međimurje County Assembly on our common list. At its second session held on 8 July this year, the Međimurje County Assembly unanimously adopted a conclusion proposing to the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure to include the project and provide funds for the reconstruction, modernisation and electrification of the entire section of Kotoriba-Cakovec-Varaždin-Novi Marof-Zabok-Zagreb railway. The Varazdin County Assembly also unanimously adopted the initiative at its 2nd session of September 22nd. The initiative has so far been supported by Mayor Čakovca, the mayor of Varazdin and the mayor of Krapina-Zagorje County, and talks are being prepared with other regional and local self-government leaders. As a parliamentary representative included in this initiative, I would like today and a written parliamentary question from the minister of the sea, transport and infrastructure to Mr Oleg Butković, we will also ask for a meeting with the minister and support from all parliamentary representatives from the 3rd constituency, with some I have already talked to and their support is unquestionable. The main reason for the launch of this initiative is the transport isolation of the railway Međimurje, Varazdinska and Krapina-Zagorska County from the City of Zagreb, and thus from the rest of Croatia. Namely, the trip by train from Kotoriba to Zagreb is about 145 km takes 3 hours and 39 minutes. The journey from Varazdin to Zagreb in the length of 90 km is spent 2 hours and 23 minutes at a speed that does not cross 30 km/h on certain parts of the railway. In the world, such distances flow in minutes, and we continue to measure them in hours as in the 19th century. In this way, residents of Međimurje County, Varazdinska and Krapina-Zagorje County who together number more than 412,000 inhabitants are traffic-insulated from Zagreb, i.e. largely deprived of the fast and quality connection with the City of Zagreb and with all services provided by institutions in Zagreb, so medical, educational, economic, cultural, sports. Modernising this railway would open up many development opportunities for both the population and the economy of this part of Croatia. Since large investments in Croatian railways, new construction and reconstructions and reconstructions have been announced in the coming years, we ask the rest ministry to plan investments in reconstruction, modernisation and electrification of the railway from Kotoriba to Čakovec, Varazdin, Novi Marof, Zabok and Zagreb to the oldest part of the railway network in Croatia that deserves its revitalisation. We are not opposed to other planned traffic routes from the fast road, construction of new rail crossings, but these projects will last for years, and citizens of this region cannot wait that long. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59555	Good morning. Dear MPs, honourable MPs, continue our work according to the announced agenda. - Proposal for a multi-annual programme of cadastral measurements of construction areas for the period 2021-2030. The Proposer shall be the Government under Article. 8. The Law on State Measurement and the Catastrophe of Real estate, and the discussion was conducted by the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction. I would like to ask the proposal's representative to give an additional explanation of the proposal for a multi-annual programme. With us is Secretary of State Zeljko Uhlir. Here you go. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, who answered? Dear colleague Vukovac is in violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59556	It's a warm greeting. So, Your Honor, I think he's hurt. 174. The Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia which states that, in addition to the proposal for a law, the Proposer shall provide a statement on the assessment of the effects of the regulations in accordance with the specific regulation, and Article 2 of the Rules of Procedure. 214. says the process of adopting other acts regardless of whether they are adopted under the procedure for the draft law or the final draft law is always initiated by the draft act. In this case, the officer shall be in breach. 174, because we lack a statement on the assessment of the fiscal impact of this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59557	Now I'm gonna check it out, you're a little surprised by this. I have not been warned of any breach of the Rules of Procedure, nor do I feel that what you have said is related to the proposal for this item on the agenda, so I will refuse your request for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and if you feel that I am wrong to refer to the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59558	Thank you. She would then ask for a break on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club for at least ten minutes to consult even then how we will discuss this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59559	All right, well, I'll give you a break and we'll pick it up at 9.45. Here comes my colleague Bacic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59560	Thank you, Mr. President. And the HDZ Representatives' Club is looking for a break so that we too can consult on this remark that was made by colleague Vukovac. Namely, this is a programme, a multi-annual programme stemming from the Law on Geodetic Measurement and which HS is obliged to adopt in accordance with the deadlines prescribed by law on the ground that this law has no financial effect or that this law does not provide for the necessary resources to be provided from the national budget of the Eu Funds and other sources. In this regard, it was found here that this 10-year plan, the programme of state measures for the restoration of real estate and land books, would amount to around 3 billion and 25 million kuna, and is foreseen by each of the items of the sub-programme itself that these funds will be provided precisely in a certain amount. Therefore, an analysis was made of how much the item of this programme would be and how much funding should be provided in the state budget, and how much from eu funds and other sources. Other sources will also be discussed on the basis of the annual programme brought by the Government of the Republic of Croatia after HS adopts this multi-annual programme of restoration of the Katastre and Land Book. In my view, therefore, this act contains what needs to be contained and... for discussion in HS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59561	Comrade Stromar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59562	Your Honor, Mr. President. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the HNS, HSU and independent representatives, and it's one program that weighs more than 3 billion kuna, and I think we need to do a good analysis of all of this, especially because it's a quality program. There are a lot of things in the program that can change our economy for the better, the program says that it will work for the next ten years a complete cadastral measurement and that is the desire and goal of both the HNS and HSU and our club so that you allow us to grant a break for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59563	Yes, the break will be approved. My colleague, Dark Taritash, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59564	Thank you very much, esteemed president of HS. I'd like a ten-minute break on behalf of the Centre and Glass Club. It's about a problem that's really causing a lot of attention, and it's about getting a lot of attention. What any investment in the Republic of Croatia and anyone wants to invest regardless of whether it's a private investment, whether it's an economic investment, whether it's some kind of investment outside or our domestic investment is always two problems. One problem is the unsettled cadastre and grantovnica, and another problem is certain issues of the judiciary and the way it is. The catastra and the theme of catastra and grantovnica should cause and cause our attention. I would be hypocritical if I were to say that this is not the kind of program that needs to be done, and I will not be hypocritical for the simple reason that on several occasions I said that if we want to make a move, we need to do a first and a basic analysis or a cadastral measurement and fix a garnery for construction areas in the Republic. So, at this point we don't have it fixed, we have a problem and it's without fixing the construction areas it's kind of a first shift. And now the decimal is coming, but experience has taught us that we have already had certain programs that we have, we have spent the World Bank's funds, or the World Bank's large funds, and we have not received the result that we need to profit from. It seems to me that much, much greater determination should be made from this and that, in parallel with the recording done by the State Geodetic Administration, or Catastrians, it should be taken care of immediately and the grantine should be a joint project and we should insist on it. Without it, some other assembly of the Assembly will in some other time discuss one of these again. Let's let's not discuss the same thing all the time. Let's do something.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59565	Thank you. And the break will be granted to you, of course. And colleague Vukilovic is also looking for a break. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59566	Thank you, well-respected president of HS, for asking for a break on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns Club for 10 minutes. As my colleagues have said before, it is an extremely important issue ahead of us, and I think, I agree that the financial aspect is in detail in this proposal, which is shown on the table, the funds are mostly from EU funds, slightly less from the state budget. What's important in this document is our investment potential. So there are a number of investments, which at the level of local communities, domestic, foreign investors who are stuck just because of this problem, which are unsolved land books where there is, to reconcile something even if it's an investment where the owners are, e.g. the city and county, very difficult, especially if it is not the same party in power in the city and county. Therefore, it should be borne in mind that the document ahead should be seen as the basis for the further building of the investment potential of the Republic of Croatia and, of course, I must stress that we must also take account of the agricultural land depleted to that extent that we have the largest number of OPGs that have relatively small holdings and that is one step that is also expected to raise the productivity of our farmers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59567	The apartment will be approved. A colleague of Ahmetovic has now reported, too, a violation of the Rules of Procedure, please. ... Yeah, then I was misinformed, before you heard from my colleague Ursha Raukar. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59568	Your Honor, I'm also looking for a break on behalf of the Green-Left bloc. Of course, we all clearly need to sort out both catasters and land books because, the first assumption of any project or investment is just a regulated state of catasters and land books, em, property-legal relations which are a fundamental obstacle to the implementation of projects and the realisation of investments. What we would like to discuss further is precisely the funding foreseen under the Programme from EU funds, from the state budget, and from what is listed here, other sources that are not clear and can only endanger the implementation of this Programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59569	Stanka will also be approved by counterpart Ahmetovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59570	Thanks to the President-in-Office of the HS, I request a 10-minute break on behalf of the SDP Club to further consult on the content of this Programme, and all in view of the irrefutable facts, that the Programme is very valuable and necessary for achieving the objectives set out in the Programme itself, however, in terms of the usefulness of the Programme itself and the activities implemented for users, end-users or citizens of the Republic of Croatia who ultimately finance the implementation of this Programme, both from the state budget and from other budgets which intend to burden themselves with it, I believe that the Programme, i.e. we believe that the Programme is relatively unambiguous and unobstrucuously listed from which sources of certain activities under the Programme will be financed. In addition, in addition, in addition to the financial aspect, this part of the information relating to the completion of the Programme’s activities is not sufficiently objectively and unworthy. In many units of local self-government, this Programme has been implemented for many years, for example, in the area of the Municipality of Omisalj this Programme has been implemented for 13, 13 years. Of course, for private particles and what is in the direct benefit of citizens, residents of the municipality of Omisalj such procedures are actually carried out for 13 years, while for projects that are essential only for the Republic of Croatia these procedures are also conducted by emergency procedure. We are here for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and for this reason it is necessary in this Programme to pay first and foremost attention to the objectivity and usefulness of this Programme to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and everything else then in their service.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59571	Okay. The apartment is approved to you, too, so we're going to take a break now, so we're going to start at exactly 10 o'clock. [[It's 9:00.45.]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 10.01 HOURS]] Dear colleagues and colleagues continue to work, so I would now pray again on behalf of the motionary of the respected Secretary of State, Željko Uhlir, to address you, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59573	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. The State Geodetic Administration, as is known, shall carry out cadastral measurements which are the basis for the restoration of land books performed by the Ministry of Justice and Administration and the competent municipal courts, all for the purpose of improving the land administration system. The Republic of Croatia has since its independence faced a major challenge of updating and synchronising the data of the Catastra and the Land Book. For a large number of properties, existing information in the cataster and land books differs and often does not correspond to the real state. The basic reason is that the historical heritage of the past social order of socialism when changes in real estate were recorded mostly in the cataster because of its tax character or did not take place at all, but also because of the lack of concern of the owner of the property in relation to their obligation to report changes in real estate and to record these changes in the cataster and land book. The problems of cataster and land-book discrepancies, i.e. data which largely do not reflect the real situation on the ground, cause difficulties in achieving property rights in real estate, and prevents and slows down the legal traffic of real estate and obstacles in the legal security of real estate and economic development as a whole. Lack of up-to-date real estate records also presents a major problem for planning and spatial development, planning and implementation of infrastructure projects, and for agriculture and environmental protection, implementation of strategic investments, EU financial and fund projects, award of concessions and other projects and implementation of local, regional and state-owned procedures. The State Measurement Act and the Real Estate Cataster prescribed that the State Geodetic Administration is responsible for real estate business and that real estate catastra operations are carried out on the basis of multiannual and annual programmes. The State Geodetic Administration carried out activities on systematic renewal of records through annual state measurement programmes and catastra real estate, covering more than 450,000 hectares, and in the last 4 g. to receive interest statements from 350 JLS for the launch of new cadastrian measurements, and all since the catastrian and land-book conditions for the launch of any development projects in those environments have been arranged. The expressed interest crosses the planned programming and budgetary plans and calls for the increased involvement of the state through the provision of financial resources through the proposed multi-annual programme of cadastral measurements of construction areas for the period from 2021 to 2030 whose adoption is in line with the Government of the Republic of Croatia's programme. The proposed multi-annual programme sets out areas in which the cadastrian measurement, business and tasks of the real estate catastra will be carried out, as well as the restoration of land books, the manner and time limits of their execution, holders and participants, the means of financing them, and other issues relevant for the implementation of the programme. The main objective of the programme is to establish a cadastrian operator, a real estate catastra and a reconstruction of land books based on cadastrian measurements for 600,000 hectares of land and real estate in construction areas in the Republic of Croatia, and since more than 80% of all economic activities are carried out on them according to assessment. The implementation of the programme will be achieved through the implementation of 4 sub-programmes representing rounded and organisational and financial units, and this sub-programme under (a) the restoration of land book catalogues for construction areas in the Republic of Croatia, sub-programme b) the completion of the start-up procedures for the restoration of cadasters and land books, sub-programme c) the coordination of areas and borders of catastrian municipalities and sub-programme d) ensuring the functioning of integrated information systems in the function of space management policy of the Republic. The programme will be implemented through annual programmes relating to real estate catastra activities and which brings the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the proposal of the State Geodetic Administration with the previous consent of the Ministry of Justice. The activities of the programme will be implemented 10 years. in the period from 2021 to 2030, The institution of this programme is the State Geodetic Authority, and the participants are the units of local and regional self-government in which the work of the programme is carried out. A high degree of cooperation and coordination of all activities and actors and participants in implementation will be necessary for the successful implementation of the programme within the deadlines set by the programme, and effective cooperation will be established by the national authorities, ministries and agencies directly concerned. To this end, for the implementation of this programme, the Chief Director of the State Geodetic Administration, the Minister responsible for Justice Affairs, will agree to establish a joint commission to direct and monitor the implementation of the programme, and the use of financial resources. The implementation of this programme will achieve a whole range of positive impacts, to strengthen the competitiveness of the economy, to improve the business environment, to grow private and state investments and to invest at local and regional level, to the entrepreneurship climate, to improve governance and availability of state assets, to spatial and urban planning, to regulate settlements and housing, to public activities, to the satisfaction of the users of state registers, to improve public administration and to improve the efficiency of the judicial system. Funds necessary for the implementation of this programme for the period from 2021 to 2030. It's worth 3 billion 25 million kunas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59574	I thank my esteemed colleague, Uhlir, only please return to the Secretary of State because we will go with the replicas, and there are 12 of them. First up, buddy Kirin, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59575	The Honorable President, the Honorable Secretary, the Honorable Director of the Geodesy Administration, which is a cadastre, a garter and a land database we know about. The modern and efficient land administration system contributes to increasing legal certainty in real estate management, encourages and accelerates investment processes and improves the functioning of real estate markets. Do you have information and information as much as possible, regardless of the spatial plans adopted in the launch of economic activity and the construction of civil society associations and activists who are against, of course with reasons for environmental damage, tradition and damage to space, for example, as was the case in the case, no matter how often such procedures enlarge the space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59576	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59577	Thank you very much. There are no statistics, no such data is monitored as individual associations of citizens are opposed in some locations to some of the project's realisations.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59578	Comrade Nemet, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59579	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, my question will refer to the implementation of the programme and, in Sub-programme B, to the completion of the start-up procedures for the restoration of the Catastres and the Land Book. I wonder if you have any information as to how long it takes on average to rebuild the catasters and land books since we have knowledge from the field that some of the renovations have started here in Istria in 2014, and to this day they are not finished. Do you have tools to speed up this kind of reconstruction and is the formation of a commission by you one way to speed it up? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59580	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59581	Thank you very much. So there are different data in different areas, in different areas, individual procedures are taking place that depend on current legal solutions. And so what was done is an analysis of all these procedures is that it lasted 80 months. So that's some kind of average that could happen, there's shorter ones, there's faster ones. However, it should be pointed out that the programme is followed by amendments to the 2 laws, which will significantly, significantly shorten procedures or speed up procedures.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59582	Comrade Dark Taritash, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59583	Thank you very much. I have a question about a program that we already have. In 2003 it started with a common information system of land books and catastras, after several years of development and testing phases in 2016 it was implemented in all 112 catastrian and 108 land-book offices. And thanks to this programme, which was funded and financed by the World Bank loan, it was also a joint programme of the State Geodesy Administration and the Ministry of Justice. The idea was that catastre and land books should be mutually interlinked, these systems would be interlinked and data exchanges would be partially resolved. What I'm curious about is where we are with this program, how much money has been spent so far, and it's about the World Bank's big loans, and what about this program next? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59584	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59585	Thank you very much. So, the programme is realised as is generally known, the programme not only implements the Government of the Republic of Croatia but is under World Bank monitoring and it has obtained those results for which they were planned. The details of the financial reports may be provided subsequently.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59586	It's going to be replicated by my colleague, Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59587	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Secretary of State, the programme states that changes over the next 10 years will take place in the 350 units of local self-government that have shown interest. It is also known that we have 555 local self-governments, meaning that some 205 have either shown no interest or have done nothing in that sense to restore their cadastrian books. Now the question is what with those 205, is whether they will stay completely out of these options, whether this will only apply to these 350 and whether there is a way that they can also be included in that period for 10 years, that they also renovate their cadastrian books. new measurements of the device, given that there are certain means?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59588	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59589	Thank you very much. So the opening speech also said that a certain job had already been done. So some catastrian municipalities are done. As far as this 350 unit data is concerned, it is, of course, their good initiative so far. Doesn't mean the program will be closed, but these have already shown interest they're proactive so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59590	Comrade Klaric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59591	Dear Secretary of State, I welcome this multi-annual programme, and I think it's about time to move more actively into this, secure resources and everything. I'd just point out one problem here that should be taken care of, and that's a 3D cadastre. Today’s technology enables the construction of buildings above unclassified roads, roads, we have such situations and in the past, for example, an example of the RI shopping house in Rijeka which was built above the road is practically not written down and has no cadastrian number on the section that goes above the road. Technology today enables and here is a suggestion to take into account in the future and to prescribe a regulation so that investors can get a useful permit, construction and everything that follows, enter their facility, business hall or whatever it is. We have such examples in practice, and we don't have 3D cadastres.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59592	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59593	Thank you very much for the suggestion, so the State Geodetic Administration is constantly working on the development of the system and that part will also be operational when it is ready.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59594	Comrade Stromar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59595	Thank you, Mr. President. The Honorable Secretary of State, respected director of DGU on the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, has opened one topic, which is a topic that has been known to everyone so far in the implementation of this programme and so far's programmes, which is a lack of technical and human capacities. And that's why we've often and as colleagues have spoken for a long time waiting for some solutions so I'm curious I think we're all optimistic by this program, but will there be enough human and technical capacity to do this job?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59596	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59597	Thank you very much. So what I've already said now in this short fit exactly this program follows and changes to two basic laws that will introduce a different decision-making procedure, after these measurements carried out and in importance and even four to five times shorten the whole process.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59598	Comrade Barbaric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59599	I thank the esteemed president of HS. Your Honor, Secretary of State. In light of this programme, it is mentioned on several occasions and you mentioned the state's responsibility in the presentation, the negative remains of the Socialist past are mentioned. In order to fully understand the need and necessity of such a programme, I think it is necessary to further explain what our situation is now with cadastrian and land... how much is this a limiting factor of overall development? And the second question is, when in the benefits the realization of this programme mentions an effective judiciary, a more effective judiciary, exactly what is meant by it? Are you referring to the number of cases that won't come to the courts to edit this file or anything else? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59600	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59601	Thank you very much. Therefore, it is certainly a known problem that has been going on for years that the unsettled land-book situation is an obstacle not only to domestic and foreign investors, but also to the realisation of capital state projects. Thus, such an unsettled situation is a major hindrance to project implementation, to the rapid development of certain areas, and it is inevitable that as soon as possible it must be arranged or accessed in a slightly different way. This is precisely achieved by amending two basic laws that will follow after the adoption of this programme. What still needs to be pointed out, and what is from your replica, that is, the question is that the problem is human capacity, the problem is the current principles and procedures of work on the catastrian changes that follow behind this job, and now the changes of these fundamental two laws will change and the procedures that will significantly speed up the process itself four to five times.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59602	Comrade Ahmetovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59603	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Secretary of State. As regards the financing of the programme, you define that the funds necessary for its implementation from the state budget will be only 5% and you state these assets as those to be used only since 2021-2023. All remaining funds of 3 billion and 25 million kuna are projected to be used in all nine years covered by the programme. I see in sub-programme B1 for completing the process of rebuilding the cadastres and land books you do not intend to invest state resources. Since these are the procedures, regular procedures and the State Geodesy and the Ministry of Justice, I am interested in what other sources, in particular, I stress other sources, you intend to pay fees, travel expenses, etc. The employees of the State Geodetic Administration and the Department of Justice whose regular job is that?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59604	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59605	Thank you very much. Therefore, for the whole programme, a detailed analysis of both the capacity and the necessary resources and what is written in the programme will be done below. Therefore, some sources have been hinted and are expected to be further realised, but at this point they are not yet confirmed.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59606	Comrade Raukar Gamulin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59607	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, Secretary of State. So this program measures the catastrian changes are related to building land. We all know... that this same problem is huge and with agricultural land, so for the sake of the Croatian public, I would ask you to answer why this is not covered, so agricultural land and when and when will the programmes be covered and, of course, given the great economic importance of planning and agricultural land? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59608	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59609	Thank you very much. So in every programme, in every law, every investment project is a fundamental issue of funding. For this reason, it has also been established and analysed here based on these analyses, which say that more than 80% of all economic activities take place in the construction area, on building land, so it is logical that 3 billion kunas will be spent in 10 years where the heavy economic activity is taking place, which is building land. Everything else, so the numerous land we own, located in the Republic of Croatia, follows in the follow-up when the priorities are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59610	Comrade Bačić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59611	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, Secretary of State. HS adopted the Law on Islands, one of the important programmes in the Law on Islands was the state programme of measurement, state measurements, the production of a property catastra and the restoration of a land book on Croatian islands, which is considered a state programme one of the priorities under the care of the Republic of Croatia. In this respect, since after the adoption of this multiannual financial plan, the annual plan adopted by the Government on the proposal of the State Geodetic Administration will also go to the government, and I suggest that it be respected in this respect and taken into account the Law on Islands, so that there are certainly island municipalities in these priorities, given that the situation of the cataster and land books on Croatian islands is probably among the worst of all areas of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59612	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59613	Thank you very much. Of course, the competent geodetic administration, or the State Geodetic Authority, will take care of the priorities and respect for legal provisions.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59614	My colleague Vukovac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59615	Thank you, my dear. When we talk about state agricultural land, it has municipalities and cities in place under the 2018 law that provides that municipalities and cities must primarily develop a programme of agricultural land availability. However, many mayors or mayors have not produced such programs by claiming that their data is not available, that DGU simply has unscheduled data, missing data, poor databases, etc. What is your information and knowledge of this problem? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59616	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59617	It's very difficult to talk about individual cases. So it could be difficult to say that this is a general rule, but in any case, the State Geodetic Authority is a measuring body that will give everything that is available and according to its priorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59618	And the last replica, Comrade Begonja, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59619	... funds for the implementation of this Programme are estimated at more than 3 billion kuna, of which EU funding will also be provided for the state budget. [[Specially enabled.]] I wonder how the state can expect the funds from the state budget to be recovered by the implementation of this Programme? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59620	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59621	Returning funds is done in several ways. So depending on how the conditions are set for any withdrawal. So, if there are different sources of funds, they will have both regulated and returned. At this point, the question is, what's the first question? First set up the Program, then withdraw funds based on it. First, we need to bring in the Programme so that we can withdraw funds from different sources and therefore adjust the return.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59622	I thank the Secretary of State. You can go back to your seat. We'll keep working. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. Comrade Štromar, chairman of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59623	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction of HS at the 8th session held on 15 September '21. Member of the Commission 93 Rules of Procedure of HS. The members of the Committee agree that the Programme is very ambitious and should be supported in view of all the positive effects resulting from the implementation of the programme. In addition to some remarks and warnings, the Committee decided unanimously after the debate was held, 9 votes to propose to HS the adoption of a multi-annual programme of cadastral measurements of construction areas for the period '21-30. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59624	Thank you, too. I'm opening a debate. The first in line is respected colleagues Vesna Vucilović on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereignists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59625	Thank you very much, esteemed president of HS, a respected secretary of state with an associate, co-workers and fellow MPs. The first thing to think about is when land administration, grantines and cadastres are mentioned, we usually take our heads because in Croatia, unfortunately, they are synonyms for disorder and problems. It's been like that for years. We can find dozens of investors who gave up investment because our land books aren't taken care of. There's been a lot of attempts to solve this issue so far, unfortunately there's still a shift, but not enough. In general, the impression of land administration is poor, characterised by an extremely large number of cadastrian particles, say some 16 million and the problem of accuracy, i.e. a match of the situation on the ground and land books. There is no investment that is at some point not slowed down or stopped due to unresolved property-law issues related to the land. Even when it comes to land owned by units of local self-government or state. If the same party is not in power in the city or county, the problem is further deepening. The issue of rebuilding, as the authorities tell us, is stuck just because of unresolved property-legal relations. We also had the legalization process a few years ago, but there's still a whole series of illegal objects on the ground. Of course, the next question is what a construction inspection does on this matter. Then, land owned by a state that has not entered privatisation, and is used mostly by tourism companies for campsites and resorts. Unsolved issues and problems are at stake, and these are all segments that increase legal uncertainty and create a bad investment climate that makes investors bypass us. Under the conditions of the non-compliant state of data between cadastres, land books and the real situation on the ground, the launch and completion of any project is sometimes impossible or the realization is significantly slower and more expensive. The responsibility for the state of the register and the process for updating the same real estate is on the side of the state, while citizens and legal persons, investors and real estate owners, public bodies using real estate data from official records, expect a guarantee for registrations and legal certainty, as well as a quick service and complete coverage of up-to-date data. Unfortunately, that's not exactly the case right now. In order to achieve its purpose, it must be maintained in accordance with the situation in nature, i.e. on the ground, which is achieved by regular maintenance of changes. If this is not maintained, there is a discrepancy between the recorded state and the situation on the ground and it is necessary to restore the data that can be carried out through audits, reambulations, co-commastions, and in extreme cases, and re-catastrian measurements. Experts say the average duration of data recorded in the cadastar is about 50 years, which means that the same documentation is used relatively long periods. The document ahead of us is the Multi-annual Programme of Catastrian Measurements of Construction Areas, I stress construction because even in agricultural areas it is not a much better situation because what we have in agricultural land is the depravity of the property and, accordingly, low productivity. I must stress that certain funds are provided for in the NPOO for the commission. I hope that too will be done because our farmers expect it. The main objective of this programme is to restore the cadastra and land books based on the implemented cadastrian measurements for real estate in the construction area. And today, when you witness construction at every step, a very important role is precisely spatial planning, given that there is less and less free space in urban building areas. In addition to various facilities such as residential and economic buildings, residential houses, halls, stadiums and halls are of course various municipal waters, facilities from water and sewage networks, and various light lines from different companies of crucial importance, of course, and all these objects are displayed precisely enough to take advantage of the free space in the best way, without harming or injure property rights. I point out precisely because today we have a number of techniques and today's disaster in the Republic lags behind them, so it lags behind these modern 3D motifs where we are actually catching up with the improvement of the quality and speed of the two-dimensional data. On the other hand, we have different possibilities for modern geodetic technologies, software solutions that provide a great opportunity for methods that will raise and raise data quality. Of course, there we can also rely on the growing industry of drone aircraft systems which in each day can increasingly produce accurate and inclusive input products for the reconstruction of 2D and the construction of 3D buildings. Of course it is not, I am not saying this without reason because space management and everything that is related to it is also extremely important in the context of the green transition and the green plan that strongly promotes the EU and the European Commission. Namely, three-dimensional structures and plans provide insights and opportunities for analysis of shadows, solar radiation and visibility, which can find great application precisely in the implementation of solar panels that are very much talked about when we also talk about the energy empowerment of our citizens or energy independence that we obviously need in the future. All of this tells us how important it is to have organized land books and catastres and should be pointed out that all of these activities that are foreseen by the plan and the programme that is ahead are of paramount importance for economic growth and development in many segments, I have looked at only a few in this exhibition. As already stated and said, significant funds amounting to more than 3 billion kuna are provided, mostly from EU funds. So in the end, I will just say that Croatian sovereigns support this document with genuine hope that when mentioning land books, investors will not be caught by the head and there will be no more first association of riots and general chaos.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59626	We're going to the 2nd debate on behalf of the Center and Voice Representatives Club, dear colleague Mrak-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59627	Thank you, well-respected President HS, Secretary of State, Director of State Geodesy, colleagues and colleagues. We are in line with the provisions of the State Measurement Act and the Real Estate Catastar programme for the period from 2021 to 2030, so something is needed. Croatia has a certain tradition, we have the current state and we need to know what we want in the future. I am sure that regardless of what side of this assembly we are sitting on and how politically spoken we want to have an orderly state, we want to have an orderly and arranged cadastre and grantovnica where someone when buying an apartment can immediately get information, someone who wants to build his house doesn't have to wander from unloved to unloved, from catastran to grantovnica, so back, someone who wants to develop investment in the Republic has clear data and clear facts, and that's something we want and something that needs to be the goal and goal that we need to pursue. Now we're coming to reality. We in reality have an existing system with a cadastre and a garnery. Otherwise, there is a tradition of some other EU countries that we can look up to or see there is no catastra and grantovnica, but with us it is a historical heritage, an inheritance for the simple reason that the cadastre in that former system was the one that was in a certain way, you watched what was in the cadastre, you watched there that you were enrolled and the grantines were neglected for years and that is the fact. And now that you want to do it, you need some time and energy. I'd be hypocritical if I said in any way that this program shouldn't and this shouldn't be done, right? I've spoken from this phone booth several times and told my people if we have a problem with cadastral measurements, and we can do this for construction areas, and at least in construction areas we'll have a situation, and let's do this our own way and how we should have it. Because when you get to the real situation, then you get to the numbers that startle you. What I want to point out is the existing system, which is the cadastre records real estate, describes them with its technical characteristics and individually determines. And the law defines that so the catastre is a record of particles, land surfaces, buildings and cadastres run the area office of the State Geodesy Administration, as I was saying, there are 112 of them at this point. E, but the legal status of real estate and legal traffic are conducted by land books and they are carried out in land books courts, in grantines and in them we have 106, 108. So, you have the following situation today, you want to get into some investment, you have a catastrian particle formed, and make sure that the catastro is okay. But this information from the catastra is just information about the appearance of a particle and which it is used for, the real property of a particle is in the garter, and just when you finish your procedure in the catastro, then you continue your procedure in the garnery. Even this multi-year programme of catastrian measurements for construction areas will not be innate to what we want if it is not finally a unique process and is uniquely done. This is where the cadastre will re-record the situation, but the property will not be resolved. So far, we've had a few cases, or we've had a few ideas. One of the ideas was the common information system of catastra and grantovnica. It started in 2003, 2016 was implemented and it works for where everything is fine. Where the catastrian state and the particle size corresponds to the grant state, where all the data corresponds to everything and everything is fine. There's no one who hasn't met the problem, whether he's faced a problem with his real estate or he's faced a problem with an investment or an investor or a story. The problem has a state, the state hasn't recorded all its properties, the state hasn't recorded its road. So there goes the Road Law that tried to do it. And now we come up with data that is devastating. The data I'm working with, I'm working with the data that I actually took from the National Geodetic Administration portal. I haven't used any data on the media. And now I get to the next one and I get to that one, let's talk about the real situation. So, on the State Geodetic Administration's data you have one that we have 3407 catastrian municipalities, when you open DGU, then when you have one publication from 2020 that says that we have 3397 catastrian municipalities, so I'm talking about cadastrian municipalities, and then there's one fact that, through catastrian changes and technical additions that last on average 2 to 3 years have completed work on 173 of the total 3351 catastrian municipalities. Tell me, I'd love to, and I'll ask for it as a parliamentary representative, how many catastrian municipalities do we really have in the Republic of Croatia? How will you handle all, if the state geodetic management that the team manages has 3 different data on its pages, I did it yesterday when I was preparing for this debate to get out because I was interested, I'm talking about 3300 catastrian municipalities all the time. We have said from this pay phone that we are going according to the applicable regulations and according to everything in order to take care of Croatia, to take care of the cadastre and the grantovnica for 100 years, so I don't know 118 years, so how did someone calculate it? So if we don't change the laws, if we don't give management tools to all the teams together, and this multi-annual program will be good, we'll say it's okay, but it won't bear fruit. What do we want? We want to make for the construction area that in the Republic of Croatia has 505 million 659 400 hectares or 8.73% of the territory. Of these building areas, according to estimates, which are yet to be recorded, approximately 68% were built and 32% were not built. So we're talking about fixing up at this point 8.73% of the construction area of the Republic of Croatia, or the promoter said 600 wrongly I said not 5 million but 569, 565,000 hectares speaks of 600,000 hectares. So the proposer is talking about 600,000 hectares, the data we have from the state report in the space is talking about 565, 556.000 hectares, so these are small differences must take something more. This is a total of 8.73% of the territory of the Republic of Croatia. So, we're talking about this multi-annual program that we're going to be setting up for this area. So what I'm saying is, I'm talking about taking care of this is a multi-annual catastrian measurement program, but if we do in 10 years of these cadastrian measurements, we're going to have nice cadastral measurements because at this point as we're all discussing technology, it's gone so far that all those satellites that are, all those possible devices that are actually doing the measurement, and they know how many of us are in this, in this assembly. So the technology went forward, and we talk all the time, so we're all the time from this pay phone pointing to the problem of the catastrophe and the granite. The cadastre goes into certain measures and we don't do the job until the end. We don't do business till the end. If we even make measurements, and we don't spend it all together in the garter shop, we've been painting for nothing because the job won't be done again until the end. For the job to be done until the end, it is necessary to make an amendment to the law, not to have a commission, but to have the right people have the tools to implement it, and it will be, then resulting in some success, and we need to be aware of it. So we've already done some measurements, you who are the head of individual municipalities and cities, you know exactly how financed it is, how much it's done. But then we get into trouble to do it in the garter room. Otherwise, I have very little left in the individual debate, on 20 September 2018 the Government decided that for a common information system that was one of the projects that wanted to be resolved, we took 19.7m euros in credit for the next 10 years I didn't collect any other data, but I hope the others... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59628	Thank you very much. We're going to a second debate, dear colleague Anja Shimprag on behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59629	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, head of director, respected colleagues and colleagues. In property and land law, the presumption that the land book truly and fully reflects the factual and legal state of the property is affected. One who is in good faith dealing with trust in land books without knowing that what is written in them is not entirely or that it is different from out - of - book conditions, enjoys the protection of the provisions of the law. However, one who has not bought or sold real estate in certain parts of the Republic of Croatia does not know what the trouble is. In some parts of Croatia, land books or people's terms, grantines and cadastres are not harmonised, i.e. surfaces do not correspond to the real state of things. The owners are different, some have died, areas are not uniform, real estate descriptions are outdated. A good part of the problem stems from the time of the former state when ownership was dominantly social, when real estate changes were recorded only in the catastrophe. Because of its defeating character or not recorded at all, but also because of the lack of concern of the owner of the property in relation to their obligation to report changes in real estate and to record these changes in the cataster and land books. At that time, the State did not take into account the state of the register and the accuracy and reliability of registrations in state registers, although even then, as it is now competent to establish and keep official records in real estate, it was on the side of the State. It is commendable that in order to change the name, last name, residence of a natural person, as well as the name in the seat of a legal person, registered with the OIB in the land books, it is no longer necessary to come to court, to submit a proposal for registration and to pay a court fee, as that change has been done automatically since the beginning of 2020. However, it is only about changes after the 1st month. In 2020, until then, it remains intact. The second example is that the debates were not conducted in due time, so today as owners, we have registered persons who had passed away long ago, and in case you don't know their successors who are to some extent must have a good will to launch a desert debate, we are, so to all who want to deal with it and get rid of it, our hands are quite tied. It is clear to all of us that the consistency of data in the cataster and the land book is not a prerequisite for the entry into the land book and that, in the case of data differences in the land book and catastros, the data contained in the land book is used, but any legal uncertainty of this species is not good and poses a potential danger. Because of all this, for a long time, we delayed the application of the principle of trust in the land book or the principle of trust in the truth and the principles of trust in completeness. However, this does not mean that today’s situation is great, but only that all of this is what is written in land books. The unregulated situation of the register prevents or slows down the legal traffic of real estate, as well as other transactions, thereby causing additional costs to all the participants in the real estate market. It is an obstacle to legal security in real estate and economic development as a whole. Lack of up-to-date real estate records also poses a major problem for planning, for spatial development, planning and implementation of major infrastructure projects, as well as for agriculture, environmental protection, implementation of strategic investments, as well as projects funded by EU funds. For the purpose of modernising the land administration and creating preconditions for the implementation of extensive activities under this Programme, the State Geodetic Administration and the Ministry of Justice and Administration have already carried out a series of four years, a whole series of improvements over the processes and data from their respective competences, and the main objective of the Programme is to set up a cadastrian real estate and reconstruction operation or the establishment of land books based on the implemented cadastrian property measurements in construction areas in the Republic. It is commendable that the programme in question, which will be dominant in the jurisdiction of the DGU, will act on the one hand in cooperation with the Ministry and municipal courts, and units of local and regional self-government that will act on the other hand. Due to its kind of control of performance, it is good that the deadlines for beginning are clearly and unequivocally stated, as well as the completion of certain activities foreseen in sub-programmes. The amount needed to carry out certain activities is not small and for a 10-year period is more than 3 billion and 25 million kuna, most of which, almost 2 billion and 900 million kuna should be from other sources of financing, i.e. beyond DGU funding. However, the main question that has been raised here and our colleagues is whether we as a state and as units of local and regional self-government are sufficient human, but also technical capacity to carry out this number of demanding activities, especially if we consider all the problems mentioned earlier? However, all results and benefits that should result from the implementation of the activities set out in this Programme should be taken into account, as well as the possibility of financing parts of them from the EU. Up-to-date data should be provided on real estate in construction areas in the Republic of Croatia and on construction areas that are important for the development of cities, municipalities, counties and states and where more than 80% of economic activities are carried out, which are necessary for the smooth traffic of real estate, spatial planning and construction, for nature protection and the environment in general for sustainable development. The distribution of real estate data through network services will allow citizens, but to the public and private sectors, the availability of real-time data, but will also contribute to the development of entrepreneurship and public administrations which will use real estate data and which will be made available digitally. Up-to-date and reliable Catastrian and Country Book Data contributes to the rule of law and are a fundamental assumption of the quality and efficient functioning of the real estate market and the launch of investment and implementation of capital, development and infrastructure projects, thus creating preconditions for effective economic growth and development, and will therefore support the adoption by the SDSS Representatives Club of the said Proposal for a multi-annual programme of cadastral dimensions of construction areas, but with the emphasis that the annual programmes include those of the poorest JLS as soon as possible, because this is also a prerequisite for their development. Dealing with land records is an investment, an investment that has its own price, as well as an investment that will bring us multiple profits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59630	Now she will speak to her esteemed colleague, Ruzica Vukovac, on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59631	Thank you. The esteemed president of the HS, the respected state secretary with a co-worker, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. So, I'm only going to go into a few sentences on the very injury of the Rules of Procedure and explain briefly why I think that the statement on the assessment of the fiscal impact of this proposal should have been an integral part of the documentation that has been delivered to us. Therefore, I am talking about the decision on the procedure of giving a statement on the assessment of the fiscal impact taken by the Government of the Republic of Croatia at a meeting held on 5 November 2015, which reads this, so the first article says, "This decision prescribes the procedure for giving a statement on the assessment of the fiscal impact and the form and content of the standard methodology for assessing the fiscal impact on which the statement of the assessment of the fiscal impact is given." 2. clearly says "The statement on the assessment of the fiscal impact is required to draw up a proposal for a regulation, other regulations and acts of planning so that projects, plans, programmes, strategies, policies, etc. adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and draft draft laws and acts of planning proposed by the Government to adopt HS. Proposers within the meaning of this decision are the central authorities of the state administration, i.e. the ministries, state offices and state administrations and professional services of the Government." However, in this respect, of course, I will also request the interpretation of the relevant SS committee. Therefore, according to the Ministry of Spatial Planning, construction and state property, the area of construction areas in the Republic of Croatia is about 550,000 hectares, which is 9.7% of the total area of the Republic of Croatia, which is estimated to be more than 80% of all economic activities. This speaks for itself about the importance of this proposal for a programme, the construction area within the meaning of this programme is considered as areas defined by a spatial plan under a specific law governing the administrative area of spatial planning. The Republic of Croatia has since its independence faced a major challenge of updating and synchronising the data of the catastra and land book for a large number of real estates, existing information in the cataster and land books differ and often do not correspond to the real state. The main reason is the historical heritage of socialism when real estate changes were recorded only in the cataster because of its tax character or have not been recorded at all, but less so because of the lack of care of the real estate owners themselves compared to their obligation to report changes in real estate and to record these changes in the cataster and land book. At the time of the former system, the State did not take into account the state of the register and the accuracy and reliability of the registrations in state registers, even though it was also at the same time as today's jurisdiction to establish and keep official property records foreign to the State. Such a situation prevents or slows down the legal traffic of real estate as well as other transactions resulting in additional costs to all the participants in the real estate market. The obstacle is to legal security in real estate and economic development as a whole, the lack of up-to-date real estate records is also a major problem for planning and spatial development, for planning and implementing infrastructure projects and for agriculture and environmental protection, for implementing strategic investments, for projects financed from EU funds, for awarding concessions and other projects or for implementing procedures of local, regional and state importance, and we are all aware that the representatives of state bodies and citizens themselves are most often reflected in the current situation. Let us hope that the realisation of the objectives set out in this proposal is to update real estate data in the cataster and the land book to strengthen the competitiveness of the economy, improve the business environment, improve planning, manage space and its protection, increase investment, improve governance and availability of state property, improve public administration and improve the efficiency of the judicial system will indeed contribute to and amend the general administrative process which is aimed at digitising these processes, but also at linking the data available to the public administration bodies. Regardless of what the topic of today's debate is, I consider the programme of cadastrian dimensions of construction areas extremely important to mention the situation with agricultural land, and it is permanently disappearing because the construction area is spreading to the core of agricultural land. Namely, agricultural land is the most valuable resource in the Republic of Croatia, but it is not much spoken of in this proposal, so it is a guarantee of the safety of the survival of the Croatian people through history until today. From Croatian independence, especially since 2001. where, on the basis of the law, agricultural land management is determined at JLS level through a state agricultural land distribution programme, 20 years are made available on the basis of several laws and amendments and additions to the Law on Agricultural Land, although today there are municipalities and cities, or JLS, which have not made the available programme, and therefore, logically, not all legal obligations relating to only State agricultural land are fulfilled. The procedure currently includes the second amendment and addition of the Law on Land of February 2018, the legislator unfortunately does not respect previous criticisms and suggestions through previous electronic consultations although he corresponds to the official answers "accepted to knowledge". In the context of this bill, the strategy of agriculture of the Republic of Croatia in the context of this proposal of the law is, unfortunately, pointless and unimplementable, and the objectives and needs will depend on the qualifications of persons who are the current authority in the municipalities and cities mentioned, and in their professional training. Some 430 JSLs have state agricultural land, so there will be as many different approaches to the size of the lease and sale of state agricultural land by the holding itself. As I mentioned in the reply to the State Secretary, a large number of officials, therefore a large number, are larger than those who have really made their own programmes, argues that their data from the DGU are not available, argues that the data is unscheduled, that certain measurements of agricultural land have not been implemented to the end and that for these reasons they are not able to make their own available programmes, and therefore suffers the system quite. And now it would briefly withdraw the parallel by adopting a proposal which is the subject of today's debate, so in response to the comments proposed by the proposals of this proposal of the catastral measurement programme by the interested public, it is also responsible for the majority of the comments with the "accepted knowledge" flossule. Why do I say floscule? Because it doesn't really mean anything. But is that enough, has the form successfully served? The form has successfully served the legislator to actually avoid concrete answers to the comments delivered. Why do the ministries use such forms more and more often I hope that we will get more concrete answers today than those received by the commentators themselves on e-consultation. But what is definitely to be said today is the fact that we keep running away from the problem, we do not want to accept the current state of affairs in our institutions. This proposal would be acceptable if we had a situation in the catastra or DGU, but the situation we have in the catastro is far from that. Why am I saying that? I'm just going to bring up a few situations that I think are inadmissible, and they're not that rare. So, the geodetics are practically given power to go through a geodetic elaborate that confirms geodetic administrations change things in grant books. The Geodetic Authority shall verify the elaborate in terms of technical design, not content. When interested parties complain about the measurement shown in the draft, the response of the Ministry of Civil Engineering is regular that it is not their jurisdiction or ingenuity because the geodetic administration has verified the elaborate, which is not true because the Ministry of Civil Engineering has to check the content, we are talking about the process of obtaining a building permit and then a court that would most often not want to interfere because it is instructed from all levels to speed up the process of land books. The other thing I have to mention today is the common phenomenon that all roads that are registered in the catastra are registered by local self-government, regardless of their private ownership, so people remain without their land, without getting any solution or compensation, and such things are done on purpose and the geodites are at stake. In a similar way, state land is being usurped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59632	Now let's go to the next debate, Green-Left Block Representative Club, dear colleague Raukar Gamulin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59633	... Honored Secretary of State, Honored Director, Honored colleagues and colleagues. [[Last-on speaker]] First of all, it is necessary to commend, again and again, the efforts and the idea of a multi-year programme of cadastrian measurements and its possible implementation. We are all, to repeat once again, well aware of the great importance of this programme for the future of the Republic of Croatia. The first assumption of any project or investment is, of course, the orderly state of the catasters and land books. And the unsettled property relations are a fundamental obstacle to the implementation of projects and the realisation of investments that we talk about so much and that we are actually so eager to expect. The organized cadastre provides legal certainty, restores citizens' trust in land books, reduces the number of court proceedings and ensures an economic take-off, and that is, of course, necessary for Croatia. So, in principle, we support this programme of cadastrian measurements, but I must say if the procedure was not really respected, there is the possibility and the application to the constitutional court, which will further delay it. delay the time of application and start of the implementation of this programme and it should indeed be checked whether the procedure is fully respected or not. But I'm going to look back at a few more situations that can certainly improve all these remarks that I'm going to make in cooperation with experts, geodetics, and hopefully, in the public interest, they'll be accepted. Therefore, firstly, there is a concern that the deadlines are not realistic, especially for the public exposure procedure under the Rules on exposure to public insight of the catastar measurement elaborates. These procedures can take several years to 5 or even 6 years after the catastrian change. The deadlines in this programme should therefore be revised in relation to this experience in practice. We have heard that some changes to the existing laws will also work for the needs of this programme, and I hope that these changes will also take into account the unrealistic timings now. Then we talked about this, for the implementation of this programme, the necessary funds are 3 billion kuna 25 million. It is said that the funds will be raised from EU funds, from the state budget and from other sources, and these other sources worry us. So, 3 million, 3 billion and 25 million kuna are foreseen to cost this programme, the state budget is only 156 million, so it remains 2 billion 869 million, which are said to be pushed out of European funds, other sources that we believe should have been more concrete and realistic so that the programme can be implemented continuously, not stalled due to a lack of financial resources. For 26 years after the Homeland War, we have been waiting for the construction and work of the real and serious ones to take care of the catastres and land books, and I think that all necessary conditions must be provided in advance, of course, there are main and financial conditions. This programme does not mention urban cohesions that are also sometimes necessary for the rounding of land which is then ready for the realisation of larger projects, of course, implemented within the constitution of guaranteed ownership rights and generally legal certainty. We believe that, in some way, urban cohesions that are somehow in a gap between and outside the law and within the law should be part of this programme, so we hope that even in the amendments to the laws that are announced will be given its place. We also suggest that additional mechanisms be introduced into this programme to ensure a fair and transparent allocation of jobs on the change of catastras and this big deal. To cite only the establishment of a commission to monitor and organise these processes we think is not enough, it is necessary to strengthen control, to prevent the possibility of assigning these enormous jobs to certain or thus to the favourite geodetic firms, to set up jobs because we all know very well that Croatia is a wonder country in this regard. I need to replicate to Mr. Secretary of State on my question why no agricultural land is involved and when and what programme will be covered. His response that the main economic activity is taking place in construction areas I dare say is totally unacceptable. It's as if agriculture has been assessed as one irrelevant economic activity. We hope that this is not the position of the entire ministry and the Croatian government because we all know how important it is and how urgent it is I dare say to invest in the launch of agriculture not only for economic reasons, but for demographic reasons and, of course, the painful eviction, the dramatic eviction of the population from rural areas and going to other countries where they have better conditions. Agriculture is important and I think to us that you will respond somehow to what measures, which programs are preparing for the same agricultural land business. And the Green-Left bloc's final club will support this programme in the hope that these remarks will be accepted to make implementation and objectives more realistic and effective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59634	Thank you very much. The next club of representatives will be that of HNS, LD, HSU and independent representatives, and will be spoken by the respected representative Predrag Štromar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59635	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues ahead of us The proposal for a multi-annual programme of cadastrian measurement of construction areas for the period 2021 is precisely the adoption of that programme in line with the programme of the current government, which plans to adopt a programme for the renewal of land registers through cadastrian measurements for all construction areas in which more than 80% of all economic activities take place. I have pointed out on many occasions in public, especially during my ministerial mandate that land records are the basis and foundation of society, economy and regulated rule of law. In order for land records to make sense, they must reflect the real state of land particles on the ground, which is unfortunately not the case with us everywhere, so we face in practice a series of problems at our disposal and the management of space as an important economic resource, from hitchhiking investments, legal uncertainty in real estate transport, difficulties in implementing strategic projects and ultimately economic development as a whole. In the last 4 years. The DGU has received statements of interest from 350 JLS to launch new cadastrian measurements, which is sufficiently relevant to the implementation of this programme. Namely, the catastrian and land-marking situation is a prerequisite for launching any development projects and investments in our local environments. This is why it is extremely important to implement the programmes and measures interdisciplinaryly with a high degree of cooperation and coordination of all state bodies and all institutions involved in the implementation process, but directly and indirectly, citizens themselves. This proposed programme of cadastral measurements plans to restore the cadastra and land books for 600,000 hectares of land and real estate in the construction area in the Republic of Croatia, as well as those areas, construction areas that are important for the development of cities and municipalities. It is 8.7% of the total area of the Republic of Croatia, which is estimated to be more than 80% of all economic activities. The planned 10-year period should be long enough for this programme to be achieved and I believe that it is in the interest of all social political stakeholders to carry out quality because only in this way can we expect a whole range of positive effects, strengthening the economy, improving the business environment, growing investment and implementing capital projects, more efficient functioning of the real estate market, better quality management of state assets, and ultimately improving public administration. In our HNS, the aim is to improve the system to be as effective as possible and to be a true service to citizens in each segment, and to strengthen competitiveness and attract investment is possible only if we go to change the system without resisting reforms and necessary cuts. These multi-annual programs are ambitious, but feasible and certainly necessary. Therefore, the HNS, HSU and independent representatives will support this programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59636	The next Club of Representatives will be that of the SDP, and the respected representative Mirela Ahmetovic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59637	Thank you very much, dear Vice President HS, colleagues and colleagues. The multi-annual programme is the basis for the restoration of catastras and the establishment of land books. The operators of the activities are DGU and the Ministry of Justice and it is doubtless that this multi-annual programme is positive and has positive objectives of which are only some updates of real estate data in the cataster and land book, strengthening the competitiveness of the economy, improving the planning of space management and its protection, growth in investment, etc., so we will all agree that these objectives are very desirable and very positive. However, I, personally as a parliamentary representative of the SDP, and in every document, have access to what Croatian citizens have from this document, of these activities that are being promoted and planned on the basis of this document, and that they will advance on their own with the help of this document. This is why I approach this programme, of course, from a critical basis, not to criticise it, but to contribute to the improvement of the programme itself, and thus to solving the problems of Croatian citizens who are actually happening to it and to that particular micro-location on the ground. The key problem in the implementation of this multiannual programme is the slow action of the operator of the activity, and I said earlier the holders of the DGU and the Ministry of Justice. This particular problem in the slow action is actually caused by the lack of personnel, and the lack of personnel is also caused by the bribery of existing personnel in both the Ministry of Justice and the DGU, as well as the ineffectiveness of work processes. In this regard, I also made it clear when replicating the secretary of state and in explaining my break what we see as a fundamental flaw, which is again not planning enough funds from the state budget if we say that DGU and the Ministry of Justice and their basic activities are financed from the state budget. We cannot allow activities under this very important programme to be planned to be financed from EU funds and other sources, without knowing in advance what other sources are, whether these other sources will at all finance such activities and whether they have the capacity to do so. Not to mention that today we do not know how and argues in the programme whether we will succeed in withdrawing EU funds for the implementation of this programme. So what's important is that the state administration, that the ministries don't rely on some virtual sources of financial resources when they carry out their basic activity for which they are established and which is paid by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And that's what's unsaid in the program itself. It is amazing that when we talk about the lack of personnel and when we talk about the slowness of the system itself or the bearer of the implementation of this programme, there is no slowness if we talk about state strategic investments, but there is slowness when we talk about solving problems with the particles of Croatian citizens, individuals of natural persons who are paying for all these activities. And who are we here for? Why can we when we want to speed up some procedures, and when it does not matter to us because Croatian citizens do not matter to us, we cannot speed up these procedures. Citizens have done their dues and paid for it, we are talking about the activities of marking their particles, which are within the very deadline, and the deadline has been set just by an agreement signed between the State Geodetic Authority and the local self-government units. However, they have done very well and skillfully, and I repeat, paid for all the activities provided for in this agreement. The programme says planned activities at the annual level are in line with the capacity of operators performing expert geodetic tasks or maintenance services of integrated information systems. So no problems with the capacity of the State Geodetic Authority, no problems with the capacity of the Ministry of Justice. How is it possible, then, that if there is no problem with the capacity of such procedures for 13 and more years because, as I said from my own example in the local self-government unit I have been running, this process has been going on for 13 years. And according to the forecasts of this multi-annual programme, there will be at least three more. However, the country plans to finance these 3 years with 156 million kuna, but does not guarantee it will end in those 3 years. It doesn't equally guarantee who will finance it if it doesn't end in those three years. And not only that, the state in that B1 sub-programme is not planning funds from its source. Therefore, once again, the Ministry of Justice and the State Geodetic Administration will be asked by units of local self-government to finance employees of the Ministry of Justice specifically courts and employees of the State Geodetic Authority. The financing of fees will be requested for these employees, travel expenses for these employees just as requested and requested by the Municipality of Omisalj. And I don't mind the units of local self-government helping to achieve programs that benefit the citizens of that same unit of local self-government, but I do mind that these citizens twice pay the same. They pay and finance employees of the State Geodetic Authority, pay and finance employees of the Ministry of Justice, and are now once again asked to finance these same employees once more because we do not forget the funds from the budget of local self-government units are not from the sky, they are not my own, these are the funds of the Municipality of Omisalj. I'm talking about the Omisalj municipality, and I mean, of course, all local self-government units. In this regard, I believe that it is inappropriate not to plan the State budget to complete the process of rebuilding the catasters and land books as well as that it is insufficient or it is a mistake not to answer that question, that the State budget funds are planned only for this period of 3 years, amounting to 156 million kuna, and that all other funds of 95% of the planned funds are planned only for that period of 9 years. Therefore, what the state budget will provide for for the remaining 6 years if it has secured only in 3 years of action under this procedure. I repeat this page 9 may be a mistake, I appeal to the Secretary of State to correct this error or to point out more clearly how the State will participate in the implementation of activities for which it is in charge anyway. Finally again, such programs and activities are very welcome, however positive, the objectives set out are positive. However, these goals will be reversed, the whole activity will become completely unnecessary if such actions are extended to 13 years and over. I suppose you are aware that not only do you burden both the financial and personnel elements included in this programme but that during the 13 and more years, the many changes that need to be recorded in order to really reflect what is in reality after the completion and closure of the land books. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59638	The next club of MPs will be the HDZ, and the respected representative Branko Bacic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59639	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, respected director of the State Geodesy Administration, the HDZ Representatives' Club will support the proposal for a multi-annual programme of catastrian measurement of construction areas for the Republic of Croatia in the next ten-year period. As already indicated in the introduction, the programme is based on Article 8. The state geodetic law, the state measure of the property cadastre, which we have legally prescribed the obligation to adopt such a programme and, on the other hand, also after the Croatian Parliament adopted this multiannual programme, the law obliged the government to develop annual programmes. This programme sets out the areas of the Republic of Croatia to be covered by this multiannual programme and, as can be seen from the programme itself, it is a building area in the Republic of Croatia. Why did the government decide to move this program, make a new state measure right on building land. Well, that's quite clear, so the reason is the fact that this is the most valuable in the financial sense of land in Croatia, where almost 80% of all business activities take place. These are areas where large capital infrastructure, economic, social projects are generally large. The assumption of the realisation of these projects is the issue of a building permit, the assumption of the issue of a building permit has resolved property law on particles on which certain projects of certain activities I mentioned earlier are carried out. Presumption of resolved property legal relations was arranged a cadastre and a arranged land book. We are witnessing that over the past 30 years all projects of capital, transport, economic, social infrastructure have been significantly slowed down because this segment of unresolved property relations has been an obstacle to their rapid realization. All of us who have participated in smaller, simple or complex demanding projects in any way know how much unsettled property law has been an obstacle to this realisation, whether we have done it privately as citizens, whether as officials we have participated in projects at local or national level. Therefore, in order to boost investment, in order to resolve property, to allow for the accelerated development of Croatia, one of the fundamental assumptions is the construction of the cadastres and land books. The territory of the Republic of Croatia is about 56,000 km2 or 5 million and 600,000 hectares, with this programme we cover about a tenth of that area about 550,000 hectares of building land as far as the spatial plans of the Republic of Croatia's building land are. It is clear that we have just heard from the club We can ask the question, and what about the other space, the area of forest land, agricultural land and all other land. It is clear that this programme does not intend to put an end to the shift in the creation of state measurements of those cadastrian municipalities that or the unit of local self-government that they intend to manage other than this programme, which will be guided by the Republic of Croatia out of their own personal interests or the need for the unit of local self-government to continue with the measurement of the entire space of its unit of local self-government, not only of which this programme will move the state in such a way that it is incorporated into a multi-year programme of state measures of the construction area. Therefore, it is not in conflict with one another, the state is working on a programme of this many-year programme that will cover building land, but that does not mean that the unit of local self-government that is interested, and we have just heard that 350 units of local self-government are interested in entering the project. Therefore, it is not compatible with one another, however, any happier than I have been for 30 years or almost 40 years on these activities in this business, so that in the next 10 years we do not testify that we have just moved 550,000 hectares of land in construction than that we have gone to the other part and to other land. But when we talk about the area, I said just now that this multi-annual programme will cover only 10% of the area, but in terms of... particles, it includes 42% of it is important to mention. So in Croatia, in 3,360 catastrian municipalities, about 14.5 million cadastar particles were recorded. The building area where the parcelation is more intense means less particles, less surface particles. We will include over 6.5 million particles, so 42% almost every other particle in Croatia will be covered by this state programme. Why? Because agricultural particles, forest land on the surface of its particles is much more common and parcels than they are in building land. When this approach is made then almost 40% of the assets of the Republic of Croatia and the citizens of the Republic of Croatia will be included in and will be resolved through this programme and this fact gives a different dimension. I'm going to say something, and later in an individual discussion, the financial aspect of this. First thing he brings us? When an analysis has been carried out in local self-government units that have been successful over the past 30 years since the creation of the Republic of Croatia and have been more active in making new state measurements of the new cataster and restored the land book, one analysis found that these units of local self-government increase their original income to a level of 40% in the section relating to the payment of municipal compensation, municipal contribution and traffic to real estate. For what? Because by setting up the land book, the catastra immediately increases the value of real estate when that property is registered one through one, unlike the property that I have 70, 80 or 150 co-owners because from the day of the creation of the land book and the catastra 200 years ago, Emperor Francis was granted a diameter or state measure in the space of the then state. Since then, a number of changes have been made to date, no desert debates have been conducted, no divisions have been made among the heirs, and then clearly that number of co-owners simply increased by a new enrolment, and has not been taken care of, and no cadastre or land book has been updated. From this fact, it is clearly increasing, increasing the value of the property, on the other hand, establishing a real number of buildings, the area of these buildings, which leads to an increase in revenues from the municipal fee, and is being accelerated, building on these premises being accelerated, is there no such obstacle due to unsettled property relations, JLS collects higher revenues from the basis of municipal contributions. And one more thing if I have time, I'll say it. So, often it's a problem how we're going to finance a state, a new state measure. The state measure when it is implemented to the citizens who are private owners of their most valuable property, no one has more property in the material sense than their building, their plots, their gardens, their own houses, etc., for that property the citizens of the Republic of Croatia very little, very little on the annual level, while on the other hand for movable property, and these are their vehicles for registration and technical inspection somewhere around 4-5,000 kuna. Croatians annually for registering their movable assets such as the vehicle allocates about 6 billion kuna per year, and we are now probleming whether we will invest 3 billion kuna in Croatia in the next 10 years. that we may settle their most valuable assets for the Croats and all our fellow citizens, which are their particles, their plots and their houses. So when we talk about the aspect, the financial aspect of this, we think about this program both, and that fact. Thank you. I'll discuss it more in an individual discussion later.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59640	Thank you. We're going to an individual debate, and the first one will be a respected representative of Anka Mrak-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59641	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, dear secretary of state, director of DGU, colleagues and colleagues. So let's see what we actually want, which is the goal. The goal is to have a country in place, the goal is to have a built-up cadastre, the goal is to have the cadastre and the grantovnica mutually coordinated, and when anyone wants to invest anything in this, I mean from any individual to large systems to time accurate and correct data. How to get to that goal is actually a key question and we have a problem to get to that goal. We have a problem with having the legacy of a former catastrophe that was austro-Hungarian in the part of the country, a former catastra that was Italian in another part of the country, a grantine where people didn't record all their changes from inheritance and changes that were on the property and all of that comes at one point at a time for payment. Now, how to get out and how to try to solve the problem is a key question. I'm really in favour and I think, and I'm sure it's good that we've decided to go, let's try to solve what's in the construction area in the Republic is there's a major economic activity, it's about as much as here 600,000 acres or something less and what I've already said about 9% of RH is covered by construction areas in which it's partially built, partly not built, and let's try to fix it for that 9% that we're safe for those 9%, and then of course parallel to doing everything else. And now we come to what our feet can plant along that path and what can be our problem. So the geodetics have tools, we have sure enough geodetics because there were approximately 1700 geodettes who, they have the registration that they can do, so today you have all the possible drones, no one goes with those sticks other than kids when they're still learning in college, so technically it's possible to do this, and technically we have recorded Croatia on several occasions in different ways. But how do you spend the rest of your story? So that's the key thing. The story will not be carried out until the end, it must be clear to all of us, unless the laws that will allow it are amended and it will not be implemented by the Joint Commission of the Ministry of Justice and DGU, which will meet once a month or twice in 6 months and have something to say. So, we need to change the laws, we need to put together joint operating bodies that make up people from the garter and catastra and do things parallelly. That means when something, I do it very plastically and simply, I'm technical and so I work, and so I say, when geodites make something and record something and record it parallel to those who are in charge of the property dealings garter. These processes have to be fast because if they don't do it and if it's going to fit like some measurements then they're going to stand there and we're not going to solve it again, then we're going to have recorded fine construction areas, but what's the point, the point is that when you get, to get your, your excerpt out of the grantine and that he's such a poop, that's the point. Now, I've been taking part in this for a certain way for many years, and I know about what it was all about, everything fell on people. So, this multi-year program I have no problem raising my hand for him, do I think he should. The government will bring in annual programs, someone will do something, everything falls on people, falls on people from a few things. We've got a few first, we've got a small one, and we're paying them low. And the second is so I remember well when the ZIS was, and so when the CIS, the Joint Information System that was equally announced and funded, and it will be interesting to know how much money was spent for that, then the problem was to pay overtime for people from the grantshop who, who said we in their normal business won't be able to do it, we have to work overtime and the problem is to pay them overtime, we have to be aware of it. We don't have in Croatia and we can't bring people out of some other countries to do our job. We've got people we've got. If we want this program to come into fruition, and I'm sure we do because I'm not sure anyone wants to because we just want to have a land, then we have to be aware of all these things.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59642	We have two replicas. He is the first respected representative of Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59643	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, Mrak Taritaš, I am not sure, I apologize if I have misunderstood you, whether you are the committee that will be formed from this programme and that will follow, propose the spaces that will be measured by the government's annual programmes, or bring the programme to them to carry out the national measure of the year with a commission that monitors public exposure and insight while the state measures take place. If you're thinking about a committee that monitors public exposure, which is why there were really a lot of objections because it's late, namely after the state dimension, after the state measure until the land book is formed because of public exposure and insight, it takes years and years, and often times then it doesn't even make sense, we've changed it by law in a way that the author of measurement, and that's the geodetic company that does the state measure she does the exposure, and only the commission is later doing it by appeal. Therefore, it was already settled by earlier law I don't know if you had any doubts about that. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59644	Honorable representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59645	You're a little bit, and I'm sorry, my colleague Bačić, I was actually talking all the time and I didn't mean that commission, but I thought this law might have the right effect, and I listened very carefully to the opening statement of the secretary of state who, on several occasions, pointed out that we had the needs and amendments to the two laws. So we have to do it because we just won't, we won't work. What we've just done is one more step. So, we all know what our problem is, and if we know what our problem is, let's try to get out of trouble. I'm talking about something that was there in 2014, 2015, it was our problem back then because we just didn't have people to do it and we didn't have tools. Now that we've got all the tools, when we've got all the legal frameworks, let's not have a problem with that in the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59646	Dear representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59647	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues that you mentioned exactly this final realization because there were really many situations in which units of local self-government required joint co-financing to encourage that it was these judicial advisers in the finals who had to make enrolment in land books not to wait or to be implemented until the end. Indeed, it must be clear to everyone that this is an extremely high quality, extremely large amount of resources and the State Geodetic Administration has technical, informative and human potentials that we can still go through with this in order to really end this quality project and all of these previous ones really lead to the end right and that we finally have a land-based book state and catastra.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59648	Honorable representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59649	Thank you very much. A colleague of Peric's exactly like that. So, if after all these years, so I'm sure that each of us has a desire to have, that Croatia has a fixed cadastre and garland. I was one of those who argued that it might be a unique cadastre and grantovnica, that it might be unique all together according to the model of some other countries. I even have some material here, so you see, you have different methods of how some other countries did it even in the area of the former Yugoslavia some other countries have that formed a unique cadastre and grantovnica because it was seen that we have a problem here among other things, to entangle. And somehow I think this is the project we need to stop, the project we need, the project, everyone with their real estate knows how much trouble he's had, I solve one particle for 10 years, and I end up giving up, and then I come back again. So let's not fall on people Let's not fall for that sort of thing. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59650	The next one will be discussed by the respected representative Nevenko Barbaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59651	... Director, colleagues and colleagues, although this Programme is a multi-year catastrian measurement of construction areas for the period '21-'30. written clearly, precisely in a way to understand it and less addressed yet there are several concerns, several questionnaires or dilemmas. [[Specially enabled.]] So, we're talking about the restoration of cadastrian and land books based on the built-in catastran dimensions of real estate in construction areas, or about 600 hectares of building land and construction land areas. It's a little less than 10% of the total surface area of the Republic of Croatia. It is estimated that around 80% of the total economic activity takes place in those areas. The argument that is acceptable, justifies the choice of priorities and, for example, if we are in Ljubusca, and I mention Ljubusko is the same as our heritage, the same problems, the same goals, even though it is another state, we have done coordination for the entire Catastrian municipalities and for all the land, so both agricultural and forest and others, so we have arranged the entire Catastrian municipality. We gave priority to the city's area for the process of grounding buildings, establishing public areas, and legalising illegally built buildings where this was the case where the problem of legalization was unregulated land and the like, and after that we were doing catastrian municipalities with agricultural land where intensive farming is our greatest development option. I mean, this procedure will have to be carried out for all the land, and priorities are to be discussed. For the general public, it is certainly unknown why this procedure takes so long, when it will be completed, why this amount of costs, is this program adapted to the existing available workforce trained for cadastral measurements that are a possible problem, narrow throats in implementation. For example, for a long time, we have had a problem with insufficient catastrian training of the land-book office, so I hope that quality preparations and all misunderstandings have been removed for this programme. And finally, for a better understanding of both this programme and these few why perhaps it was necessary to clarify the current state of the cadastrian and land books, to clarify all the limiting factors of such a situation. On several occasions state responsibility is cited as a negative legacy of the socialist period. I mentioned Ljubusko and part of the experiences in these five minutes is too short to explain, count the gaps and examples of cataster discrepancies and land-book documentation. Therefore, this programme and this process, its follow-up has no alternative, as stated in this programme, indeed enables improving the efficiency and transparency of the land-book administration, increasing legal certainty in real estate management, and as it states, it certainly encourages investment, improving the business environment, but also improving the efficiency of the judiciary. A sufficient reason to support this programme, with a request to seek to speed up this process and to continue and for other land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59652	The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Predrag Štromar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59653	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. We all want this program to ultimately aim to have a quality service for the citizens. In fact, we know what the problems are, we know that much of the catastra is not accurate, we know that it is not even consistent with other books, especially the property ones, and it is certain that for each commendation this long-term programme is. And I appeal that as soon as we go, then we change the laws that you've predicted we're going to replace them because what this program is going to do if we don't change the laws and procedures in the end, it's going to last again as long as it's ever been, and we have examples of 7, 8, and more years to edit a catastran book. We need to think parallelly and with human capacity training, for technology I don't think there's any problem today, that technical capacities can be resolved very quickly, that financially they don't need so much. And speaking of finance, 3 billion and something certain that it is the desire to give as much as possible to the EU, that it should be sought wherever possible in any programme, and of course there is certainly funds for that because this is actually adapting our legal system to a common European acquis. I hope you can make such a financial concept, close the financial structure that you don't need to invest a unit of local self-government, although we can see if 350 now has a desire to edit her cadastrian books, so we know why. Because someone wants to invest, someone wants to build their own personal house, and someone wants to build a factory, and there's definitely a need for municipal infrastructure, and that's why they asked for it. But let's agree on a model that they should at least give of all the participants, if not nothing and hope that the citizens won't have great costs, it's not their fault that something is wrong in the catastro. We citizens are more to blame for that property part, if we haven't transferred the names of the owner and we don't know who owns which cadastrian particles. Of the 3 billion 25 million, that means 2 billion 869 million kunas we're planning out of the eu funds, I wish you a lot of energy, knowledge and happiness to actually implement it. Then I would also say something about agricultural land, there are some problems in some parts of Croatia and with the agricultural disaster. I hope so, and we heard on the board the other day that the Ministry of Agriculture is also preparing some legislation which, together with the DGU, would be easier and parallel to this plan to solve the cataster problem in building land so that this could be done parallelly and on agricultural land. I hope we'll do it all the way in your plan, and here's for sure you have the support of our MPs from the club of the HNS, HSU and the independents.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59654	Now she will speak to a respected representative of Grozdana Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59655	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Your Honor. So, we have a very important programme ahead, a multi-annual programme covering over 3 billion of which more than 2.9 billion is from European funds and only 156 million from the state budget. And then the question arises where these 156 million kunas will come from, and we know that in previous years, in previous periods in previous mandates for this, Croatia has had to come up with funds from banking systems to finance all those projects that have been working and done by the State Geodesy Administration, the director can testify as well. So in this way we can be very pleased that with this much resources we will be able to cover this much, it means 550,000 hectares that, which pulls and enables Croatia to develop in the right direction because it is the most qualitative land that is very attractive for all of us. What my colleague mentioned earlier, yes, we ask the question why we have so many broken land books and catastras, precisely because we all and our predecessors in our families didn't do transfers and when they agreed and when they signed certain contracts, they didn't do transfers and they didn't edit relationships between each other, family and now we have exactly, especially in Dalmatia, where I come from, we have a terrible lot of problems. I think that, I'll mention here, the case from my Zadar where and then, while I was down there, we did a lot of things together with DGU and then also, we suggested that we co-finance exactly the judicial advisors so that everything that was done through the measurement would be carried out in the land books. It was very, very difficult, however, here, now everything that has been done so far is done both Diklo and Bokanjac and KO Black, is implemented and done and continues. Of course, the intensity is that more than 1184 hectares are included in the second phase, but also the plan is to make a measurement for our islands because they are part of the city, which is the East, Molat, Olive (Rava), Silba and, of course, the rest of the k.o. Black and c. Zadar. What I would point out, and there are problems that most of all we do may be inconsistencies and non-coordination of individual ministries, and I hope that in this period and this Programme, it will cover, and that is the moment when we have the real implementation of the building land, the recording of that building land owned by the state to the units of local self-government and we have individual cases of natural persons owned by that land for decades, perhaps even centuries, and now it has been established that it is in or part of its plot covered by state land, and then neither that part of that particle is resolved quickly. Here, these are some of the problems we have on the ground, and I hope that by just amending certain other laws, then it will be possible to arrange for these procedures to be accelerated and that we can really solve property and cadastrian relations as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59656	We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Raukar-Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59657	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. Peric, fellow Members, at the beginning you said there was concern about this small amount that was foreseen from the state budget. On the contrary, a few of us have found one concern about exactly 2 billion 869 million that will move from the EU funds and most clearly, you, other sources. It's not clear to us what other sources they are, so here's how it might be, if you know anything about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59658	Your Honor, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59659	Thank you very much. It's a methodology and a way to create these programs. There are always other sources, other sources when most of the funds are, the EU is, then this is from the state budget, and the state budget we know from which all sources are funded, there are both dedicated and there are non-intentional. Therefore, when something is set up by the programme, then be sure, what the Programme is assigned and when an annual plan and programme is made, then those funds are going exactly as agreed, that is, the way we adopted it, then you don't have to be afraid that these other sources won't budge.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59660	Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59661	Thank you very much. My colleague Peric, you have reached the end of your exposure, so to speak, of a very important topic, which is the relationship between the local self-government and the state in relation to the land. So, we know when, what law it came into, and for 30 years, I can say, it's not settled. We even have one law that says that if the unresolved relationship between the units of local self-government and the state, that a project can go on until this is resolved, so we're the same state. Well, we're gone, I don't know how much and now someone's throwing a leg at someone. On the other hand, you know who represents the interests of the state, then when, their task is to always take any decisions they have, they complain. There is no forward for us until we admit it, and we are not going to solve it because in a certain way it prevents and develops some projects that are happening in the area of local self-government units. This is a topic that needs to be dealt with seriously, dealt with, dealt with.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59662	Dear representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59663	Thank you so much for bringing this up because I didn't have time. Yes, it is a problem that needs to be tackled primarily because it is a matter of reliability for us as an institution, as a country where no serious large investor, nor a small one that the smallest one will invest unless there is a solution to these relations, so it is the basis of everything that is written that this must really be both reliable and ultimately property-mandated in the state between these or those levels, it must simply be possible with changes to the law to make it very clear and fast. What's our problem and our investors is that it's a quick fix.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59664	Dear Representative Stromar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59665	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Peric, at first you began to talk about it, about the funds that have been invested and spent so far, and you said there were a lot of loans and which should be returned afterwards. You've seen it perfectly well. I am only now hoping that this 10-year programme will not be under that sentence and other resources and other sources, a lot of these where we are in debt, but that it will be mainly EU grants, and I think you've seen it very well.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59666	Dear representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59667	Thank you very much. I wanted to highlight what was going on so far that it was actually all the funding from the state budget and the JLS budget, that they had jointly figured out how to finance certain measurements, and then all of this and the state budget didn't have enough, so he had to find the credit partners so he could finance it all together and a lot had been done. In addition, it was necessary to train the DGU and information and information, etc., these are very demanding and very expensive projects that were important to make as a prerequisite, and people have been educated. So now that we have European resources at our disposal, then we can make a very big step, and in fact this 156 million is minor compared to what we can get out of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59668	Now, the honourable representative, Josip Boric, will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59669	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Director of Geodetic Administration, colleagues and colleagues. This multi-year programme of catastrian measurements of construction areas for the 2021 period is for me personally and as a representative and as a man who has done something at local level and a longtime politician who has worked in executive power one for me is more important documents that we will bring and very valuable for all of us. I think that he is a kind and reform of the total catastra that has been waiting for almost 10 years because what has always been problematic were problematic finances, not our will, not ours, but simply costing it, and I finally think that through this programme we can now see or see exactly and all the benefits of the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the EU and all that brings us this possible multiannual financial framework and all these funds that are available to us for the next 10 years, and we are talking about more than 25 billion euros that should help us in part and implementing this programme. Why do I think that's the case? Because I think that when we heard this data here today from a colleague of Bačić, it means that we have a total of 3360 catastrian municipalities in the Republic of Croatia that have about 14.5 million particles, and that this programme includes 6.5 million of them, meaning that spatially it refers to almost 40% and more of this space of the most attractive, but in terms of ownership, I think it includes almost 90% of all inhabitants of the Republic because it is precisely in the building areas of the most intense, let's say, the question of the ownership of individual persons. Everything that remains outside the building areas of the settlement is mostly owned by the Republic of Croatia and is large particles, forests, agricultural land, etc. And that sure property may not be the most important moment because I think it's even more or less famous. What this program brings really takes 10 years. to solve what has plagued us all, especially the leaders of local self-government. To build today a line-up infrastructure facility communal, say the road, draining, water supply, with 10 or 100 particles simply requires a few years of preparation and resolution of property relations, many, many, many conversations, many court procedures to reach that building act, and then, of course, slows all of us even though the Republic tried to jump into many of these situations, especially for roads, Croatian roads, etc.. By changing other laws in order to resolve the issue of infrastructure as easily as possible, we still have to find out today that what is offered through the programme is really important in order to finally know the owners of ownership, determine the particles and finally solve it through what is most important to us, and that means through land books that we know clearly who the owners are and who we address when we need something. The state has long noticed this problem in 2000. has adopted a state programme to organise ownership and ownership legal records of catastras and land books on islands. And he was ambitious, he should have solved a large part of the cadastar scale problem on the islands since 2000. The funds were also provided, but again the finances have in some way made it impossible for me to think, I don't know if this programme has ever been completed until the end, but they have made it impossible to complete the cataster on Croatian islands, and this cataster on the islands may be the worst in the whole of the Republic because it is characterized by a number of i.e. The high density of particles, especially in construction areas, and simply many today will say that it is this delicacy and has preserved islands from excessive construction because they could not get rid of ownership, property ownership relations, but simply this one we still need to end it. What I know in my community is that books have been made, new books of cadastrian measurements on the islands of St. Grgur and Goli Island, who simply lost their land books because of their famous historical role after the end of that country and did not exist at all. That's where the state made its own on this program, and I don't know how far we've come by all the other programs. Units of local self-government are important initiatives, and they are the ones that will have the largest benefit in this with their citizens. I think that pure property and arranged property is a guarantee of the prosperity of every citizen and then every local self-government and Republic of Croatia as a whole, and that is why I support this multi-annual programme. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59670	Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59671	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Representative Boris, I think you have well detected that this is one of the most important proposals facing the Croatian Parliament. We all say that we need more, stronger, better, faster, and of course we are all in agreement that Croatia can do more in this economic and in-in progress, but these are the things that we have to solve. These ten years must be a challenging time. The price of 3 billion kuna looks high at first glance, but as a man who was the head of local self-government knows how many problems unregulated land can create, assumptions for faster development, bringing investors into the area of all local self-government units, and especially on islands where you come from.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59672	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59673	Thank you very much. I think that through the debate, but also through your replica clearly what this means to us and I say arranged land books are a guarantee of the prosperity of every citizen and we have heard some comparisons today, we who know what we are talking about means many local self-government leaders have tried and without such programs to solve the issue of scales, I think this is about some 100 local self-governments who have done something and have completed quite possibly some measurements and know how burdensome the local population was. Many are that amount of cost that did not share small with its inhabitants. Unfortunately, some have also lost the election, etc., since the inhabitants are not always willing to participate in it even though they are the most concerned. Of course, it is important to all of us, and we hope to have an understanding, and these financial resources are truly generous. From conversations with many geodetics and institutions, it was clear to me, too, that the total measure of the Republic of Croatia would cost between 5 and 7 billion kuna, which is not a small amount, but this 50% We should definitely solve the most attractive part, and these are building areas. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59674	Dear Representative Tomislav Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59675	... Secretary of State, Director, colleagues and fellow MPs, I am personally pleased by this programme and I think this is the right move in terms of what we all want to finally solve the cadastre in the Republic of Croatia. [[Specially enabled.]] Since all my predecessors talked about the program, they said something about the numbers I'm going to try to say what's going on on in the field in order for the general public to know it. Here is the data of how many cities, municipalities or units of local self-government have long launched the catasters in their area and here the document lists positive effects of such a thing. In my town of 126 km2, 9 catastrian municipalities, three of us are just finishing up a little bit now, and a period of 16 years has passed. And that's why this project is good because it defines that large amount of EU grants from over 3 billion kunas. It also defines the part relating to the projection of the state budget over the next 4 years and what has often been questioned here by this kind of unknown x amount, or an unknown source of 2 billion kuna, is simple. So politics in my city, and also in some other cities and municipalities, was such that for all of our citizens they were you, solving these relationships and setting up the catastras absolutely free. In fact, it wasn't free because it took over the city. The question arises since in my replica I also mentioned that 3D cadastre to be solved, and we see what happens to the Law on the restoration of earthquakes affected areas and unresolved property-legal relations what they are like here. So it's something that needs to be done urgently to resolve this issue and ownership as soon as possible, but also to settle these cadastrian issues. Here are several arguments that contribute to what is written in this programme, so strengthening the competitiveness of the economy is quite evident in all the cities and municipalities that we have embarked on in this story of catasters. So in my town of Bakru, in the business zone of Kukuljanovo we see in Policy, we see in a number of other cities that in this prompt solution of this problem started in time. We have an improvement in the business environment, also proven, clear. Growth investment, too. What I think is a problem, and what we're going to do with the secretary of state, since it is now in your portfolio that we have to deal with in particular is to improve the management and availability of state property. It's a problem that every unit leader of local self-government can talk to you about for days. About the timing of the settlement, about the failed investments, about the insufficient personnel and everything we're going to have to solve in a very short period of time. The second part of the story that relates to the timing of all of this. What the State Geodetic Administration will do, so to prepare agreements with local self-government units, it has been so far, all of this that is being called public procurement for geodetic and catastrian services, etc. and that part of which the Ministry of Justice performs. What has been the problem so far, I hope that this programme will solve this because the funds are secured, that is what has been constantly emerging and that they have been able to solve the cadastre and to take care of the local self-government cadastres have taken over a commitment that they didn't need. So the court determined he needed a dactylographer in his office, had no funds to hire the city and finance the city's salary. He had no means of equipment for photocopiers, he provided the city or municipalities. A similar situation is also the case with geodetic workers, or travel costs or additional costs were provided, which fell on the burden of units of local self-government. This and these amounts of these 3 billion kunas I believe will include these costs And we'll sort of manage to regulate it. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59676	Thank you. Honorable representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59677	Thank you very much. You've touched a few topics, but I'm going to refer to one topic, and that's the amount of 3 billion kuna that we've mentioned here on several occasions. I didn't mention it because you can't get anything for nothing and you can't expect something to be done without it costing nothing. But let's think a little differently, how many billions and billions so far have lost at the level of what units of local self-government, which at the state level, of the investments that have come and gone because it wasn't a settled cadastre and grantovnica, did they get from the head of local self-government units, and not to say from some ministers the answer that they don't know how long the solution will last, and then when they asked what's good about it from the municipality, the city, and what's from the state, and... they're all states, and someone's gone down with their shoulders. Let's try to think about how many billions we've lost so far because we haven't solved it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59678	Thank you. Dear Representative Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59679	Well, I've been in this problem for 16 years actively operationally on the ground, things have gone beyond recognition since 15 years ago, even with this legalization of the objects we've had. Data and how much something will cost are known, there are more or less indicative amounts. Let's say the estimated value and agreed on in my area for nine catastrian municipalities was 46 million kuna, now that we see how much of this program is intended from different sources, it's easy to estimate in terms of the surface and the number of particles that something could cost. And the fact that investments failed is, however, about a dozen or seven years ago, eight years ago, things changed sharply. I think that this government and everything that has been done over the past few years has dramatically changed things and that this is very visible on the ground, especially in that part of capital investment in cities and municipalities, not to mention state projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59680	Thank you. Honorable representative Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59681	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear colleague, I agree with you that today when we talk about this topic, a great deal has really been made in relation to 15 years ago, as well as to the example of your city in the city of Karlovac, those first contracts that were concluded by the local government unit had to participate with a certain share, and as you have also funded people who worked on these jobs, as well as with certain material costs, and it is certainly going to be a lot to say at less cost to units of local and regional self-government. And the benefits of that are not only for now but for the future, for future generations, surely inexplicable. For the progress of economic potential, especially as you can testify to the example of your city, because if land books and catastrans are not arranged, there is no serious economic progress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59682	Dear Representative Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59683	I sometimes feel that we in Croatia are too critical, so we constantly criticize everything and everyone, and we often forget that almost 30 years ago we started some kind of war that half of the country was destroyed, Vukovar leveled with the ground, branched out of Dubrovnik, that hundreds and hundreds of miles of the most modern highways in Europe were built, that this Pelješki bridge is now being built, the Ucka tunnel, that all 320 units of local self-government that made the request for catastrasing so much power to move into realisation with the co-operation with the country of catastrases. Well, your Carlovac, too, when we look at him, how many capital projects he's done in the past 10 years, 15 years after those massive bombings during the war. So I think we look too much at some negativity in Croatia, and we don't appreciate what's been done in recent years, and it's definitely been a miracle.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59684	Thank you. Now he will speak to the esteemed representative Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59685	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the Club of Representatives, I talked about all the benefits of this implementation and implementation, the realization of this multi-annual programme of state measures of the construction area in Croatia. I said that and I will repeat that the benefit of the benefit of the benefits of realising the creation of new state measurements, new and renewed land books, we all have from the state that owns that land of the unit of local self-government, citizen or natural or legal person. Everyone's got a lot of benefites out of it. I said, for example, the unit of local self-government on its original incomes increases somewhere up to 40% of the income from municipal compensation, from municipal contributions and from real estate taxes. Not to say that in this unit of local self-government that solves in a way that has been involved in making state measurements and restoring the land's book comes up with new economic activities, accelerates the realisation of all projects, whether they are economic, whether they're infrastructure, transport, social or any kind of projects, they're faster, they're better realised. The unit of local self-government is more successful, the more successful the state has solved its own presumption of development because the unsettled cadastre and the land book, I've said it 100 times, the brakes in any realisation of serious projects. I now took out a here on my Korčula ZK excerpt for two properties, practically next to each other. This one property whose excerpt is here with me the owner is registered 1/1. If he wants to solve the building permit tomorrow in accordance with spatial planning documentation, he can begin the process and resolve it very quickly, because he has been resolved with a fundamental assumption and start to realize. He can sell his property tomorrow if he has an interested buyer. There's another particle next to it, another owner, who's also not a land-based book owner, and there's about 80 of his ancestors, nearer, further relatives that most of them died somewhere in South America, Australia, where they're listed from 1.../incomprehensible/... to two 2110 quarters of the ideal part on this particle. In order for this second one to be in the position of the first one who can begin to realize its project tomorrow, it takes him about 3 to 4 years, the engagement of a lawyer who has to catch up with all these addresses, people, the connection with the real owner, to go to court, through the court to prove this whole, this whole sequence or inheritance, and if it proves it will be free of the property tax when it is resolved, but if it doesn't prove that it is indeed in that even though it is a particle but that it belongs to him by the basis of the inheritance, the tax administration will, at the rate of 3% of real estate tax, still account for the costs which, to register on a particle that is normally owned by him, perhaps his family. Now, with this kind of program that we've proposed, which the government is proposing, and this second one, if it's my Korčula, for example, or some other unit of local self-government in those first units of local self-government and cadastrian municipalities that are going to be covered by this multiannual financial, multi-annual state-measured plan, this second one will be over a year, two, three procedures that are prescribed by a law that is something different, which some of us here have forgotten to be in the position of this first, without any kuna cost. And if we don't do it to get him to do it to himself, he's going to spend 30-40,000 kuna expenses to even himself with a neighbor who's solved his real estate or solved it for years. So there's no question here how important this is. And now, when the question of the financial cost of such a measure is asked by me it's a second-rate question because the benefit is so great that the state and the unit of local self-government, and also me as a citizen who doesn't have a proper property legal relationship in the interest of this coming to pay me just that something and cost me because it's going to cost me a lot less than if I have an unsettled property that it's in my solving a lawyer through courts and only then brings me into that position to have a solution of property legal relations. Therefore, it has no doubt about the correctness and acceptance of such a programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59686	The Honorable representative of Begonja has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59687	Thank you, Vice President. Dear counterpart Bačić is interested in whether the implementation of this programme will contribute to the harmonisation of data in land books with data in the catastro. Namely, Drnis is still being done by the so-called "Drinish" in the land plot. The old one, in a new one, but it's 40 and over. Another implementation of the programme whether it will facilitate the resolution of property-legal issues to investors, it was about legal persons or citizens, which is important for obtaining a building permit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59688	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59689	I thank Mr. Representative, my colleague Begonja that I have already said this.../incomprehensible/... the implementation of this programme in the space of some unit of local self-government will allow the resolution of property legal relations, therefore, of the state, after the implementation of the measure, after the presentation of the data from the measurement, that should be said here. By law 3 years ago, we changed the way of exposure because it was no longer done through courts, but the authority measure the geodetic firm for exposure, and then only in cases of appeal, it solves a commission that had previously done the same, so it was slow, so it happened to go into state measure, and then it would have taken years not to say the decade to renew the land book. In this case, you're right you'll get rid of property law-related property faster, better quality and entrepreneurs and owners in Drnis, if Drnis is and will be safe in that one programme because it will be covered they will get a fully resolved property legal status. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59690	Dear Representative Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59691	Dear colleague Bačić, I actually love the examples of the lives you've brought about this 1/1 and these others. So with this catastrophe that are benefits for our citizens? His obligation is to draw that white cross on his particle to record it from the air and come to 2.3 debates and has such paper 1/1, practically without any expense if the local self-government unit takes over his expense as is the case with me. Second, if he goes out on his own to solve a cadastre, a lawyer, a geodetic elaborate, it seems to me that somewhere around 4,600 kunas that our citizen has to pay to get that piece of paper done to him. Then court disputes and all those costs that arise. So this program and what we're doing right now and the government is preparing is exactly what we're practically giving our citizens on a gift.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59692	Thank you. Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59693	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague of Klaric, many times you, in your debate, give such examples that best show what can be obtained by a single law or programme. I am convinced that a number of JLSs will be interested when they find themselves in this programme on an annual basis that the government will adopt after this that numerous JLS will be and will already be an integral part of this programme, that the rest not only of the construction area, but also of the other part of the forest land and agricultural land will find the funds so that they can not only compare and make a state measure for this part relating to construction but also to the rest of the catastrian municipality. And I agree, and it'll be free for the citizens then, and yet the question can be asked whether it is in accordance with the constitution so that citizens who have no property must pay my property through their tax duties which I did not arrange for the state to fix. So you just need to see [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59694	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59695	Thank you very much. Comrade Bačić, here's from your examples, but I think all the debates are clear that this multi-annual programme needs to be supported by HS and certainly this is one of the mini reform of the entire system as well as the digitisation of the entire system and land books and catastras, so this has helped us greatly in the overall functioning, everyone and the citizens and those who need that data. You said it was a big save. The cost is 3 billion, the savings are certainly 3 billion and much more when we look at the cost of all these procedures to solve a single particle and that those 1/1 through these 3 billion just to solve you the cost and return practically. And where they're all at, and these are these troublesome unsolved certainly that this return is then certainly bigger. This is the moment to help citizens who have always been the greatest moment so far why not work on renovations, especially from local self-government. We didn't have the money just enough so we could measure all those particles and pay as much as it costs, and she could do it right. So this aid clearly shows the benefits of EU accession.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59696	Thank you. Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59697	My colleague Boric, I didn't finish before, I was interrupted. So with this programme, the state through the budget will partially co-finance this realization. A budget full of government bonds, however, not all taxpayers are also property owners or have those who have absolutely settled their assets, they will now co-finance and resolve mine by paying taxes if mine is not unsettled. That's all I'm saying is that this approach is sometimes guilty. I am convinced that JLS, when it is already in their area, will take a measure of building land, which is at least 10, and somewhere more than one percent of the total area and JLS that the leaders of these JLS their representative bodies will find a way to enter the process together with their citizens, into the process of restoring the entire space, so land books and catastra real estate, means there in the space of their JLS. And I'm sure citizens who are interested in getting rid of it would be part of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59698	Thank you. Now, the honourable representative Marin Piletic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59699	Thank you very much, Vice President, Secretary of State, Director General of DGU, colleagues and colleagues, I warmly welcome you all. And at the very beginning of a sentence that, listening to all these previous discussions, I think I have to say it. There is no accelerated economic development without the state of play in space, the serious government knows it, the serious DGU, as well as the resolution ministry know it, and therefore they have also sent to the Assembly for adoption of a multi-year programme of cadastrian dimensions of construction areas. As a person who has been involved in the catastrian measure of Novska since 2008, the establishment of a new Catastrian municipality of Bročica, I could be a very critical critic of cadastrian measurements, but in a situation where, as mayor of the entrepreneurship zone, which is fully measured, catastranically and grantically arranged, you sign a contract with 6 new investors. When you finally spend last week’s cadastral elaborate to round up state agricultural land at 100 hectares in your midst, then I can hardly say that this is one of the best programmes implemented in the Republic because the economy and life and traffic of real estate happens exactly in JLS, without the situation being settled, and this is the effort that JLS representatives should give, not only so DGU, not just the government in the budget, not just European funds, but exactly what counterpart Bačić is saying a little bit. So whose responsibility is it for the situation in the area if it's private property owners? Well, of course someone who doesn't have the ability to co-finance someone who has 100, 200, 700, 1000, 2000 acres of land to sort out his condition in space. We actually got materials here to look like a multi-year draft of cadastrian changes by 2030, but the implementation of the cadastral measurement and the establishment of a new land book is a process that will last and the government here is offering a solution to speed it up through the amendment of the two laws, the Law on cadastral measurement and the Law on the founding of land books. This should be speeded up, no one on this issue is slow, but we must not stop the cadastrian measurement due to any changes to the law, and then the government will determine on the basis of this multiannual programme every year which part of the construction areas of the Republic of Croatia wants to measure and fix the situation in space. The more we talk here about an area where 80% of the economic activity is taking place in the Republic of Croatia, the more the 350 JLS thus showed interest in carrying out the measurement. But remember, therefore, that there are also colleagues Klaric and counterpart Ahmetovic who have already carried out the cadastrian measurement. Only in the area of the town of Novska, so 23 settlements, we spent a cadastrian measurement for k.o. New and founding k.o. Bromice, therefore, lasted from 2008 to 2020, so after the measurement of the implementation of this lab and these measurements, but today we have settled the situation in the space, we can also have city, private and private property, thanks to this very updated, measured data. A colleague of Raukar says, therefore, this is embarrassing or terrible, which is why in this Programme, which is also called the Programme of Measurements of Construction Areas, there is therefore no measure of agricultural land. So just the units of local self-government are doing so and recording both the state agricultural land and the rest of their properties in their area, so that they can be combined, not the rounded land, finally put order on them. There was also talk of poor measurement, slow implementation, and lack of personnel. Of course, these procedures take place, so was counterpart Klaric mentioning the payment of the unit of local self-government. Well, it's under the Local Self-Government Act of the Local Self-Government Unit that local self-government needs to worry about the condition of the settlement, the arrangement of the space, and if we can contribute, as we have done in cooperation with the DGU, to get the measurement, to sort out the situation in space, of course local self-government units should participate in the measurement. They are also legally and legally obliged and, of course, manage the situation in their environment and encourage entrepreneurial activity in the space of the unit of local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59700	... We have several, however, more replicas. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] He's the first respected representative of Kolarek.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59701	Here, dear colleague Piletic, I'm very glad to hear you say the first sentence, the economy. Neither you nor I, as mayor of the city of Prelog, would have nine foreign + domestic investors spreading that we do not have a decorated cadastre and grantovnica. It is a benefit and this law, that is, the proposal for a Multiannual Programme, that catastra is the key to the life of all inhabitants. Economy, economy and economy. If we don't have it developed, we won't even have money for culture, sport. In addition to these benefits directly for citizens who bring in, there is a great benefit for.../incomprehensible/... the development of the economy, the expansion of the zone, the expansion of our entrepreneurs and, this is prosperity, not only the unit of local self-government but the Republic of Croatia. And therefore we support [[Employed: Dear Representative Chickenic.]] Yours, yours so beautiful [[Thank you very much. Thank you very much.]] exposure. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59702	Dear Representative Chickenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59703	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59704	Here you go. That's it? Okay. Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59705	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Chicken, for not taking this the wrong way. I didn't say I wasn't into participating the state through the state budget in financing. Yes, the state is the largest owner, the state is partly and co-responsible because this is the situation on the property of her and the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, it is absolutely necessary and necessary, the state must carry the burden mostly, but I just wanted to say that the 3 billion kunas we are going to make are going to take down land books, a cadastre on the surface of 600 thousand hectares of building land, an almost insignificant amount of funds in terms of value and benefits from both the state and its citizens. That's what I meant to say, therefore, I'm in this.../incomprehensible... that you are and I understand, and I understand and support.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59706	Dear Representative Chickenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59707	Thank you very much, colleague Bacic. So we understand each other absolutely, and I said that sorting out the situation in the space means, and that when we start a catastrian measurement like this, of course it's in the interest of most private owners, mostly, they own this land whose condition in catastran and grant records we're sorting out. When someone goes individually to sort out the situation in the catastrus and the garters, order a geodette and order a plotting or already some other geodetic elaborate, then that cost is therefore enormous compared to what, when units of local self-government together with DGU are taking care of. Here's an example, so you can't order a geodetic for less than a few thousand kunas. By the measure of the catastrian in Novska, the owner of one cadastrian particle therefore paid 250 kuna, just so he knows he's sorting out his condition, leaving his property to the heirs arranged, that his property does not rest on the broken books in the garnery, but that he finally has digitalized data which, along with a few... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59708	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Klaric has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59709	Dear fellow... and colleagues Bačić, and others who have replicated you are people who, like you, have been operating on the ground, and we know the importance of this Programme well and how useful it will be and exactly what Mr. Bačić mentioned, as you mention, what I said in one part of my debate, property costs, but ownership has some responsibility. [[Specially enabled.]] When someone gets something bad, they don't know how much they appreciate it. On the other hand, in a package of what the state and local self-government units are funding, they're coming back multiple times. Here's just one example, with me taking care of GIS, so shooting every object in my field cost 3 million and 600 thousand kuna. We paid for it all. Within 2 years through an increase in the municipal fee only for those squares that were upgraded, upgraded, expanded houses without any.../incomprehensible/... we paid that money back. So what's being invested in this program and what units of local self-government are going to invest, multiple returns It's already a proven fact. [[Thank you. Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59710	Dear Representative Chickenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59711	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague Klaric, I absolutely agree, but precisely because of this is such a long-term debate, I will say actually about one program that is important, that is important, but more energy is directed at legal solutions that are yet to be followed, and not what this programme actually contains and includes. Of course, setting up the situation in space and catastro and grants is a prerequisite for development of any environment in the Republic of Croatia. We have to repeat that here as much as we can.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59712	Dear representative Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59713	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Piletić, you have described very plastically everything that these measures are, these programs and these future amendments of the law can bring what they have brought to your city and many others. What pisses me off is that many of our colleagues are thinking about it and looking at that minimum part of how much cities and municipalities should possibly invest, and they don't realize the importance of the overall application of all of this, which has been done so far, how much energy and knowledge it took so far, and the engagement of you as mayors, mayors and services that have done so and how much boredom has been achieved with the resources that have been so far more scarce than what we have now really had the most valuable land to take care of and then run the whole economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59714	Thank you. Dear Representative Chickenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59715	Thank you, thank you very much, dear colleague. So you're absolutely right. Unfortunately, there is no colleague Ahmetovic here who has objected that JLS has received an obligation to the members of the measurement commission, so they are both fees and overtime and additional engagements so that a new land book actually takes place. I am now asking you a question, the value of real estate in Novska and the value of real estate in Omislje and how many local budgets in Omislje of those 3% for real estate sales are received by Omisalj municipalities, as much as the city of Novska. Of course we will contribute to the local budget, we are obliged and in accordance with the JLS Act to contribute to both our citizens and our investment climate to ensure that the situation in the space is settled. And then of course we won't be sorry for every kuna that we can single out in the local budget to pay for those people that we've all agreed that they might have been paid, that there are too few, but if they're already hired, they should be paid.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59716	Thank you. Dear representative Zmajić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59717	Thank you, Vice President. Kolega Piletić, with this multi-year programme of catastrian measurements of construction areas for a 10-year period, the main activity and restoration of cadastres and land books for 600,000 hectares of real estate and land, and one of the main objectives is the growth of the economy and the growth of investments. Do you believe that our municipalities and our cities covered by this programme after the implementation of the programme will strengthen even more economically and in what way? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59718	Dear Representative Chickenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59719	Thank you very much. So, precisely the examples that I cited from my JLS, so I think that just by catastrian measurement and the establishment of a new land book, the situation in space will be drastically arranged precisely because of what the main objectives of this programme are, strengthening the investment climate, increasing the competitiveness of the economy and increasing both public and private investment. You cannot build and sign a contract with the Ministry of Justice and the Administration for the construction of a new court building unless you have resolved the situation in space and ownership relations of the land which is therefore the subject of the construction itself. You can't call a land sale tender in your corporate zone if you haven't solved the orderly papers both in the cataster, in the garter. Not a single investor, whether it's domestic or foreign, will wait for us to handle our property affairs and the situation in space.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59720	Thank you very much. The next one will speak to the esteemed representative of Jure Brkan, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59721	Dear Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Chief Director, colleagues and colleagues, I warmly welcome you all. Here you have heard from all the speakers before me and in the very explanation of this multi-year program how uncontestable and important it is for all the citizens of our country, and also for all those who want to invest and do something in our country. It is extremely important for the leaders of the units of local and regional self-government, and therefore listening to counterparts Piletic, Klaric, Barbaric and Boris say they have managed to bring their cataracts together with the landowner, I sincerely admire them and congratulate them. I'm saying this as former JLS leader in Makarska, in which unfortunately it has failed to do so today, and for that there have been many, many reasons. One of the first reasons is that in one very small and narrow area of 38 km2 of that 28 urban area we have 3 catastrian municipalities, in these 3 catastrian municipalities within the building area is so much parceling that it is something amazing, so these are very, very small cadastrian plots, and these small catastrian plots, if they fall into the building area, have enormous financial value. So in one small area we're talking about a minimum of 200 euros per square, so the price can depend on the location to heaven. At the moment I became an official and mayor of the city of Makarska, I had the situation that JLS, the town of Makarska, meant for years back to its main roads in the city that have existed since the city had not registered properly or measured in the cataster, let alone in the land. The mayors tried before me, for example. The main street of Ante Starčević in the town of Makarska, just before my arrival, was registered to the town of Makarska and as such recorded in the cataster measured and carried out in the land. The other big streets in the city were just the beginning and then we get to the moment that we had as Mr. Boris said we were.../incomprehensible/... all cost, when I ordered measurements and booking of all major roads in the town of Makarska which, where the town of Makarska has, we got to one serious number and we couldn't do any more in one year or do any more, but we deployed through the following year and today we keep doing it continuously. So we come up with a problem that costs something, and we come up with a problem in fact that I can say the only thanks to the citizens of the city of Makarska who dared to book their own, and they did their own measurements on their own cost of doing it, so we kind of had a relative situation when we pulled a road or we're doing a new one or we're building a new one, they defined those borders and roads in the catastrus, and so we could use it. And so I can only say how important this multi-annual programme is, which clearly put the establishment of cadastrian operatives, the catastra of real estate and reconstruction, and the establishment of land books, landowners where there is no one. The cost we're talking about here of 3 billion kuna over the next 10 years is really huge, but it's going to come back multiple times. They'll come back multiple times because the price of real estate in our area still remains with, despite the crisis, it hasn't fallen in spite of everything. While the sales tax on real estate was in force, our cities in Dalmatia had a lot of income from it while it was directly charged with the budget from them. However, what is most important will give security and stability to the units of local self-government just as Mr Piletić had just said about any European projects, whatever we want to do when we have to have land 1/1, when we have to, as you said, have a harmonised, only then with this change will we be able to apply and get everything. We've had absurd situations, we're buying land of 28 owners, of those 28 owners everywhere we buy a piece, while we've even come to the building act so far the owner of the land has already changed and has entered our share of the owners we bought back recently for a few months. And then prove again that we're the real owners so we can get to the building permit. A complicated thing on the ground, but it won't be easy to implement this multi-year program either, but we've seen from the material the State Geodetic Administration and the Ministry of Justice have prepared well and I believe that in 10 years, I will have a much better situation for our country. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59722	Thank you. Your Honor, Agent Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59723	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, a colleague here is mostly being debated here, so the cataster, the land books of what's most valuable, which are building plots, building land, I don't know if I missed or nobody mentioned the problem in agriculture, is getting rid of 20 plots in several hectares and you still have 20 particles. When you try to erase the boundaries of these particles, it costs so much that it sometimes exceeds the value of that agricultural land itself. Which is why we can't introduce this whole story to try and get the owner to see if he agrees to make one particle out of all these particles, and then the situation in agriculture will look far better with Croatia to have bigger particles, to have rounded land than it is today. Here, I personally encounter this problem, I have several owners, particles remain, and the plot has increased 10 and 20 times compared to what it was. Try and install it into the law if you can simply delete those particles, not with the labs and the resources that someone needs to invest, and then normally you don't want to invest because his condition and processing is still what it is today, but it's in the books that stands instead of the picture being better we have her for who she is.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59724	The Honorable representative of the Brkan.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59725	Exactly, my colleague, I agree with what you're saying, and that's the same big problem. However, here, in an analysis of the situation which was the basis of this proposal for a multi-year programme of the cadastral measurement of the construction area, it is essentially one important factor that 80 percent of all economic activities are achieved in the construction area that has a total of 550,000 hectares in the Republic of Croatia. I believe it is primarily because of this is a new measure of construction areas compared to the measurement of agricultural, forest or other areas. I believe that in time, and with the resources available, it will come to order and that the State Geodetic Administration will deal with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59726	Dear Representative Chickenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59727	Thank you very much, Vice President. Since you come from the 10th electoral unit in Dalmatia one of the major problems which is precisely the measure offered through this programme can be solved is private property or property of houses built on state land. In Dalmatian Zagora, they would say it was built on a fly. It's exactly the whole of the Dalmatian Zagora, but therefore the islands have such a problem. So this measure, or generally by measuring the construction area, will fix the situation in that area, but here I am appealing to you and as a parliamentary representative from that area, that you are indeed also suggesting to colleagues from local self-government units that cadastrian measurements and the settlement of the situation in the area can certainly raise the cost of land and property in the back of the coast.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59728	The Honorable representative of the Brkan.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59729	I agree with you in any case, for example. in Makarska, it may have been more fortunate for us than an accident that someone once entered all of the universal assets into the Republic of Croatia, as much as it means it did not remain undefined but was still registered to the Republic of Croatia. But for us as the leader, me and the other mayors of Makarska, it meant that every step of every piece of land that is in Makarska, so, among other things, the most attractive part of the Makarska city beach, we had to ask the state to give us back and that happened two years ago. So the most significant part of the city was not owned by the city but owned by the Republic of Croatia. We got it back and we're mastering it now. Such properties you have as much as you want, the town of Makarska has made regular returns requests in essence for donations of all these properties, however, there are plenty of private people who have their property on state property. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59730	Thank you very much. The next debate will be a respected representative of the Sinisha Yankees. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59731	Dear Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here's an important day for the Republic of Croatia we can call it a day that will certainly remain recorded and it may not look like that on the first one, but as we have heard from colleagues who have said so far how important this is for all of us who are facing the problem of unsolved cadastrian and grant books. So first of all, I congratulate all those who have recognised the problem and who have gained courage and determination primarily from the current minister to the Prime Minister who has accepted the proposal to start with here finally after 30 years of independence, an independent state with the resolution of the catastra, and then finally the gruntovnica. I will not repeat myself about everything that my colleagues before me have said that is important, not just for the state, for regional and local self-government, but as counterpart Kolarek said for the economy, and then for every owner of each land. What I would only supplement and agree with my colleague Lenart, but we must understand that as we have heard here, the main feature is just building land, and agricultural land and forest surfaces are something that will surely continue to be resolved by the ministry in the future, and I hope that only the Ministry of Construction will support the intensity of the Ministry of Agriculture itself on what follows with agricultural land, and that is exactly the kind of business that will in any case engulf this agricultural land. But if by any chance we had started 20 years ago, 30 years ago today would have been about 10 years if we had solved the grants and solved the catastras and would have been in a completely different position. What I would still like to draw attention to in any case, and we have heard that units of local self-government are implementing with their resources along with the ministry because the ministry is also co-financed by cadastral measurements. Unfortunately, there are often times when we face problems when all of this is measured, then you have great problems right in those land books how to write it down. So let's say an example of my neighboring municipality of Elijah, St. Elijah, who has been struggling with measuring for eight years. So these are the problems we're going to face, and I'm calling on the ministry to take special care of it, and we're all in support of the ministry together because here without new employment, without new staff, without new people who are going to operate, operationally enroll both in the Ministry of Justice and then in the State Geodetic Administration, I think it's just going to be just to carry out all these measurements problematicly, difficult and painfully. For example, one negative example can be listed in the Varazdin spas where the measurement was carried out, where even the parcels and the properties that were divided into grant books, but not the owners were defined, not the new owners were defined, but only the old owners with the new measurement were registered as the existing owner. So we have different examples of positive, which are negative. In any case, what I would appeal to believe is that one large majority of citizens were willing to co-finance because they were all aware of the problems that had not been solved both catastran and enrolling their ownership on their parcels and there were examples where the owners were prepared in 99% of them were willing to co-finance and entered into co-financing, but the biggest problem is that when people go ahead, when they measure, and then we get into trouble that we can't enroll, we can't register and enroll in the grant books themselves takes eight to ten years.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59732	We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Zeljko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59733	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So I come from the Kutina where farmland was processed where the mostly composed drain canals were dug, the parcelion was made and the only problem I see at this point is what I said, unfortunately I haven't been able to elaborate it in the last replica. The excessive procedure could be very easy to simplify, the competent institution sends to me as the owner of the memo whether I agree to delete the particle boundaries and create a large particle. If I agree to confirm it and the matter is relatively simple, maybe it's not exactly what I said, but it can be done almost as well. And it would be a far better picture of the state of agricultural land than it is today and would be more acceptable to investors for other things that happen in agriculture if those particles were bigger than they are today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59734	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59735	Well, here's my colleague, Leonard, I agree with you that the procedure is complicated, if the procedure were simple, I don't think we would have this whole problem today, so it wouldn't be convenient to approach the law once, maybe, to simplify all these procedures. We know in the history of the Nucleus problem why we have two practically identical institutions to say so means both cadastre and grantovnica, we know the problem that people were signing up through the cadastre that the state encouraged what on the one hand, sign in, pay their basic tax, and who the real owner that wasn't so important, means the Nucleus of this problem is being dragged there in 1947. But here I congratulate the ministry because my message to both the current minister and the former minister was set off with this particular catasar and grantovnica resolution.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59736	Next replica, respected representative Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59737	Your Honor, as you know, I come from Zagorje, and unfortunately a year ago, two years ago, I had a desert debate, and I inherited a huge number of parcels for which I have no idea where they are, I've never seen them. My father never saw them, my grandfather might have, and I wanted to give up these parcels for the benefit of the state or for the benefit of the city. You know what the answer was? First clean 'em up, then we'll take 'em. Now, I would ask you to answer me if you can and if you know about the situation with you as a percentage of the compliance of books, land books and cadastrian books, and what is the situation with the municipalities and cities around you? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59738	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59739	Well, the situation is very bad, if it wasn't bad, we wouldn't be doing it today. Let's say in the New Marof which, on whose surface we have it seems to me 11 catastrian municipalities, only the central catastrian municipality of Novi Marof is meaning and measured and she was once again the last to be formed, so of 11 only one was solved. As I was saying, the neighboring municipality of Elijah is already eight years old. The team's dealings, they haven't been able to solve it, so they're still in the process. Varazdinske Toplice, a new catastrian municipality that was ultimately not implemented in the way it should be implemented. Normally, these are all the problems that we all know, that we're all meeting, solving these problems, I think this is the beginning, it's not going to be easy, it's not going to be easy, it's even the easiest thing to measure. We today think we have a relatively sufficient number of means our fellow geodetics who can measure it, the biggest problem is how to implement it. And here's my congratulations on the Ministry's courage to go that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59740	This is what we used up the debate on this wheel. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. The next item of the agenda is: - Final proposal of the Copyright and Related Rights Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 61; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia under Article 61. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia in relation to Art. 172. 190. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, the Committee on Information, Information and Media. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Dear Minister of Culture and Media Nina Obuljen Koržinek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59743	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for your honors and your MPs. Here, today is the final proposal of the Law on Copyright and Related Rights, on which we conducted a broad discussion both in the first reading and in the period between the two readings, including the two thematic sessions of the parent committees, so allow me to first remind me of the most important issues that are being covered by this Law. At first, I would like to point out that the adoption of this Law will create preconditions to replace the current 2003 Law, which has been amended and amended six times and that, in fact, by this Law, we will enter into the national copyright protection system and related rights all those modern provisions that are necessary to protect copyright in the digital environment. The direct reason for harmonisation, i.e. the key reason for harmonisation, is to comply with the Copyright and Related Rights Directive on the Digital Single Market, as well as the Directive on the establishment of rules in the exercise of copyright and related rights applicable to certain Internet transmissions, broadcasting organisations and re-emissioning of television and radio programmes, but this Act is also in line with a whole series of other directives and international regulations. I would remind myself, what I also pointed out in my first reading, that a broad expert working group with more than 60 stakeholders was established to prepare the draft of this Law, that a public debate was held that triggered a great interest and that we can actually say that there was one text in which we had installed a whole series of comments that were made in this House of Higher Education in the first reading and that we believe that it was a good framework that respected different thinking and various particular interests. Of course, I will point out now, and I believe that there will be words during the debate, this is a regulation that includes sometimes conflicting interests of different stakeholders, and it is not possible for everyone to always be satisfied at all, but I think we have found one satisfying framework that will result in a much stronger, safer environment for the work of Croatian cultural and creative industries. What I would like to point out in the introduction is the most important areas governing this Law. First of all, this is to remove the legal uncertainty so far related to certain use of exceptions and restrictions from copyright and related rights in the context of new ways of using copyright works and other protected content. Here, for example. We think of automated computer analyses of large amounts of information in digital form, which enable the use of modern digital technologies, then the implementation of teaching in the digital environment, the use of copyrights, copyrights and other subjects of protection in teaching and education systems. I think we may have been more familiar with each other during this pandemic. The second area concerns improving licensing practices and ensuring wider access to protected content. The third area is the issue of creating a market for copyright that works well and, I mean, we have really improved all segments of this Act and the 4th area that I would like to point out in the introduction is that it relates to ensuring assumptions for fair compensation to authors and contractors in contracts that grant their rights for the use of their works or other subjects of protection. A directive aimed at ensuring more favourable conditions for enlargement in EU Member States, television and radio programmes originating from other Member States, in order to facilitate the licensing of copyright and related rights in this proposed law addresses all relevant issues. In addition to those amendments relating to harmonisation with directives, therefore, which stem from the obligation to join the EU in this law, we have carried out a series of amendments and additions to the arrangements of individual issues arising from our national legal system, and where we have seen that there are in practice or implementation of certain problems, shortcomings, inconsistency or inconsistencies, and that will certainly be something that will ensure greater legal certainty. This refers in particular to the treatment of copyright works created in a working relationship where the law now defines that the contract on the creation of copyright by order, the contract on the creation and use of copyright works and other subjects of protection in certain specific areas, then more extensive arrangements for the rights of publishers of information publications, more detailed arrangements for the exercise of the activities of collective exercise of rights, the issue of collective protection, the more precise definition of infringement provisions and, of course, certain minor linguistic and nomotechnical improvements. What is important to point out, and this stems from the expressions, but also from the spirit of the directive, is to increase legal certainty in the field of activities of research organisations of cultural heritage institutions and educational institutions, since this law prescribes mandatory substantive restrictions on copyright and related rights for the purposes of mining text and data, it is the one given meaning, then for the purposes of using works and other protection items in digital and cross-border as well as for the purposes of preserving cultural heritage. For the field of activities of cultural heritage institutions, this law will provide a clearer framework for the regulation of copyright and related rights in order to facilitate the digitisation and dissemination of works or other subjects of protection deemed to be inaccessible on the market. The law also introduces measures to facilitate licensing for the right of availability of audiovisual works on video platforms on demand, which will ultimately contribute to greater availability of Croatian and European works on such platforms. This law also gave rise to a number of words in the debate to the new law, related to copyright for publishers of informational publications, e.g. publishers of daily newspapers, weekly or monthly magazines, etc. and this is expected to address the problem of these publishers primarily in cases where so-called. Content aggregates such as Google news and similar uses in their publication informational publications, which are invested by publishers and earning from them, without sharing any of their financial profits with publishers. This is really important because a framework is being created that will allow for a significantly weaker or less represented party in these negotiations to secure a certain fee. According to the current legal arrangement, it was not specified or clearly prescribed the responsibility of the provider by sharing content via the Internet, for the content transmitted through their platforms, stored and shared by introducing changes in this area by means of this law in such a way as to clearly prescribe the responsibility of the provider of content sharing via the Internet for protected content transmitted, stored and shared through their platforms. And the consequence of this responsibility is the obligation to require such authorisation to use protected content from the rightholder. to enter into licensing contracts for the purpose of public communication or public action available to the public, and to ensure that rightholders receive adequate compensation for the use of works or other subjects of protection via the Internet or to prevent the unauthorised use of such content. This law also introduces provisions which provide assumptions for fair compensation to the authors of contracts which... enter their rights to use their works or other subjects of protection, as well as provisions which provide for more detailed matters relating to contracts concluded for the creation and use of copyright works and other protection matters in certain specific areas. Moreover, since the proposed law facilitates the licensing of copyright and related rights for works and other protection matters contained in the broadcasting of certain types of television and radio programmes, for example, By prescribing the application of the principle of origin to accompanying Internet services, as well as by extending the compulsory collective exercise of rights to all types of programme replay, and by prescribing clear rules where the transmission of software signals is carried out by means of a technical process of direct flow. We expect that, as a consequence of the introduction of these new solutions, it will facilitate the spread in EU Member States, national television and radio programmes, as well as greater availability in Croatia, television and radio programmes originating from other Member States, which contributes to cultural and media diversity. Furthermore, the more detailed regulation of the copyright created in the work relationship will result in greater legal certainty for both employers and for the author who created the author's work by fulfilling his obligations under the contract of work or under the instructions of the employer. Greater legal certainty is the consequence that will also take place with regard to clearer and more detailed regulation of copyright works created in the state or public service, copyright works created at public high schools in scientific, artistic and teaching work. Then the copyright of students in the works they created in higher schools, etc. We believe that the more precise regulation of the conditions for the exercise of the activity of independent management entities which, as well as collective rights organisations, carry out the collective exercise of copyright and related rights will contribute to greater transparency in their business and the overall effectiveness of the collective exercise of copyright and related rights system in the Republic of Croatia. More detailed arrangements on the scope of copyrights and related rights that are collectively exercised will contribute to safer and greater security for users of copyrights and rights holders. I might also mention in this opening section because this was the case on the committees on the proposal that regulates the existing open copyright issues regarding audiovisual works that were found in the archives of HRT, which were created before 1990. I would also point out in this opening argument that thanks to a very interesting debate in the first reading as well as the two thematic sessions of the board of directors that took place between the two readings, we have further completed certain parts of the law, and I thank you for all the proposals. As I said in the introduction, this law somehow imported a whole series of small collective agreements in which it was never possible to satisfy all sides, so in recent days and weeks a whole series of stakeholders advocated both publicly and through the media and various statements of their particular views. We have taken all these views and positions into account, in particular, I refer to the dispute between the discographer and the phonogram manufacturer and the performer and certain press demands in relation to the publishers of information publications. However, I am truly convinced that here in the second reading we have proposed a good, whole law that has respected these different interests which offers very good compromise solutions with which those who have been in a weaker position will strengthen that position. Those who may have been in a stronger position will not lose so much as to question their business, but with which we achieve the key objective of this law, which is that in the whole of the Croatian cultural and creative industry, or all those who create works that are protected by copyright or related rights, they are in a more secure position to be able to achieve their rights on the digital market, protect their copyrights, and then when they are monetized for such monetisation they receive a fair fee. Unfortunately, at this point in time with the applicable law, this is not the case, and therefore I am convinced that by passing this law, all those who create copyright-protected content will indeed have a much better position and be in a position to make a fair compensation because many authors and other creators of such content actually live exclusively from these incomes. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59744	Here's the first replica, the respected representative of Vesna Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59745	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, as you yourself have said in the draft of this law, a working group of more than 60 stakeholders from different sectors took part, and after the first reading, a whole series of additional consultations were held concerning certain issues, but also two thematic sessions of the Media Committee. However, despite multiple consultations, no solution has somehow been found to satisfy all stakeholders and stakeholders, and they have simply remained somehow buried in their tough positions, and I therefore believe that this law is actually a compromise solution that represents one satisfactory framework for regulation of rights and obligations between different stakeholders in different sectors and without bias and without therefore investing in their mutual relations, therefore in relations between different stakeholders in different sectors. And therefore, I would like to ask your comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59746	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59747	Thank you for this replica, as I said in the introduction when you have in the negotiations of the party, no matter what negotiations it is, which insist on their positions and are not ready to reach an agreement or compromise then in this case it is the legislator who has to propose it, and you, of course, will assess as representatives and advocates whether this is a compromise solution well. As I said, we've been leading ourselves to the interest of the entire cultural and creative industry sector, and I think we've been listening to all the attitudes and all the thinking we've really offered a compromise that will ultimately be good for all the stakeholders.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59748	The next replica is the esteemed vice president of the Miroslav Škoro Assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59749	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The Honorable Minister Obuljen Koržinek, therefore the struggle between the biographer and the performer, marked it and you said it yourself. On the one hand, performers claim that they did not sign the contracts and that they do not have and receive no compensation, on the other hand the discographers claim that everything is fine, that they have contracts and that everything is in line with what should be fair. However, from Art. 306. We're reading one contradiction where you give 3. for synchronisation. There's no need for those 3rd years, if everything's okay, if there's contracts, which we're harmonising, on the other hand, if there's no contracts, if they don't get anything performers why we're giving another 3. The gratis of someone who's already on their backs, on their backs, on the talent of creative people earns enormous money and spends it the way they spend it, I'd even say it's not in the interest of music, so why 3 years, I think that's what I'm going to ask the amendment for, it should definitely be cut short.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59750	Thank you for this comment. It is true that there is a dispute or different attitudes about whether or not there are contracts. We as a ministry, and neither can the State Institute for Intellectual Property, since private legal relations cannot be brought to the courts. We have set one principle for which, because of this lack of clarification of the situation, not only did we provide for regulation of pro futuro that has been going on since the time of the law, and that is not doubtful, but also for the potentially resilient situations that you have said well, some claim exist, others say they do not exist, given, in our opinion, that in fact no one can assess the number of contracts, how many heirs to the right, and therefore the proposed deadline of 3 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59751	The next replica, the esteemed representative, Davor Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59752	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, Your Honor. Minister. The Constitution states that the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the national authorities and bodies which have public authority may not have a return effect, or only for the specific reasons of certain provisions of the law, may have this so-called. return action. In this case we see, of course, I'm going to talk about music again on the Internet, one side is asking for a 3rd-year cut. at 6 months, one asks for the full abolition of 6th century, but I will still ask you how you will defend this article of the law in the event that, after its adoption, there is an assessment of the constitutionality, or that it potentially produces certain lawsuits, are you simply afraid that this will fall, the reverse effect of the law?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59753	In view of the involvement of a large number of experts, the legal experts involved in making this legal text and who have completely removed allegations of possible retroactiveness, I am sure that if there is such a complaint that we will very easily defend this concept, but of course it is legitimately right for everyone to ask questions. Here is the key, so let's talk about a legal instrument that is not unknown in our legislation that at the moment you set up a regime, and especially here we're talking about rights, private rights, then you're giving a deadline to possibly disagree with such a norm. I believe it will go easily and smoothly.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59754	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Anka Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59755	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Dear Minister, it's rare that the law has caused as much lobbying as this law, which I think is usually good is that people get involved and hear all the options and all the variations and try to bring the best possible solution. What caused and what the predecessors had already said in replicas was the relationship between the two sides. One party claims there are contracts, the other party claims there are no contracts. I'm wondering if the ministry has any knowledge of whether there have been certain lawsuits in those contracts so far, certain in general about the contract that the two sides have been conflicting, that we have some experience because what I asked and said well, but so far what was the problem in those contracts I haven't been able to get an answer, maybe you have some knowledge when you've already been doing the law maybe you've been based on it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59756	Thank you, ma'am. MPs. As I said, so we have no way to determine therefore whether or not there are contracts. I would stay here on the principle, so today's economy of placing or distributing music content on the Internet is such that a discographer negotiates with a third in such a way that if I can say so he has both his rights and the rights of the author and performer and performs towards the third as if that right had been regulated, nor would I wish to claim that he does or does not. We here set the standard of how these rights must be regulated, if they are better arranged, if they are not arranged, there is a deadline within which to comply with this norm that regulates that contracts must be written.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59757	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ante Pracachin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59758	The Honorable Mr. Chairman and the Honorable Minister. Why didn't you take the amendments to the law to protect the users of the works? Our Croats, especially those who are being harassed by a special ZAMP agency over which there is virtually no social control. Do you think it's okay for them to charge the monthly rent of 32,000 kuna today, and tomorrow, 8,000 kn, it's a nearly 20-year-old thing and can it actually be that kind of money, because as far as I've heard 35 to 40 million kuna is taken annually, can such money be taken from the citizens of Croatia with weak or no social control? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59759	Thank you, Mr. Representative. First of all, these aren't changes, this is a new law. Secondly, that entrepreneurs pay compensation, but they don't pay any harrass, but they pay those entrepreneurs who live from creating that content, that's their only income, the only income. So artists, musicians, and others live on their copyrights, or on their performance rights, other rights they do not have. And if anyone uses that content he has to pay for it. The amount of these fees, given that the issue covered by collective negotiations and on private rights, the amount of compensation, the methods of payment, the possible discounts in mutual agreements and negotiations are decided by rightholders and rightholders.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59760	The next replica, the respected representative Goran Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59761	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Ministers, one of the topics that dominated the public space between these two readings is how the law regulates the works that were created in the work relationship whether it was a private sector or a public and state sector and has often tried to compare it with the relationship of discographers, which I think is essentially both, and it doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59762	Thank you, Mr. Representative, so there has indeed been a series of disputes where due to the fact that the rights created in the work relationship, so in other words, when someone for the salary and for the employer's account creates an author's work. The law established one protection regime in the event that an employee and employer did not agree otherwise, however, the explicity states that an employee and employer could in any case agree differently. Since they have responded to this a lot, journalists should say that the Explicite Media Act states that work contracts for journalists should also regulate copyrights. So this article is gonna create one legal certainty, and anyone who wants to can do something different with a special contract.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59763	The next replica is the respected representative Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59764	Mr President, I hope you have the correct and complete list of lawyers and legal professionals by name and last name who guaranteed that everything is fine with this law in order to show that they were wrong to know whose legal advice they should no longer respect. Therefore, this law does not establish a fair balance between publishers or discographers and performers, but the biggest problem is that it introduces this seemingly retroactiveity and does not transpose the directive as necessary. Therefore, the directive says that it is not applicable and does not question the acts and rights acquired before 7 June 2021, and our disputed article reads this, so if no new contracts between the discographer and the performer are concluded within 3 years of the date of entry into force of the law, the rights of the performer will be considered collectively. So you deny contracts that are concluded, deny acquired rights on the basis of the fees paid and that is unconstitutional. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59765	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59766	Thank you for your comment, replicas, of course you, especially as a lawyer, can have your opinion on it, but I am surprised that this article is related to the directive, it does not concern the directive. So read a little bit better Article 306, so it really has nothing to do with the deadlines set out in the directive or the directive. It is in the spirit of the directive in a way to advocate fair compensation for performers and to identify performers as the weak side of this relationship. However, this article does not refer to the transposition of the directive.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59767	The next replica, the respected representative Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59768	Good afternoon. This is how you said in your statement that you have respected a series of remarks, but the Association for the Protection of Journalists, the Journalists' Union, the Croatian Journalist Society has proposed some changes from the very beginning and most of these changes have not been accepted. The biggest problem is for employers, media owners, to place producers in an unacceptablely privileged position compared to workers. In a legal sense, it does not make any sense for the copyright to be automatically on the secondary holder to mean the employer, not the primary author, which allows, for example, Article 93(1), Article 100(2). 400 years ago, Shakespeare had the right to his sonnets, so he was selling them so he was getting at least some fee for it, and here in these articles, automatically, if it is not a different contract, it is believed that an audiovisual producer acquires all property rights, the employer is considered to acquire exclusive copyright rights for the exploitation of the author's work, etc., without a spatial time limit.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59769	Thank you. I think I've answered before, so first of all it's not true that the big change, the large number of objections not accepted, it just doesn't stand. Just like it's not true that producers are put in a better position. I was just quoting from the press that the Media Law very clearly states that working contracts should regulate the copyright of journalists. On the contrary, this law, in relation to journalistic works, was first defined as authorial works, explicitly stated the obligation to provide references for both the publisher and the journalist and the conditions were created, unlike now that journalists from such used, digitally used content did not make any revenue, that such a solution actually for the first time since the digital use of their works would receive some compensation.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59770	The next replica, the respected representative Damir Bakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59771	I have a very principled question, and I'm going to say right now that I'm aware that it's probably not quite easy to answer it this quickly, but I'd like to hear your comment. So it's in art. 18. In the first sentence, it is said "the subject of copyright is expressions, not ideas, methods of work or mathematical concepts as such", it is now clear that methods and procedures cannot be the subject of copyright work. I understand that it's clear that it can't be a computer or mathematically programmed content, but isn't it too much of angro to rule out an entire discipline and only one. And in reality, mathematicians when they write scientific papers very often and very much introduce new concepts and these are the works of a couple of excellences. I'll tell you from personal experience, I was in a few situations when I published articles, especially in America and in the Anglo-Saxon world conveyed some of my copyrights to the publisher. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59772	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59773	Thank you, Mr. Representative. Entering really into the details of how we're going to conceptively surround a particular scientific area for which I'm not professionally superior to my competences. What I'm going to say in principle is that in this source part of the law, most concepts stem from not only a number of European directives but also a number of international conventions, it's something that I didn't initially mention and all of these principle or actual exceptions or special treatments were individual regimes of applying copyright or certain disciplines or areas actually mostly stem from such internationally accepted documents and conventions, but I don't feel competent to enter into an explanation why it is with mathematics.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59774	Next replica honoured representative Marija Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59775	My question will refer to journalistic work and their authorial work and will be part of it. Today we have witnessed an incredible case, precedent as far as we all know where one portal is limited and prioritized in future work or writing about some institutions. We've seen your media abuse, but I'm interested in you being the official media protector because they're part of the executive government in your domain, will you take any concrete action to protect them? And the second question, it refers to this part of the authorship and journalists as authors. You say their position is now stronger than ever, in this law only on the basis of an article. You can tell in 100 that's not true. If a strong person is then someone who is a publisher cannot treat his work as having no author or use it without any restrictions.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59776	Thank you for this replica. I must assure you, therefore, this thesis that you mentioned does not come from the Law of Copyright which is here before us nor is it possible to withdraw analogy with this case that I made a statement about this morning, and it has very clearly been fenced from it, it has nothing to do with the Media Law, so here it is somehow trying to put under one denominator of things that are completely different. The measurement of what the question here was about would be in relation to the authorial work created in the working relationship, all other issues related to what extent the editor or any other editing text or publication or any printing material is governed by the Media Act, so I don't think it would be good to mix things that aren't needed and can't be mixed.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59777	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59778	Art. The 238th demeaning of the parliamentary representative, so the minister said this had nothing to do with the metrics or what's on the agenda today, has something to do with it. One thing is actual, and it refers in general to the creation of an authorial work and the way this work survives, which is today's case. Secondly, I also quoted to you a specific provision of this law that makes it impossible for the authors to practice the material rights arising from their work because it transfers them to publishers without time and other restrictions.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59779	This was a replica, not a violation of the Rules of Procedure. You're getting a warning. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Urša Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59780	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honors Minister. Reading this very complex and complicated law can easily reveal that you have represented almost all the occupations to say so from artistic cultural production, but somehow you forgot the actors. The actors are also audiovisual performers, they almost have no rights under this law, and those who eventually have so little that it is not worth it or achieved it. Excuse me, but I'm going to ask you a very emotional question. Why doesn't the Ministry of Culture like actors? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59781	Thank you, Madam Representative. We love actors very much. That's how I understand your intervention. It is not true that this law does not respect the status of actors, what I have spoken more about both in the first reading and on the board, I may have missed it today in my opening words to stress that the regime of copyright protection and the way of exploiting and protection systems that are largely dependent on specific markets within certain segments of cultural and creative industries or cultures in general, and in this sense some primarily exercise their rights in one way while in another system primary rights are primarily exercised in another way. This has to do with largely whether the primary sale of tickets or only the rights of exploitation is a monetization for the performance of certain works. So, in short, we can't compare those things that are incomparable, but we really appreciate the actors both their rights and their... [[The speakers speak at the same time, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59782	Next replica, respected representative Nino Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59783	Dear Minister, I'm going to ask a target question that concerns the very possibility of Croatian citizens watching this debate. In particular, 4 public rtv service program, which would be normal for it to transfer to the Assembly session as long as it continues to complete the transfer in 2 hours. If memory serves me well now is on Deutsche Welle's schedule, check-in some German program that has no direct connection with Croatian citizens so that these important discussions, which is this one, and even more important and hot, will be the next one we will discuss obviously in the small hours of the night, it will take place far from the eyes of Croatian citizens. We also see that some of the contributions produced by HRT itself are broadcast at 4 a.m., in small hours. Do you think that's okay and that the 4 HRT programmes should be carried on a continuous basis by the assembly sessions?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59784	Thank you, Mr. Representative, I don't see any connection between this issue of yours and the law that I represent right now. About what or shouldn't you show in what term HRT decides independently the programme management of whatever, and you here as representatives when they come to the meeting their reports can ask all questions, including this question. I really don't have any ambitions either, I don't think that in a democratic country at all, at a minister or a minister of any kind, and especially one who's in charge of the media field to deal with what he's going to do when he shows up on the program. As far as this last comment goes, I'm guessing it refers to a show that wasn't shown the moment the president of the state in New York was giving a speech in front of the main assembly. As you know, this show is about that, HRT said everything, and they broadcast it yesterday in an appropriate time, so I think that subject is closed, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59785	Next replica, respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59786	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, here's one thing I'm going to say is a question of life, we all live in this world digitally, we have different situations. And here I am now interested in you telling me what's going on with our statuses let's say on social networks that are properly transmitted to, say, on the portal there are authorial works of journalists, etc., so they use everything we do ourselves, and we're not authors because we're not in any business relationship with who we are and then we're sharing it neatly and we're not asking anyone. We're all willing to do this or comment, text, do whatever we want. Whether it even belongs to this law, does that mean freely that any status on the social network of any kind becomes the breaking news of any portal and thus spreads further without asking the author if we can do it, should we not do it? Or say here's the Internet TV of the Croatian Parliament neatly conveys this debate and every debate, there are chopping up certain clips of whether politicians then misused copyright or when they made one clip and did what they wanted him to do whether the next one he takes is threatened by his copyright and something's wrong. [[Intruder: Time.]] Here, just so we know.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59787	Thank you, this second part of the question can be brought under that debate about mimes that were quite relevant at the time of the adoption of the directive on whether or not it can be or in a funny way, sometimes manipulatively untrue, but manipulate other people's content, so while it is in some public sphere, we can really consider it a past. As far as publishing content on social networks is concerned, anyone who opens a portal on a social network may be unaware of what it all fits in terms of these content they produce, shares, and in the sense of doing so in some way sharing numerous personal data. People agree to that by their own free will and there is no law that can limit it. If someone is not satisfied that such a created content is so free of charge, then they must find another medium where they will publish it, and it is certainly not a social network that has made sure that everything that is divided can be shared without any restrictions.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59788	Thank you, Minister. We're done with the replicas. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, then I'm opening a debate. We have a discussion by clubs, the first club of representatives of Croatian sovereigns, the Honorable Vice-President of the Miroslav Škoro Assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59789	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I spoke here yesterday about digital content so they told me at home that it was too complicated, so I'm going to try to speak very simply today if someone will listen and understand me, but I'm sure you will. So, when it comes to this law in the middle, I think we can conclude that the hills were shaking and the mouse was born after all. I am saying this because, of course, I did not expect now that we as British will now form a commission, so we will have 150 pages of some text on the impact of streaming, digitalism, information on Croatian music, on Croatian musicians and will come to the conclusion that they have come to. And they have come to the conclusion that times have changed and that the money supplied in the music industry should be shared differently between the discographers and the performers at least 50. And I won't represent just one page for the simple reason that you often honor me speaking to me as an author, as a performer, as a discographer, as a doctor. And a politician, I don't know what to say, however, I'm going to speak as a man who, unlike many in this assembly, may have signed a contract countless times. Countless publishing contract, performance contract, license agreement, and I signed it as both author and performer, but also as a discographer. What I'm saying is that maybe it would be easier for people to understand what we're talking about when it comes to music. I wrote a song in 1989 called Don't touch my plain. I wrote the text and the music according to the law, as the musician who wrote it, as a composer, I have the right to 65% of some fee, 35% as the author of the text. Then Jerry and I shot that song in our little studio. There was no one there but the two of us, his late parents were walking up there, so we waited and lurked the moment when they didn't walk too hard so they wouldn't squeak on the tape. And then I brought it to the former Southton and they told me that there was no smart stuff or songs, but here, fate wanted it so bad that it became very popular, and in 1992, I received a contract in front of me where no internet rights were mentioned, no format changes were mentioned at all. It's not in the contract, I'm responsible for telling you because I signed it, I can bring it to you, I've looked at it one more time. I got it. I'm a nerd, so I'm a keeper. But also, I was generously offered that after I wrote the music, the text, filmed it, I did it to get 6%. No less or less. Imagine any job you're going to do right now and someone offering you 6%. So to keep 94% to himself, from paying the authors about 11%, and we never know one fundamental thing about these contracts, which is the basis for calculating it. Is that, as they say, a performance base, is that a wholesale base, is that retail, so is that a performance base reduced by the cost of equipment, plus, I don't know, reserve? That's all the stuff that's in those ridiculous contracts. And I spent my whole life trying my fellow musicians and myself because it's not barking a dog for a village but for itself, so it's to ensure a normal life from what I do. I've got a lot of actor friends. I've got a lot of press friends. They're not happy with what we did either. What you've done and offered us. The impression is that you were still protecting those sleeping on the upper bed, and the aim is to protect the position of the weaker contracting party. That's the goal. And just before I might be more specific about it all together, I'm going to read something from that dissertation where I wrote it four years ago, and four years ago, and I took it out here, so this is, like, some kind of scheme, you know, IFTI's been betraying it every year, I've had since they showed up. So this is in the last ten years the structure of revenue from digitalism, of music. In 1999, when Napster appeared, it fell all together with 23.8 billion, it fell to the incredible, last year, 4.2 billion dollars in the world. That's true, and only in 2004 are they shy, so 14, 15 years after Napster, some kind of digital rights appear. So in 2004 that would now be an incredible $13.4 billion, however, and today the music industry has not come to value since 1999, we have... So that's it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But these money stands, earns, and here's what I wrote in my own time. I say this, I quote myself now, look at this, what the music industry stakeholders didn't understand in a traditional and relatively simple system, has become even more complicated by the appearance of today's increasingly present digitization. So you're going to have a hard time explaining immaterial property to a man. This is a brick, this is a loudspeaker, this is a house I don't know, but immaterial property. It's like an idea to you. As a bird, however, it is property. And it's easy to prove that he has all the rights as well as any other material property. So, a ray of hope and light at the end of the tunnel, many saw on the Internet, in an equality that he had promised at the outset. It seemed possible to exercise greater control over their work, their songs, their videos, and their own promotion. It seemed that so many mediators would disappear between artists and users, so the revolution seemed to occur, and evolution occurred. Before me and my user there was only a discographer, there was no telecommunications company, I only used it when I went to tell my late mom that I had betrayed the record. Today without a telecommunications company, without an IT provider, without mentioning the DTK network we built, you can't be in space at all. Now aggregaters, digital services have emerged, so countless are situations where evolution and the fact that there are now very many stakeholders, and that music creators are basically getting the least money in the whole story. Not to mention the complete non-transparentity of the contract and the way certain fees belonging to Croatian musicians are accounted for. To demystify one more thing, when someone says, and they're threatening us, this is the ruin of the music industry. People, the music industry is something that's different from the record industry. The music industry existed before the record industry. The music industry became, when four people took some instruments and hundreds of years ago went, played something, delivered music to him. It's an experience industry, it delivered me a favor. And it was the music industry that changed by the appearance of the notation. Which changed at the very moment that Gutenberg invented the press. Because Mozart no longer had to leave Salzburg somewhere to perform his work was enough to print, send a partition, and it is done in Vienna. It was only when Edison realized that you could turn the vibration of voice into some kind of electronic record, that music industry into a production hall, get some kind of record, and then we treat it as a product that this, this, is the result of human work, and that's why the record industry became part of the music industry, so our music became a product. But now we're back in time when it changes, we're back in service. We're back in service and the biographies are the ones we de facto don't need anymore. We only need them when it comes to the B catalogue. What's footage from some of the old times. And then it's still said that this music industry is going down, no, it's not going down. In fact, she has a chance to grow, she has a chance to develop, but you have to give her that chance, you can't do it with a law like this that keeps people from getting their money based on the fact that we're going to question some contracts. Who are we gonna sign the contracts with? So you yourself know that by 1993 the catalog available to Croatia Records does not belong to them, but belongs to the state. Who's going to revise those contracts, and who's going to sign those contracts? Whether the Republic of Croatia who is formally the owner of this or Croatia Records, which it de facto is still using on the basis of a court ruling, does not have the right to do so. Time is short, I just want to say that what's really important to me is the fact that there's still a little bit of numbers to support what I've been saying. If the biographers claim that big money is invested in authors and performers, I will tell you that Croatia Records, it is available data, has come from the rights and digital distribution of 16 million kunas in 2019, 26 million kunas in total, of which only 2.1 million kuna has given to performers fees and 2.3 million kunas in phonograms. It is more worth being in the biographical cleaning industry in the record company than the Croatian performer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59790	Next is a debate on behalf of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives, the respected representative Damir Bakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59791	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. We welcome the inclusion of journalistic works in the list of copyright works. 14th century 2. We also welcome the inclusion of a new indent in the same article which now lists other types of intellectual products that have an individual character, which opens up space with artistic performances and similar works, I suppose. We also support the exemption of heritage institutions from paying public fees for the publication of folk literary and artistic works. We also welcome the permission of public lending of information publications. And now here are our remarks and suggestions. First, we suggest that you re-enlist. 17th century 4 exemptions from the right of the author to challenge the inaccessibility status on the market, those works published in a broader publication for academic purposes. In the light of the Final Proposal of the Law, it is said on page 250 that this exemption would be contrary to the Article. 8th century 4 of the Directive, however, is precisely Article 5 of the same article and allows the Directive to make the exception proposed. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 95 determines that the main co-author, other co-authors and contributors have the right to terminate the contract with the reservation of the right to compensation, if the producer of the audio-visual work has not completed the work within 5 years of the signing of the contract or has not notified it to the public within 2 years of the completion of the work. That's what we support. But we also suggest that this right be extended to artists and performers, so actors, because they too have spent their time and invested their skills and efforts in the creation of this work. We do not agree with the provision of Art. 2. 100 which gives the employer and without the author’s approval exclusive property rights to exploit the copyright created in a work relationship, without a spatial and time limit, even in the event of termination of the working relationship for which the work has taken place. In particular, we are opposed to the provisions of Art. 3. A 100 that empowers the employer to process the work created in a working relationship because, according to the article, the employer is believed to have acquired that right of processing by the very existence of a working relationship. It obviously opens the space, on the one hand censorship, on the other hand manipulating the author's views. Art. 26 speaks of the moral rights of the author, which are the author’s personal and spiritual relationships with his work. If someone processes the work of the author without his express consent, these connections may, in part or in whole, cease or be violated or imposed or... We do not agree either, nor with Article 4 of the same article. 100 where the employer is given the right, i.e. it is considered that it has received the author's approval to complete an unfinished work whose creation started in a working relationship, in case the working relationship ceases before the completion of the work. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] Such employer's right should be governed by a special agreement. We propose to be in section 2. 183 ‘technical devices’ are replaced by the term ‘tonic and visual recording devices’. That's what we get in line with. 184, and anyway in this context, technical devices are too abstract and no content. That's what we're actually harmonising with where it's on the page. 248 said that the expression, quote, a tone and visual recording device, that this expression also covers smartphones. So that's what I'm talking about. 183, we need to classify sound and visual recording devices in order to cover smart phones. Furthermore, in the whole of Article 187 the term “scientist organization” is better replaced by the term “research organisations”, as this is broader and includes apart from scientific research and artistic research. This is certainly better and more in the spirit of this Law, especially when spoken for example. about universities because they also have art academys dealing with art research. And it seems to me to be in line with the Croatian translation of the directive that we are talking about 790/2019. Article 149 requires the exercise of the right of performer artists to make a real choice between options to ensure their rights individually and collectively. Explicate it right. Furthermore, in the same Article 149, it is necessary equally explicitly to specify what the components of the contract between the artist and the phonogram manufacturer are necessary. Finally, in the same Article 149, it is also necessary to indicate that the compensation incurred by the phonogram manufacturer by the information society service provider in the same parts belongs to all artists on the one hand and to the phonogram manufacturer on the other hand. Similarly, Article 240 of Article 15 should explicitly state that the compensation which the artist performs is collectively divided into two equal parts where the collective exercise of the rights organisation needs to determine the proportions of compensation for the main and the accompanying performers. And finally Articles 301 to 304. Article 303 determines that all rights to audiovisual material created before 1990, which is located in the archives of Croatian Television, on which the audiovisual producer did not submit evidence in time and in such a way as to describe Article 302 so that all this audiovisual material belongs to Croatian broadcasting. This is not only controversial, but we believe and we think, we're convinced it's very bad for a number of reasons. First of all, to mention the way the producer submits evidence of rights is actually not correctly defined. But the other one is much more important. There is no reason why Croatian Radio Television would be the reason why Croatian Radio Television would inherit cinematographic heritage. Television yes. But why cinematographic? Croatian broadcasting has no resources for the revitalisation and restoration of cinematographic works, which is an important part of the job. Croatian broadcasting has no practice, no experience to worry about promotion and distribution of cinematographic material, especially heritage. We are all convinced that the care of cinematographic heritage should be entrusted to another institution. Finally, Article 304 speaks of re-emission fees in a completely inadequate way, as this only mentions the fee to the main co-author, while the other co-authors and artists were left out. What about writers, for example, or actors artists performers? In addition, the fact that all works were contractually covered by re-emission fees is ignored by 2010. Now Article 304 introduces a conflict with the contracts for works created in the period until 2010 and if this does not work out or we will get stuck in difficult and painful disputes, or we will avoid these disputes and that is probably even more likely and certainly more harmful. Or in an effort to avoid such disputes, we will give up the re-emission of acts created before 2010. Here are our respected colleagues and colleagues, respected ministers, colleagues and colleagues from the Ministry, who are in short our views of our club. We will submit the relevant amendments to the reasons and ask you to study these amendments and explanations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59792	Thank you. Next up, it's the Bridge Representatives' Club. Dear Representative Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59793	The Honorable Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs. The late professor and academician Zoran Kravar, a professor at the Faculty of Philosophy in the years when the more serious informative of the Philosophy began when the exams began to enroll on-line, so when this whole story of virtualization and study and evaluation began, he said that computers and information in this case let's say digitalization in organised societies increases order, and in the unedited increases mess. What was the biggest dispute in the public over this Act, and which makes us members of the Parliamentary Information Committee very much informed, and documented and reasoned both by the biographers and by the performers, it seems that the underlying problem lies precisely in the mess, the mess that preceded this epic process of digitization and the fact that soon there will be no more sound carriers, but all music will be listened online. The vast majority of young people already do so through platforms such as Spotify, Deezer and others. This change can be compared to what Walter Benjamin wrote in a remarkable essay of art during the period of technical reproduction. This happened between the two world wars with the production of, say, gramophone records or film, where something that was unique until then in time and space was the work of art whether it was a performance. Representative Škoro mentioned 4 tambours playing "Open the Women's Gate" or Maria Callas in Scala sings the Caro Nome aria from Verdi's Rigollet that is a unique moment in space and time. But now suddenly a technological opportunity has been created to record it on a record and that Maria Callas listens to an unlimited number of times in a million or 10 million copies. A whole new reality. And now it has happened technologically, in recent years de facto one next step forward, which is that there is no more audio carrier, no bearer, no bearer than that what is recorded in the study can go directly to those platforms on the Internet where you can clearly see who clicked, which is who how many times listened and it seems that this is a way to be much more transparent and much fairer then shared both compensation and money. However, there is a problem with those recordings taken earlier. And unfortunately, the situation, I'm going back to this thesis now that in organized societies, information is increasing order in an unsettled mess. It was obviously a mess with us. What we've been told by the discographers and the performers is that most of the time there was no contract. You make a deal in some studio, the musicians come, come on, you play bass, pay him one time, and that's it. However, part of these songs, in particular in this case, continues to live, distribute, and discographers charge them today on some other platforms. And it would be fair for those performers to make up for it. But how do you do that? I confess to the ministry there was a pain in the ass. The law should have been delayed by encouraging Croatian discography, creating a fair and transparent framework, and in a way that pleases both sides as much or that both sides are equally dissatisfied. I'm not sure how far that's worked out. I see that both sides are dissatisfied, but also in a conversation directly with them when they informed us on the board and around the board I do not see that they are equally satisfied. Discographers are even mentioned the possibility of moving their business out of Croatia, because they can place these online platforms with companies registered in Slovenia, for example. On the other hand, performers complained about this three-year deadline that it is too long, because it would mean that for three more years they can unauthorizedly collect what is part of it and only the discographers, and then the biographers say and look, it's maybe 180,000 contracts. It's impossible to examine everything now within half a year or a year. So, one chaos that's from before because it's been working on a word, on a black or in a gray zone for the good part, and now in the new digital reality, the problems come out. So I detect the same dissatisfaction on both sides. What and how to solve it? I'm not sure if we're talking, I understand fully the performers and their right to receive a fair fee for the author's work that is being used, and where they have contributed partly as performers if it's spinning again today. However, I am not sure how pleased it will be for the individual performers, and how much of these funds will eventually be because collective protection is foreseen to go to the contractors' associations that will then have that money. And in all this story there is one more moment to emphasize, and that is how these internet platforms like here mentioned Spotify and Deezer could at all conclude with discounted contracts and put it on their platforms as if everything was fine, and obviously it wasn't right because the contracts were not clear and clear, and this is about the old practice of the business of multinational companies, and these online giants in small, unsettled environments where they are quite well swimming in that gray and unsettled relations.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59794	Thank you very much. Mrs. Selak Rasdic will continue. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59795	We certainly don't exchange viruses, that's right. So, the Parliament must be a place and I believe that we will all agree on living and current discussions. In that spirit let me look back on what was said, or two things, before I go into the metrics. First, my question addressed to the minister, of course, that we couldn't keep quiet what happened today, and the fact that we are all witnesses of an extremely unusual court decision that makes it impossible for one medium and priori to report in the future about one institution, and all institutions as well as we know must be subject to questioning, and surely they are subject to public interest. From your media advances, however, we could read the disdain, which is the difference between the position and the opposition if we all detest each other. We can be horrified because we don't have the leverage of power, we're not executive power. You're the executive authority. If you notice that the rights of those in your jurisdiction are in some way compromised, we expect you to have a concrete sketch of how you will act. And the other current thing I want to look back on is this convenient remark, the issue of fellow Boric. I believe my colleague, Boric, that it is quite unfortunate for you from HDZ that after you managed to control public television, you have lost, at least for the time being, social networks. So it confuses you that some of us are able to produce the content that you tried to cloud, which is these parliamentary debates within at least these virtual profiles and thus bring them closer to the Croatian public. But I will remind you when you talk about manipulation of content that it would be much more useful to remind yourself of what you did, or HDZ's Internet Troll Brigade 2014 and 2015, and what revealed to us USKOK's research when you directly influenced presidential or parliamentary campaigns with different negatively invented comments on social networks, or popularly referred to as "trolling". When we talk about the metrics, I'll be brief and clear. This is where I'm going directly to advocate press copyright. We can't say that someone is a journalist and is finally recognized as an author here, if you can't see the same in legal practice. What does it mean to be an author? The author isn't some cute label that someone gave us, so let's thank Mom, here mom, until yesterday I was an unemployed journalist, and today I'm Mr. Author. The author means that I will be able to implement these rights in practice, and in practice this means that neither publisher nor any other entity will be upon me in the sense that what they produce during the time I am under it and after that becomes directly his property, that he has all the material rights to exploit that same act, which is explicitly stated by this Law. And not just for the press, I'm going to stand up for architects and computer game makers, all those who are in a subordinate position to those who are more powerful than the ones whose employees are. Author, I'll repeat, it's not a cute label to brag about my parents. The authors are interested in being the author so that their status is materialized specifically, in their rights. And then we will be able to talk about both the seriously decorated state and the quality of journalism and, consequently, about the positive democratic processes in this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59796	Thank you very much. You can leave. Here you are, Mr. Boric, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59797	Thank you very much, Vice President. 238., my colleague Selak demeans me as a person because I used my replica of the minister in a completely different form and direction that I wanted to achieve, and when he talks about what the courts should do so as to impute that the executive authority should order the courts what to do, these are the positions of the Mosta, and when it comes to censorship on HRT, I will just say, I did not create HRT, but the Rasudiæ family and they came to the Assembly in this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59798	Okay. I didn't notice any disrespect, and this other one was a replica. Yes, a reminder, yes. - Mrs. Crescent. Selak Rasudic, do you insist? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59799	Art. 238, demeaning parliamentary deputies with very inappropriate insinuations. The executive power, fellow Boric, may not know what it is doing because you have not yet succeeded in spite of your winning standing in such specific positions, must be taken up for the rights of those in its domain. This does not mean to intervene in courts, it means to worry that such interventions do not occur at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59800	Thank you. Thank you. It was a replica, I have to give you a warning, and I warned you, I asked you to insist, it's a second violation of the Rules of Procedure. What? Warning, pardon, and violation of the Rules of Procedure, that is, notice. And for that there is this one, so I would ask you not to speak unless I give my word, not because I am giving it to myself in importance, but because it says in the Rules of Procedure. - Mrs. Crescent. Dragana Jeckov will speak in front of the SDSS Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59801	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President of HS, Your Honor. Ministers with associates. We have already heard that the final proposal of the Law on Copyright and Related Rights is before us, and I dare say that for a long time a law that we can say is that at first glance and there is no political sound, yet it has caused certain media attention, and I only say that by remembering how it was when we had the debate in the first reading of this Law, and we have rarely been able to read and hear the conflicting views of the proposal itself. One argues that the law is completely contrary to the Constitution and the directive, with EU legislation, and the other will say that it will finally regulate this area in the right way and find a balance. All of this has been witnessed by more than 9 hundred pages of material for this debate and is not necessarily mentioned that the current law of 2003 has been in force and since then, of course, drastically changed, so the law, regardless of several amendments and additions, has indeed gone out of date and has not covered many things. Let's say youtube and Facebook don't practically exist at this time, and today the action of the same through the same, constant and direct influence on copyright and related rights. In the world's famous declaration as a global village without strictly established borders, however, in today's digital era, copyright should have certain reserves and should be clearly defined and done as clear as possible and unequivocally established. The rules that will be introduced at the same time, therefore introduce some order on the one hand, and on the other hand it will not negatively affect rights and freedoms, as well as their development. Copyright and his related rights have long earned a new regulation, and therefore we should not speculate, there is no dilemma. But the question is, how do you find the balance I already mentioned? Therefore, the main objective of this Law is to modernise the national system of copyright protection and related rights in accordance with the Regulation and hence the needs of modern digital society, or the development of an appropriate legal framework of the European Union. Special attention is paid to the arrangement of the relationship between phonograms and phonogram producers and performer artists. A compromise solution is proposed which recognises the weaker position of the performer than the discographers while respecting contractual freedoms. If no contract has been signed between the manufacturer of phonograms and artist performers on the internet, the rights of the artist performers shall be considered collectively. It is also an obligation to adapt already concluded contracts between the performer and the phonogram manufacturer during a period of 3 years which was somewhat more and more specifically spoken by the vice president of the Croatian Parliament. We have heard that there is finally more appropriate and detailed regulation of the issue of copyright works created in a working relationship with the state or public service. Contracts on the creation of copyright works by order, contracts on the creation and use of copyright works and other subjects of protection in certain specific areas, and therefore the infringement provisions are now being improved, special questions on Croatian audiovisual works in the archive, etc. However, there are certainly people who can talk more about this topic, but I have a feeling that we as a state must find a clear and good balance and all in order not to let us say that domestic music publishers leave Croatia or digital music services continue their business in some other countries of the European Union. This problem is also possible from another perspective, but from a state perspective, there is a risk of tax revenue cuts in case such situations become a practice especially when we know that the contribution to the economy before the Covid crisis was 4.6% total and employment and 6.3% in GDP when we talk about the cultural and creative industry. However, we continue to read in the media the totally conflicting views of the highly satisfied and particularly dissatisfied with the text of the law, for example, the journalistic profession which considers the law to be lacking in the section relating to the status of journalists and journalistic works. All this is saying that we may still be late for implementing European regulations. We still have not reached a compromise or seem to have made a good balance, so of course the question is what will finally be, what will be the application of this Law. Furthermore, 315 articles definitely of this Law are definitely not small and therefore it is a comprehensive and complicated law which will not be easy to implement and the proposal will be an intensive monitoring of the implementation of this law and, consequently, to correct any problems and shortcomings in practice. This task in such a dynamic time and the rapid development of technology will not be easy at all. It will require a lot of work and balance between different interests, as technologies, as we know, are developing faster and faster. We can even talk about technological leaps, and it's up to the promoter to follow it all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59802	Thank you, too. Mrs. Anka Mrak Taritash will present the views of the Club of Representatives of the Centre and the Voice on this Act. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59803	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. I must admit that no matter how much I tried to remember, I couldn't remember any law that caused as much lobbying as this Law. A lot of individuals, groups, organizations, companies needed to tell us about this proposal. We got e-mails, memos, phone calls, requests for meetings, and I think it's an experience that all MPs can testify to, and that's good. And it's good that law-making challenges the storm, and it's good, and I think that otherwise other laws should make it look that way no matter what we say this as an exception, because it pops up from the usual, but it seems to me that other laws should. But such an interest tells us that we must be careful because here, this bill clearly touches different serious interests that are often and conflicting with each other. In such cases, it should also be particularly cautious as a legislator to protect the interests of as many citizens as possible, regardless of who it deprives, but of course it should primarily protect the interests of the state. And the public debate itself, which has been printed and occupied by hundreds and hundreds of pages, has confirmed that it is a huge interest in this Law and what is being arranged by it. When you take a closer look at these various suggestions, they generally come down to the fundamental question in any business relationship whether people are just and on time paid for their work. Here, given that it is copyright, it is also important to take advantage of a certain piece of work. Of course, what attracts the public's attention are all these new platforms that, since the law was still in force in 2003, they didn't even exist, they didn't exist. Various variants of Internet and social networks, with an emphasis on companies that have in the meantime become giants and in a relatively unregulated area of delays in legislation for real life, have packed incredible amounts of money into the exploitation and distribution of the most diverse works of authoring. There's only one piece of information that illustrates what we're talking about and why it's important to regulate these things. According to the Financial Times, Youtube controls 60% of the world's audio broadcasting, and pays only 11% of the total revenues that authors receive. And the whole idea of protecting copyright as I understand it is to preserve, encourage, and then, as a first step, adequately pay for the production of copyrights, no matter what works we talk about. And there's no magic wand, no unique solution that everyone will be pleased with. Therefore, the law needs to be closely monitored, assessed by its effects, and based on what will happen in real life, changed and improved. No single law is carved into an eternity stone, nor is a single directive or an EU regulation. One of the things that the first reading fixed was that part, the truth, that relates to architecture. So on the subject of architecture, I discussed spatial planning in the first reading. After that, I must admit, I also had meetings with the people in charge of the Resort Ministry. We had an excellent understanding of things, and in law we have improved things relating to architecture. So, so far in law, it's been a big problem and there's always a big problem between architects, between the company in which the architect works, between the contracting authorities and the end-user. All that reconciliation wasn't easy. This Act defines architectural works as copyright works and lists both sketches and studies and plastic and other presentations, designs, idea solutions, project ideas, main projects, implementation projects, plans and procedures in the area of architecture, urbanism and landscape architecture, and in this way it seems to me that the area has been covered and in relation to first reading, in this final proposal the provisions governing changes to the architectural section are set out in particular Article 115 and are complemented. This means that the procedure for the necessary changes to the architectural works resulting from the violation of the basic requirements for construction under the Construction Act is arranged. In this case, the author has the right to require that, with his name, a note be placed on the changes made and at the time when they were created or even deleted the name of the author related to the building. So, I believe that you've all met up with the fact that perhaps you've had to do something or do something on your property and then you've come into a situation that, by virtue of the Copyright Act, someone told you that you should ask the author of it and that's where you find yourself in some sort of confusion. On the other hand, I'm sure there's not a single architect who would be pleased if he were driving along the way and sees a building he designed, and there the client decided and painted in some of the most proselytic things and in some other way, and I really appreciate that the proposer among the 2 readings had the trouble to listen to the comments and advice and to install it in the Final Proposal. Otherwise, in a whole series of cases, what we have to stress has come up with new solutions compared to first reading. I generally consider it a good and commendable practice and some things improved, but I am afraid that when I tell me and when I say that I mean not only people in Croatia but in general, we have a problem with full respect for the facts of the author's work and their use. We are all inclined to forget together that making them took a lot of talent, knowledge, experience, imagination, creativity and effort, and that we cannot just use them for free. In that sense, it is good to define with this Law, but to leave room for protection and for those who are not a saying and in a way that is not set out in the law. Now, of course, the special part of lobbying was related to the whole series and emails and the memos were related to the obligation to comply with the contract on the exploitation of musical performances concluded before the entry into force of this Act and their harmonisation within 3 years. There was a problem of retroactive action, which is always a problematic situation and which, except in extreme cases, the legislator should be avoided and avoided. Let's be realistic. Come on, we listened, we had a chance to hear so-called. two opposite sides, both sides. And I have to admit that we all know together what it's been like for us so far, and it's going on, and I'm sure I'm not wrong my soul when I say that there have been cases where the contracts haven't been signed, when certainly not with all the performers who took part in some video, I'm sure they've been paid in different ways without a trace, in cash, without a contract, and it probably happened some time that they haven't been paid at all. It is obvious that this provision will cause problems in practice and only remains to see how things develop and whether there can even be ways of being written to cover the situations that will bring real life. So what will be done in the future is clearly defined by law. It's all about getting back in the past. I would love to, and I would be happy that this Law too had, as some law obligation to, that there is some deadline within which an assessment of the effects of this Law should be made. Let's be honest and say, it's really a complex matter. It's not easy to fix. It's not easy to arrange for a team more than the basic law I've been repeating has happened since 2003 as far as technology was concerned with things that were unimaginable. But why do we always cough for technology? Why are we coughing for all those cash flows? And that is why this Law should really be viewed in the context as living matter because it is indeed, which will have to be regularly evaluated, complemented, and changed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59804	Thank you, too. Mrs. Vesna Bedekovic will speak in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59805	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister, Madam Director, Secretary of State. Here, as we see before us, is the Final Proposal for a Law on Copyright and Related Rights, and I will only remind myself that here we will in fact modernise the national system of copyright protection and related rights in line with the needs of modern digital society and the development of an appropriate European legal framework, namely the legal framework of the European Union. However, the adoption of the Law will also lead to coordination with two European directives. One is the Copyright and Related Rights Directive on the Digital Single Market, and another is the Directive on the establishment of rules on the exercise of copyright and related rights applicable to certain Internet transmissions of broadcasting and re-emissioning organisations of television and radio programmes. As already pointed out in the opening statement in the drafting of this Act, more than 60 stakeholders from different sectors participated. A public debate was held. A whole series of interested stakeholders participated in the public debate. And after we accepted this proposal in our first reading in the Croatian Parliament, a whole series of consultations on certain issues were held, of course, with interested stakeholders. And I would like to remind you that two thematic meetings of the Committee on Information and Information and Media have been held in the meantime. One with discographers and performers and the other with journalists and publishers. And I will only look back on the most significant differences between the first and second readings in relation to the issues that have been raised in the debates and stakeholders, so in the additional consultations, the most controversial. We can deploy them to several areas. The first area of what was caused by my assessment the most, here is the strongest echo in the public, it is the area of contract between phonogram manufacturers and music artists. We also know that the Directive on Copyright and Related Rights in the Digital Single Market recognizes indeed a weaker position of authors and performers compared to publishers and producers and, of course, introduces some new mechanisms to strengthen the position of authors and performers compared to publishers and producers all involved in this Final Bill Proposal. Some of the mechanisms of the Directive, therefore, in order to strengthen the positions of authors and contractors embedded in this proposal, are ultimately the principle of adequate proportionate compensation, then the obligation of transparency, or the obligation for producers to regularly report to authors and contractors on the exploitation of their works and performances for which they have transferred the rights of exploitation and, of course, the incomes and fees they need to receive. Then the contract adjustment mechanism and, of course, the right to recall. I'll remind you, I've already said that in the replica, but I'll remind you again that, unfortunately, despite all the multiple additional consultations with all the interested stakeholders, there was no possible and no solution was found to satisfy all the interested parties. And so somehow these two interested parties remained in their firm positions, and therefore this Final proposal actually represents as I said myself in the replica, which is my opinion a compromise solution or framework for regulation of rights and obligations where these new solutions regulate agreements on the acquisition of rights of use of music works, performances on the Internet as a form of exploitation of musical art performances, which is the main subject of the dispute between the performer and the phonogram manufacturer. So they've been solved here in an appropriate manner and the solution has been proposed in an appropriate manner. Of course, we will give our opinion through individual debates and through the final vote on the final proposal of this Law. What was therefore the transitional provision of Article 306 states that contracts on the exploitation of musical performances of performers between artists and phonogram manufacturers must be brought into line with these provisions within 3 years. From what we've seen, it's a provision that's caused a lot of storms and a lot of riots. Equally important differences in one other area between the first and second readings are in the field of journalistic works and publishers of informational publications. Although journalistic works are like written speech or audiovisual works and have so far enjoyed copyright-legal protection whether, of course, they have met the general condition that they represent the original intellectual creation and did not represent daily news and other news that have the character of ordinary media information is whether, now the journalistic works are explicitly listed as copyright works of course important and my court improved between the first and second readings there are also in the field of audiovisual production contracts and broadcasting of audio visual works. And certainly an important area in which there has been an improvement is the area of architectural work where the provisions were naturally improved, it seems to me that my colleague Mrak Taritash before me had partly spoken on behalf of her club about this issue. There are indeed improved provisions relating to architectural works, and what I think is quite significant are the specific provisions relating to the restoration of architectural objects that are protected cultural heritage, i.e. protected cultural goods, in order to clear these issues, and then in the context of the current restoration by the earthquake of damaged architectural works. Of course, the adoption of the proposed law will provide clearer rules for the protection of copyright and related rights appropriate for application in the digital environment. Of course, these rules will achieve greater legal certainty and will certainly contribute to the sustainability of creative, cultural and media industries and certainly preserve cultural heritage, not in breach of freedom of expression and other interests of users of digital content and services. And therefore, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will support the Final Proposal for a Law on Copyright and Related Rights, and I will repeat again that we really believe that this law, therefore, represents a good framework for regulation of rights and obligations between various stakeholders in different sectors of the creative industries. This is a very, very complex law. It covers a whole range of different stakeholders, different sectors. However, the Croatian Democratic Community Club considers this law to be a good compromise between all stakeholders, a good framework for regulating mutual rights and the obligation of all of the large number of stakeholders from different sectors without, therefore, bias and without investing in mutual relations between stakeholders from different sections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59806	Thank you, too. Mrs Katarina Peovic will speak on behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party's Club of Representatives and the Workers' Front. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59807	Thank you. Good afternoon, everyone. First of all, I'd say that the authors are how we've defined them differently here, first of all, workers and workers. And their labour rights, social and economic rights must be protected. So I will comment on this law in front of the HSS and the Workers' Front Club according to the comments of these workers and workers, so from the Association for the Protection of Journalist Copyright and the Union of Journalists and the Croatian Journalist Society who have proposed amendments from the very beginning, and I will repeat these changes once again to the greatest extent not accepted, regardless of what the Minister said. And I have to agree, there I will absolutely agree with you that you have included the law of journalists, the first time really is what you said standing press works are included among the works of the authors. But everywhere else, journalists are lagging behind, and we don't have journalists in Article 1. The biggest problem other than this is the appointment that puts employers' law in an unacceptablely privileged position in relation to workers. In a legal sense, but we can even say in any other way there is no logic that copyright is automatically entitled to a secondary carrier, meaning the employer, the producer, the media owner, etc. Not the author. The law has a negative impact on the social and economic rights of authors, especially journalists and photographers. The law thus allows the publisher, the employer, the producer, the media owner to use copyright without distraction, the rights of the author. The copyright law should probably be the Copyright Act, and copyright should be the rights of the author, and as a consequence of this law, it will be the protection and status of a working relationship because many media owners will decide that they do not have the need for authors because they are holding on to the portfolio of their works, they can fire them. For this to be stated in the law, I will quote an article by article, so we have, for example, Article 93(1), which reads: “If the audiovisual production contract between the audio visual producer and the author of the contribution is not all different, it is considered that the audio visual producer is getting care now that all the property rights of exploiting the author of the contribution in the scope necessary for the purpose of the contract I have to make a small excursion and say a special attention should be directed to the literality which the legislator solves the fundamental rights of the worker openly admitting that the producer literally exploits the author. So not even his work, but he's using the author's contribution. Well, let's be all the way, so denotative. Then, however, the legislator introduced one exception in paragraph 2 and said: “Extremely from the provision of paragraph 1 of this article, the authors of the contribution retain the right to use the audio visual part on their own. So they can be used on their own, but only if it doesn't harm the rights of the audiovisual producer of that part. So in other words, the author of a part of the contribution should somehow listen to the producer's opinion whether or not that audio-visual producer will be or will not be damaged, which means whether or not the author of his own audio-visual work created by him who pays is the owner, and the one who works is completely out of work. So we can only conclude that 400 years ago Shakespeare still sells the right to use its sonnets. You know he sold his sonnets to wealthy nobles who then gave these sonnets under their name to their virgins. But this is an even worse situation, so since no compensation is required here, the authorship is therefore not understood at all in the sense that the authorship has been understood since romanticism, which means the originality of the works attributed to its author. In this law, the author has no rights, no property, no copyright, but is fully deposed of these rights. We can conclude that in the 21st century we pass a law in which copyright works created in a working relationship without a spatial and time limit, as the law says forever becomes property of the contracting authority and after the contractual relationship ceases. What journalists and media workers warn about is that this is not a common practice anywhere in Europe but not a global copyright legislation. The longest period of use of copyright is the right of authors to live, and that right is 70 years after death enjoyed by his successors. So far, the Copyright Act has been arranged to determine, among other things, whether the employer is entitled to take advantage of the copyright, and especially if it is acquired by the scope and duration of the copyright. Thus, unless a copyright in the author's work was set out otherwise, the author retains without restriction. It means Article 76. Law on copyright and related rights. Under the new law, unless otherwise specified by the employer, all property rights are acquired in the copyright created by the author. Thus, the author is placed in a subordinate position according to his part, and the employer is facilitated by the decision to cancel, since he retains all property rights over copyright. Since the majority of the work contract or contract of work contains typical provisions which do not regulate the rights after termination of the employment relationship, it is clear that the employer will, in most cases, obtain all property rights over copyright works. And when the Minister tells me it's governed by the Copyright Act, then we have to ask ourselves, so what does the Articles 93 or 100 or Article 101 in this law completely dissipate the one who did his own work. Furthermore, not only does the employer become the owner of that part, but we have an article in Article 100(2) of the Copyright Act, which reads: “If the contract of work or other act governing the working relationship or other contract concluded between the author and employer is not otherwise defined, the employer is considered to have acquired exclusive copyright rights of exploitation of the copyright created in the working relationship. And now keep an eye on the content and scope needed to achieve the activities it carries out without a spatial or time limit regardless of the termination of the working relationship during which the work has taken place. So no space, no time, no termination of a working relationship is enough to restore the work to the one who did it. It would be logical, then, that, after the employment relationship of copyright in the copyright created in the work of the author means the copyright, with the current employer and journalists, means media workers warning can naturally have the right to the championship in terms of the conclusion of an copyright contract, but the first owner must be of course the author. This law in paragraph 3 allows the employer not only to have the right to publish the work created in a work relationship, but also to process it and to translate it, thus using the composition and other part of it for the purpose of common use, and to include in the collection or database as well as that the work represents the public under the name of the employer, together with the author's name, in addition, if possible in the light of the method of use, although it is not otherwise agreed with the author of the work. So, after the author's ownership of his own watch has been taken away, even the author's appointment can be compromised and skipped if possible or if it's not possible by how you already interpret it. So, paragraph 4, and I'm going to finish there, it's further confirmed that the employer can complete the author's unfinished work without having to result in the author's approval to complete his unfinished work. So not only can the client own this work, he can process it, he can't sign it, he can do anything, the author can't do anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59808	Thank you very much. Now the Minister of Culture and Media Ms. Nina Obulen Koržinek has asked for a word on behalf of the proposing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59809	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I asked to take my word for it, because I don't think it would be a good idea for these to remain irresponsible, because this is all that you've brought out now and what's said is really amazing. After the first reading, after discussions on committees to initiate such a thesis and to claim that such a law completely dispels authors on the basis of one single article, one of more than 300 that edits what? It's real when someone's in a working relationship. So it has nothing to do with the producer, it has nothing to do with the movie. No producer to hire, ask colleague Raukar if she ever got a job contract and got a job with some producer to make a movie. They're completely incomparable categories, completely. I said on the Committee very taxicab that I agree with the position of a representative of the Association of Journalists in the sense that it is necessary to strengthen, improve the position of journalists. But what she suggests would make the status of journalists worse in the work relationship worse. So this is about when you create an author's work only when you're in a working relationship someone hired you to do it not once, but only to do it with this author's work later in the function of it and here this ex-lege is arranged only if it's not a different contract. I'll give you an example with hope that maybe then it'll be clearer. Imagine a photographer employed by the Ministry of Culture and Media working on an archaeological dig. So he's the only one here because it's his job. He takes photographs and documentes the process of archaeological excavations. We'll set up an exhibition later. We don't have any other photos. We only have his or hers. The works enter the museum's foundation, the public museum. There are no other photos. No one else was employed to be in that place. It's not a journalist who, as an independent employee with an author's contract, produced some work to monetize it later. So the person was only there with that function to do so so that it could later be used for some public function. So what do we do when that reporter or photographer fires the photos off the wall? Are we gonna do this? So who's going to hire someone if you're standing up for the rights of workers and workers? But they'll all work in a good relationship, in uncertain conditions. So that's what you're looking at me like that for now, but what you're saying would not lead to the safety of workers and workers, but rather the opposite. Who would hire a journalist if a journalist pulled all the articles he wrote by the time he quit? So what reporter would then take a journalist into a permanent working relationship or pay him some amount that he could or would take off all his portals and all his publications? So what you're saying is, first of all, not based on the text of the law. Secondly, it goes against the intensities that as many people as possible are employed to work in secure circumstances, to have contracts on work, to be protected, and you represent a situation in which everyone would probably have to work too hard on contracts, occasional, temporary, etc. So, one last thing about the press, and that's what I said on the board. The media law regulates the powers of editors. So the editor gets the text. He's adjusting it. Now I've been doing some interviews, they've said 18 thousand signs. I answered with 19 grand. The editor will cut it short. So is that something? Well, that's something that's regulated by the Media Act. It has nothing to do with this law. So I am convinced that this Law, in that key goal, will protect journalists from the use of their content by aggregaters, will be in an incomparably better position than they are now, because they are now completely but completely unprotected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59810	Thank you. Stay, stay, stay, Madam Minister, you have your replicas. Katarina Peovic is the first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59811	Well, if that's the case, then you'll accept all our amendments, because what we're looking for is to clarify that. But I'm going to answer you to these other things you've brought out. I'm certainly not for over-the-counter status in the media, nor for the over-the-counter status of journalists. But what you're setting as a horizon, and that's a horizon you can't do better. Who do you think will hire them if we set their rights so high is that horizon that exists at HDZ and that exists in our government and that we listen here every day not only about this law of yours, but absolutely all the laws and all the labour rights on absolutely every issue, which you think will hire these workers if we put their rights so high. But what has been answered by both the Press Society and the Journalists' Union, so everyone means workers in the sector is something else, and that is that it doesn't exist anywhere in Europe, not even globally.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59812	Thank you. Mr. Fabianic. Wait, wait, wait. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59813	About how our government takes care of workers, I think you can see the status and the increase in wages and everything else not to go in. But unfortunately, you're not aware that what you're proposing is not what you're trying to advocate and that's why you should read the text. I don't want to reach out, but it would really be important to read the text, take into account the situation in which journalists are completely, completely, completely unprotected today. There are generators who live from using other people's authoring work. That's what this law solves. Against that, the platforms stood up and stood up, and you don't understand, unfortunately, that I'm holding this up as to how you present it would actually benefit them and not the authors.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59814	Now really Mr. Fabianic. Excuse me, Minister... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59815	This is a very large law of respected ministers and the question of knowing such broad matter in the detailed part is pronounced, it is an impossible mission. But when we talk about a specific example, when you mentioned this, in the Ministry of Photography, I'm just going to mention one fact that we have to do a distinction between photographers and photographers, that's two trades that use the same device. It is one, another photographer if he works with the ministry de facto, and if he participates in any edition, it is the public acts of the Republic of Croatia whichever they are, which are de facto not subject to copyright. So the other thing is if we're going to make some kind of concrete example, then we'd better call on a photographer in a private I'm going to the publishing house. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59816	.../incomprehensible/... here's the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59817	I have to correct you, so any copyright work is subject to the copyright regime, and that's exactly why the law was introduced, Article 100 exactly what you just said, so whether someone is a photographer or a photographer within the meaning of this Act, it's completely irrelevant, that person can have his own exhibition tomorrow, have his own works of art, however, works of art. And then later it could happen, if it wasn't arranged with the employer, that it was this person or some heir, for what was created in a working relationship, to make it impossible to continue using it, and that's the only thing that's written in art. 100. Nothing else. My colleagues from the news society have often been working groups, all of us, not everyone who sat down explained that this wasn't an article about journalists. This is a work relationship article with a very clear the options, however, to the exceptions that are recommended. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59818	Thank you very much. - Mrs. Crescent. Ursha Raukar-Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59819	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, you have now said you understand the situation of weaker foreign journalists than performers. As I recall, that's what you said on the board the other day. Yeah, you also said that the proposal that came from a media colleague wasn't good. And I can accept that. I just want to ask you why the ministry hasn't tried to find a better proposal and protect the weaker side in negotiations with publishers? Here, that's my question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59820	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59821	I will repeat what I said to, in the Committee, so the introduction was introduced, for the first time the concept of journalistic work as an author's work, the issues of attribution for both journalists and publishers have been resolved in detail. Also, it's detailed in art. 100 explained when it can be excluded, how, and in the Media Act, it is defined that in the case of journalists, the obligation of the employer is to conclude a contract governing copyright. So of all professions that may possibly be referred to by art. 100, in reality in relation to the Media Act he least refers to journalists and, behold, only journalists continued to insist on it, regardless of how many times a colleague is on the task force
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59822	- Mrs. Crescent. Anka Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59823	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the HS, Your Honor. So here in our discussions, we have said countless times that, and you have pointed out, that this is a complex problem, that it is a conflict of different interests, that there are some opposite sides that are not as unsatisfactory in some other things but are quite dissatisfied. We have some other regulations where, at the end of the rules, it is said that within 2 years, there will be an impact assessment of that regulation. It seems to me that it should be done and for this law, there is no such thing in this law. We're going to give an amendment like that, so maybe think about actually having two years here to track you, so the executive authority is following the regulation and we have what we do is an impact assessment of the regulations, which happened in the space because, and let's see what happens and how further. No law is carved into stone, neither is this one, and it's all of us's interest to get the best solution that's more acceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59824	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59825	I agree with you that it is important to follow the implementation of the rules, we do it all the time, so this law has brought a whole series of improvements to the current law and to the part in which we do not comply with the directives. However, I will note that at the heart of what is regulated by this law, the exercise of private law and, and regimes, especially collective protection regimes, but all other exploitations are subject to constant supervision of a whole series of bodies established by this Law at the State Intellectual Property Institute, there is Director Kuterovac, who continuously monitors the application. So there are also institutions, councils of experts and arbitration and therefore all mechanisms plus the obligation to keep public reporting. So I'd say, even in relation to some other regulations, this one really has a very, very high level continuous monitoring and that's important and good. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59826	Thank you very much, ma'am. Minister. You don't have any more replicas for now. It is now up to the Club of Representatives of HSLS and Reformers, whom he will present, whose views Mr Darko Klasic will present, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59827	Thank you very much, esteemed Vice President of the Parliament. Respected ministers and co-workers, distinguished fellow MPs and MPs. This is a really large law that needs to be studied and looked at from all sides. The expansion of the Internet and Internet service since 2003, when the Law on Copyright was passed, has completely changed relations within the creative industry, but has also raised issues of the freedom limit and there has been a need for regulation on the Internet as well as better protection of authors and publishers. The new Copyright Act also implements the EU Directive on copyright and related rights in the Digital Single Market, which entered into force on 7 June 2019. The directive aims to create a single EU digital market, and that content creators, i.e. performers' authors, can in future obtain corresponding revenues from their work, i.e. all receive fair and appropriate compensation. This law seeks to make these large platforms start to contract and pay for content in the field of media products and areas of audio visual products. For individuals and citizens here nothing will actually be applied especially in Croatia, there will still be links on social networks. Citizens who unconventionally use content in the way they have used it so far will continue to do so. The thing actually only changes for the great distributors of the works. The Copyright and Related Rights Act will provide detailed arrangements for the membership of copyright works created in the state and public service and at the university. But there are also rights to compensation for the creation of copyright works in a work relationship and its exploitation. What concerns me in this law is the freedom of the media and speech, and it concerns journalists and a dangerous provision that applies to the author's work created in a working relationship where the client, without the consent of the author and his co-author work, can change and supplement and complete. That's unacceptable. Intervention is a journalistic job, which is to transmit accurate and timely information. Because the intervention of the contracting authority changes such information and does not come to the public in its original form without consulting the author. This crosses the boundaries of editing and enters the space of censorship by media owners or performers. What actually developed the most controversy in public space is the question of finding the best compromise between the performers' biographers in the fair distribution of compensations and about it was the most actual controversy. There is an unquestionably good intention by the legislator to ensure as much funding for Croatian culture and creative industry as possible. In this digital time when everyone is at risk of not making any revenue because of the interest of large digital platforms. The challenge here was obviously to ensure a fair distribution of compensation so that everyone would be satisfied. Here's a colleague of Mrak-Taritash said that we were all actually exposed to a lot of pressure and we'll call them lobbys that represent their interests and there should really be cold heads and make a law that would be a good compromise that everyone would be satisfied. The emphasis is on ensuring fair compensation, because the law will be successful if the right to a fair fee is guaranteed to all right holders. It is evident that there are major differences between biographers and performers who are directed at each other and do not exist without each other. But their disagreements have not been successfully resolved in the past 17 years, even though the legislator has called for the agreement of the stakeholders of this law to be reached, and it is obvious that it has joined the creation of a compromise law which has led to numerous criticisms from individuals and associations as well as the announcements of lawsuits. The law seeks here to regulate relations between artists, performers and bisographers after almost a decade of illegal exploitation of videos on the Internet and after court proceedings that have been initiated by each other in connection with this illegal use have been going on for many years and the question of when it will end. As Liberals, it must be the fundamental intensity of the law that all those involved in the implementation of the work can, in the future, obtain income from that work, i.e. a fair and appropriate compensation, as stated by the EU Directive, and that this does not undermine copyright and market freedom. I think it would be fair if the individual contracts didn't regulate it differently. The division of revenue from the streaming platform in relation to the discographers on the same principle as the fees now shared from broadcasting on radio and television. Freedom, the will of each performer must be clearly and unquestionably expressed as well as the conditions under which certain rights are transferred to the discographers must be clearly stated in the contract between the performer and the discographer. As regards the relationship between producers phonographs and performers, the Ministry of Culture has also proposed in law a solution that recognises performers as weak sides and defines how these contracts must look, and in this law we find it correct. We only think that a period of one year would be more appropriate to bring the contracts in line, and we believe that the proposed period of three years is an immeasurable debt. We also consider not the best solution in the law to grant all relevant powers to the Croatian Association for the Protection of Artistic Rights to HUZIP, because according to the proposal, this association should assess the validity of the contract between the performers and the discographers, while also taking all payments to performers in the event that these contracts are declared invalid in respect of copyrights achieved on digital platforms. HUZIP is usually an association that collects fees from the broadcasting of our performers in cafes, hotels. For performers, once a year distributes compensation to performers just as guaranteed for authors. In doing so, HUZIP retains the costs of exercising the right of 30%, which I also find inappropriate. It's too much to take directly from the performer. The copyright law and related rights should protect creativity in the digital age, at the same time provide for freedom and protection of copyright, which means that the obligation to pay fair fees to authors whose works there are shared. This law should bring concrete benefits to citizens, the creative sector, the media researchers, teachers, cultural heritage institutions. In the proposed law, some items are not clearly defined enough despite the legislative's best intentions, and I believe that they need to be complemented to make the law fairer and clearer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59828	You, too. Now Madam Vice-President Sabina Vosovac is on the line to represent the SDP's Club's views. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59829	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here we are again with the same theme in the second reading of the new Copyright and Related Rights Act. The fact is that this law dates back to 2003, that it has experienced a number of changes, that it has had to be harmonised these 18 years with numerous international contracts which the Republic of Croatia is also signatories to the directives of the Council of Europe, which the European Parliament is. It is also quite clear that the intensity of a new law which was not even a bit easy and was quite complex was actually caused by the adoption of Directive 2019/790 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 April 2019, where one of the essential items was, among other things, when we are actually talking about functioning in a new society where the way works, production and distribution of the exploitation of copyright and the protection of related rights has changed significantly in the context of the development of a digital information society. And the European Commission, the European Parliament, in fact, regulated in that part, decided to regulate certain interrelationships and, to the Member States, made a commitment to comply with that Directive. That deadline for harmonising our law passed at the end of the 6th month. We're three months late, but good because this whole Covida situation might be a relief to us. One of the very important assumptions of the Directive and the spirit of the Directive and there was a lot of talk about it in the first reading in this House and these two points were imposed as important points of opposition were that it means a fair and even compensation for the exploitation of music works on digital platforms. And we've talked a lot about it here in our first reading. The key points of the reluctance were precisely in relation to journalists to employers in this case publishers or publishers, and on the other hand, performers and phonogram manufacturers, what we refer to as discographers as popular in the language. And I am pleased that this is one of the few laws that has been changed between the first and second readings where, between the first and second readings, a number of MPs' remarks have been made either at the plenary session or at committee meetings. It is not often that it happens in parliamentary practice and that is what is positive. Not just that. Between the first and second readings, this whole plenary debate has actually resulted in two special, two special sessions, thematic sessions of the Committee that discussed these two burning issues that have been raised as key points of the dispute in the first reading and that is something that is good, and that is something that is commendable and that is the way to go. Now, can we be satisfied with the final proposal of the law according to the atmosphere, according to the pressures that are legitimate in any case of the various actors which this Law concerns specifically when we talk about these two points of dispute and with the application of the law itself, how will he live in reality when we bring him in and here we declare this question? However, I would like to warn here of a few of the things that I consider to be in the SDP Club continue to be an obstacle to upholding this law. We will try to intervene on it with a number of amendments and your position on our amendments will condition our support of the law. We, of course, have come from the people whose law concerns them, the people who are expert in the area itself. Now I'm going to point out a few things that are controversial to us. So it's quite clear that the SDP's club simply according to its habitat, according to the program direction, stops to protect the weaker, and there's no fear that tomorrow someone will accuse us of working for some lobby. Everyone has their own interests. We find it weaker, and they are defined by this law. These are journalists and performers are actually a weaker negotiating position and sides. It's nothing controversial, it says in this law. Now whether we have managed to achieve the protection of workers or people, whether it is the main performers or other performers, and whether they will succeed in achieving their rights to a fair and even remuneration in relation to other rights, these are the copyright and rights of the phonogram manufacturer, we cannot guarantee it. Why? Because this Law adopts one grace period or 3 years adjustment in which all contracts existing must comply with the law. So for 3 years, legal uncertainty remains for those who do not comply with the law, and this law defines clearly what this contract must contain. It must be written in writing. No more orals. And it has to contain a fair amount of creative compensation, because without creation, there's actually no work. We're talking here now about two discographers and performers conflict. Yeah, but we have to figure out without the artist's authors there's no market, and there's no job and there's no right to exploit, there's really nothing, there's no work. It all starts and can't happen like so far that many of them have zero or crumbs when we talk about the main performers. And about the other performers who are involved in the creation of an authorial work when we talk about the music work that I'm not talking about. So here, too... or logically, the question is, where is the legal protection of the performer that we're going to guarantee them by this law by the time the individual contract between him is signed as a performer and a phonogram manufacturer if it's a period of up to 3 years? How did we protect them? It's a question that this law does not offer an answer. So legal uncertainty and tolerance of such a system, even the fact that maybe some relationships are not agreed by contracts or are defined by some other forms of contracts that they deny what they belong to, is actually something that there is no answer to. Secondly, when we talk about the components of the contract, Article 149 clearly states that the contract is valid at the time when it is written and when the manufacturer of the phonogram means that this contractor is obliged to grant his work for further reproduction or exploitation to give consent to it, and the phonogram manufacturer undertakes to pay him a certain fee. However, when we look at the reasoning related to the article. 149 that follows this Act, I also warned you on the Committee, there says that the contract will be valid if it meets all the law of the defined component, however, there is no such component. I don't know what we can do in the meantime, you told me that in the first version there were defined several elements that the contract must contain, they fell out, but the argument remained so that it didn't correspond to the text of the article itself. The reason for the law isn't right. It might be better if the contracts were a little clearer, but we're just where we are. Likewise, it is definitely clear that the Republic of Croatia is actually starting from a legal assumption that there are no regulated rights on the recordings between the main performers and publishers and that the scope of the unresolved relations is quite broad because that period would not be 3 years, which is completely unclear because it assures us that most markets are regulated by contracts all the time. Therefore, it is our tendency and our tendency to adjust that deadline as quickly as possible to ensure the application of this Act, if this is not possible, that some legal protection of the performers is ensured until the moment the individual contracts are signed. If individual contracts aren't signed, then collective protection. Similarly, we are unacceptable to this relationship of defining that journalists are in a position that someone of their author's work can cultivate, change, in some way and abuse it, we can even tell it to censor it, just as we are not acceptable for journalists who are in a working relationship to, in fact, be given the opportunity through this Law to estrange their copyrights and copyrights of journalists and to challenge ownership in a way that the primary holder who is an undisputed journalist becomes a secondary owner. And what's final, so I hope you'll accept our remarks, I'll say some more things through an individual debate. I'm glad we made some moves. I hope that we can do more to protect the whole market in fact to sort it out in one way that it works according to the law and that according to the spirit of the directive, it means when the Internet and all of this is our world, when huge money is spinning in that world, that this redistribution of funds is just, just and evenly represented. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59830	Thank you, too. Now Mr. Davor Dretar will present his views on this Act, the views of the House of Homeland Movement Representatives Club. Here you go. Don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59831	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, Your Honor. Ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. It would be really wonderful if the other laws had such an intense involvement of interested stakeholders as we MPs and MPs have seen in the past few weeks. But in this extremely extensive and demanding law, I will still devote myself to only one part of it, since there is something in it, and I understand. Two, let's call them that, sides in this, we're not going to tell the dispute, we're going to disagree on some parts of this law. Let me read or quote some of the things they sent us. Some of them seem normal, some of them are spoken and quite harshly. For 8 years in Croatia, discographers have been charging for the use of songs from online services, not only for Croatian territory but also anywhere in the world, but also in a letter from the Croatian Music Union and several other related associations. Croatian music online listens, not only in Croatia but also in numerous diaspora. It is certainly among all these songs, most significantly represented and the catalogue of the former company Jugoton as the largest and most successful company from these spaces. The catalogue has never been privatised and has recently been confirmed by a powerful verdict that it has been owned by the Republic of Croatia all along, illegally exploited by a private company. It is therefore a huge responsibility of the state which and how it will take to put this great cultural but unquestionably and material value into office. It is primarily in the interest of the creative community that created this value, so authors and performers, and of course, in the interests of the state itself and the highest social community. The obvious nervousness of the discographer around this law is understandable. If through the law performs the right to a fair fee, as prescribed by the EU directive, if money redistribution in favour of creators, as well as a review of the directive, the profits and profits of the owners of discounted companies will inevitably fall. So far, a huge number of musicians have not signed a contract authorising the discographers to monetize all the videos on the Internet. In fact, all existing platforms in Croatia distribute illegal content, i.e. they act against the law. So it's about pure legal violence. Discographers have been rewarded in this Bill proposal with an additional 3 years for agreeing to the contract, so since 2003 18 years have passed, so here's another 3. To be clear, this is not a memo from a group of random people, I will just mention some of them, very well known to the Croatian public, there are Nikša Bratos, Professor Neven Franges, Zoran Katić, member of the Croatian Symphony Orchestra, Goran Karan, Professor Goran Končar, professor at the Music Academy, Sanja Dolezal, Husein Hasanfendić, Massimo Savic. I continue, the legislator's task is to provide all musicians with a fair and appropriate compensation for absolutely every use of their videos on the Internet, regardless of what it says in the individual contract of performers and discographers. It's not settled here. Over the next three years, performers cannot sue the court's discographer because, in that time, according to the Law, the process of agreeing to the contract is under way. For those who do not have any contract with biographies, the legislator did not provide for an absolutely no mechanism that would provide these people with a fair fee over the next three years. The collective exercise of rights is a model that since 2003. It works successfully in Spain. Something similar is just being introduced into Germany for so-called. user generic context. The collective exercise of rights is not a local invention, but a possible and legitimate outcome of solving the big problem facing a creative and productive music community. The EU Directive gave national legislation clear and unambiguous guidelines. I quote: "All Member States are obliged to install in their legislation mechanisms that will provide fair and appropriate compensation to all performers for any use of their videos on the Internet." But let us look at things from another perspective. The International Conference of Music Artists, an excuse from the performers of course and the association are also Croatian discographic houses and associations, say: "If the proposal of this law is adopted in this form it will significantly undermine the effective functioning of the Croatian music market, prevent future investment in music and artists as well as innovation in our industry. The introduction of mandatory collective implementation of the contractor's exclusive right to make available to the public would be a restriction of law and, as such, would not satisfy a three-step test towards the EU and international copyright law. This would be contrary to normal exploitation of the rights of performers, would endanger their freedom of decision, about how to use and license their rights." If these rules were adopted, it would also compromise the role of publishing houses and music publishers as major investors in music. Only the existence of smaller music companies would be compromised. Now, that's what we can think about here and that's what this law is trying to reconcile. Obviously, we will have to in the coming years and after these three years have expired, the effectiveness of these legal provisions begins to be well checked. However, I will remind myself once again by analysing the text and reasoning of the final proposal for copyright law and related rights, it is very difficult to find particularly justified reasons for the reverse action of the provision of Article 306(5). We're afraid, even though the Honorable Madam Minister here is very positive and optimistic, I'm afraid it won't all go so lightly. In the event, of course, even after signing or at the time of the signing of those contracts, even any constitutional action, i.e. questioning the constitutionality of the provisions of this law, shall take place within three years. As far as the Department of Homeland Movement Club is concerned, we have submitted six amendments that I sincerely ask you to consider and put them under discussion. I believe you will find in them quite a few ways that we want this law to be fixed. We don't see at all why there's a three-year deadline. If we have to give the amendment, cut it to 6 months because there is no reason to even exist anyway. So when we look at this bill, at least from this perspective, at the perspective of the music industry, the perspective of using someone's creative and creative talent, skills and skills on the Internet, we can say that the law is unarranged, that the law compromises even though sometimes for a good compromise it says that it is the one whose none of the interested parties are satisfied. Whether this is a good law or not, especially in the context of these provisions will show obvious weather, but it does seem to us that we are ready to land on a boat that we already have some sense of missing water. An explanation of why we will not support this law and, of course, some more aspects of its unsustainableness I will also speak later in the individual and final presentation, and during this debate today will be further explained by the respected colleague Prkacin. For now, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59832	Thank you, too. Mrs. Katarina Peovic is now starting with individual debates. So this is the first individual debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59833	I'm going to use it, so now I'm going to have an individual debate to answer the minister to what was her replica to me. So I was objected that article 100 is specific, and that everything that applies to journalists cannot be applied to it. This Regulation shall enter Which you claimed not to refer to journalists does not say that it does not refer to journalists. So it refers to all the authors, as well as journalists and journalists' photographers. The rights are permanently transposed in this law and that is the problem, and the directive under which this law is designed regulates the transfer of rights to two years. So there's no excuse for permanent transmission. Internet platforms are, therefore, two years old and have been published afterwards, after publication, have the duty to pay the author's fee for the consent to transfer fees. So after two years you should, so you should set up a framework of two years. Then you said further, so it's not the authors in the work relationship. So what kind of relationship will be journalists and photographers, rather than working relationships? I don't see what other relationship it should be. I don't think everyone's doomed to the preeminent working conditions. The contractual relationship, so the working relationship we're talking about is clear, I totally agree with you that it's awkward if someone, meaning posting their photos, that example you gave means in some archive at the Ministry of Culture a photographer photographing some important archaeological findings and then canceling or leaving the Ministry of Culture and what now. We're going to have a problem now whether or not that exhibition can be set up, I agree it's an awkward situation. But the author needs to be justly compensated. I mean, he's the author of these photographs, and it's his right to have a fair fee. As far as the generators are concerned, it means Google, Facebook, and others, it means that the publishers clearly want to have all the rights and then sell them the content, not just for two years as it is under the directive. But we shouldn't take that as a dominant actor. We should protect the weaker actor in this contractual relationship. So to continue, there's still a problem with this law. So, the problem is present in this provision also because the client without the author's consent can change his author's work. Why this is problematic for journalists and the journalistic profession should not be over-explained. It's about objective information. You set the example that you wrote an article of a thousand 900 characters and the editor asked you for a thousand 700 characters. That's not the right example. So in a contractual relationship, a journalist writes some kind of authorial text, and there's no right for an editor to change that author text according to his point, is there? Here we are, of course, talking about censorship, changing the content of the text, and that is made possible by this law. Yeah? Furthermore, the problem is that they appear spontaneously then the journalists of the law disappear, so even though they really are included authors among the works of the author, in Article 14, paragraph 2, but we also have to say that after the intervention of the Association of Journalists, and not that you put it into the law just like that. This was included in this law after the first reading and after extremely loud interventions by journalists. But then again, the press lists the works and types of authors and you drop the press. I think journalism and publicity are an integral part of the original authorial expression, now that I don't list Miroslav Krleža, Vesenik Tenžeru, I don't know Ivančić, Posnik, Senjanović, Dežulovic, I think these are extremely authoric texts. So they need to be listed taxed. Article 1(1) should be complemented because journalism has failed there again. So the HSS and the Workers' Front will propose in front of the club a series of amendments among other things to be included in these articles of the press. What still exists is the problem of introducing unnecessary barriers to the use of authorship that introduces the possibility of abuse. You have multiple times in the law if this is in line with the usual practice in media reporting then the author is recognised by the author. I mean, why the fence, right? Either it exists or it belongs to the author or it doesn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59834	Time. Thank you very much. You have a line from Mrs. Selak Rasdic. [[Intruder Peovic: There... time for...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59835	Dear colleague Peovic, here's the thing that bothers us. So, you and I and the roof association of journalists who are most in the interest of this legal section see one problem, while at the same time from the legislator we are all convinced that it only seems to us that journalists are perfectly protected by this law, the more they finally become authors with a great a. How do you explain this disproportionateness between what the journalist's roof association is saying about copyright that we see here you and me and what the ministry convinces us of?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59836	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59837	Well, thank you, colleagues, for this matter. Really, I mean, that's the impression that we have here that there's absolutely no question to ask. Every question we get answers that we haven't read correctly, we don't get it right. But, well, maybe you and I can misread a specific issue about the press. But if the press associations understand this issue quite differently from the minister, then it's a really big problem, and here we often find ourselves in a situation where the HDZ actually interprets that everything is okay and that this will be agreed by some other regulations, so they refer us to other laws like this here, the Minister of the Copyright Act, and in this law, don't limit ourselves to this law. But all laws must be uniform. That's why we bring them in so there won't be any other interpretations that can really go against the authors. In this case, we really need to listen to the Association of Journalists dealing with specific copyrights that have warned from day one of the problems related to this Law and not much of their acceptance.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59838	Time. Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. Now it's time to move again, Madam Culture Minister and the media Mrs. Nina Obulen Koržinek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59839	Thank you. I only took the floor once again to warn that our Ministry is in charge of both culture and the media and these issues listed here are regulated by the Media Act. So, more representatives here pointed out that this is a complex matter of the Copyright Act. And I've learned a lot about it in this process because this is the first time this law in the House is brought by the Ministry of Culture and Media. But really these questions are not my goal, nor to reach out, nor to claim that someone understands or understands something good or bad, just to point out that all questions related to text cuts, editorial powers and all other issues, the protection of sources, all these issues are governed by the Media Act. The copyright law doesn't make it right. We are talking about an article of the law, which is why I set an example of a photographer, we could give a lot more examples, just to try to explain that it is about protection and employers, and workers and what was created in a working relationship. Much more, most copyright works are created outside of work, and we all know that. This is already an exception, so inside that exception you have the exception for science again because of this specificity. So it's not good to generalize and it's not good to impute something that really isn't in the draft of this law. I am also in a direct debate with the representative of the Association for the Protection of Journalist Copyright on the Committee for Those who were and once again tried to explain, that unfortunately the thesis being carried out that this is going in any way at the expense of journalists does not really stand. I ask you to read the Media Act as a fundamental law governing these relations and you will realize that Article 100 of this Law really has nothing to do with whether someone is going to cancel or rework someone's journalistic text. It's arranged by other laws. This Article 100 does not apply to this. In addition, you have in the early parts of this law a whole series of provisions that define the priority of copyright and the rights of the author in relation to all other rights. So this is really just one situation where the contract doesn't arrange it, and the press law says that the labor contract has to be arranged. I ask you so much that this debate would not go the wrong way we are here really for all questions, to clarify everything that is in the law. But what you put as a thesis doesn't really come from Article 100. And I don't know how it can be read like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59840	Stay, stay, you have a series of replicas, Madam Secretary. The first is Mrs. Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59841	Dear Minister, as someone who has really read the laws over the past year, I can responsibly claim that this is one of the most complex we have ever met in terms of matter and quantity. And I'll agree that there was a demanding task ahead of you. However, if there are objections, and when I talk about a roof news society, I'm not talking about one person. We're also talking about different legal teams behind these same associations, just like we all have some legal teams we're consulting on things that are unclear to us. You're in position if you could, I'd like you to cut that same Gordian knot. Change these legal provisions that we consider controversial in a way that makes it unequivocally clear what you are saying here so that it does not remain on those who will question whether this relates to the potential damage to the rights of copyright journalists or is being regulated solely by the Media Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59842	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59843	Thank you. I'm just asking you again, not to take your precious time to call on the Media Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59844	Mr. Zeljko Pavić next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59845	Dear Minister, I'd like to return to Article 306. Article 5 We discussed this article on the Committee and we received an explanation that what it says in Article 306(5) does not comply with the directive. That's what your associate said. However, in the light of the law, it states that this is a conformity with the directive. Which is true, and if that item, it says, I see a colleague right there, but it does say it in an explanation of the law. We would like to know exactly what is true and that we are making amendments or not making amendments to that item. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59846	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59847	What we have realized is that it is not a alignment with the directive is a matter of three years, because the whole arrangements regime is something that we are introducing in the national plan, the national regime. What is important is to transpose the spirit of the directive in which it called on Member States to resolve the situation and recognise the need for a fair compensation, by achieving the fair compensation of the performer and by identifying it as a weaker side. However, it did not establish a regime that states would then simply transpose into their own legislation, but each country is actually free to do so in a way that it considers to be the most appropriate situation in its territory.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59848	Thank you. Mrs. Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59849	Minister, I'm a little confused right now, I have to admit. Here I am, really, a lot of it bothers me. Are we talking about the Copyright Act here? Are the journalists the authors? Why do you point me to the Media Act when we're talking about authors? Well, this is the Copyright Act. All right. So this law regulates property rights, property and moral rights, not the Media Act. So journalists must have arranged property rights through this law. Also, so we have a record, and that's what journalists warn us about some kind of conflict of one and a long law. If you want the law to be unambiguous, then you have to determine exactly what you're changing and why you're changing it. It means why change in relation to the existing law where there was no, so transfer to the publishers. It needs to be defined and then there won't be any of these obstacles.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59850	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59851	I'm thanking you. I don't know what to do anymore, how I can do it again. So the Media Act is a lex specialis. This High House really knows what lex specialis is when there is an area and there is nothing that the subject of lex specialis can do by general regulation.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59852	Mr. Rasputic Replic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59853	Dear Minister, let's stay only in these remarks by the Association for the Protection of Journalist Copyright, and I don't think it's the case that everything they object to is regulated by the Media Act, because it simply isn't, and even where it may be, I don't see the problem of putting it in this law to avoid any ambiguous interpretations. But it's not just what was left out in this law, but what they think should be, but also the things that are in this law, which are excess and unnecessary like this possibility of processing and completing works by publishers. So, I don't think it's the thesis that it's regulated well enough by the Media Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59854	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59855	It's not about the right of the publisher, it's about the right of the employer, and it's a misunderstanding that colleagues constantly impose the thesis on the member. The 100th settles the question of journalists. No, he edits the creation of an authorial work in a work relationship and nothing more and nothing less. I personally think it's very important when a regulation like this comes really to refer to what the law says, not what someone writes in the law. We tried to convince a colleague here, unfortunately I have to talk to such a personal deputy because it's really about one person who was a member of the task force and we've all explained it several times, but here we are going to repeat as many times as we need. This article does not apply to journalists, journalists are exactly the opposite of being the most protected because they have a lex specialis that is regulated by the explicits that must be signed by the Treaty of Copyright.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59856	Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Ursha Raukar Gamulin's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59857	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I would use this replica to ask you about those performers and authors who are not in a working relationship. So in the past law there was an institute of oral agreement that was valid as a written contract with proof of action. We're unfortunately all witnesses that not once happens to do something without, without, without, without a contract, so maybe I didn't read it correctly, there's absolutely a possibility because it's a really complicated text, but here's why this oral agreement is, can you answer me?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59858	Yeah, yeah, yeah, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59859	Say, yes, I mean, I'd like to say that I'm personally two three times...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59860	Wait, no dialogue, you finish, then you have to sit down, and the Minister will answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59861	Yes, no, I was watched by the esteemed lady. Minister, so I thought he would, maybe we could talk. No, I'm interested because, personally, several times, I made it through that provision to get to the nice fee they wanted to pay me off.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59862	Thank you. Here you go, ma'am. Minister's response.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59863	The written contract is something that is necessary, the written contract has been introduced, I don't have any notes here now, long ago in our laws and nowhere is it written that, on the contrary, you have to make the contract. Whoever hires you is obliged to make a deal with you. We unfortunately know that there have been different practices, but it certainly does not come from this or the former law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59864	And Mr. Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59865	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, Your Honor. I'd like to go back a little bit to this article. In the 100th of this bill, therefore, which refers to the works created in the working relationship, and I would like to stress once again that I absolutely agree with your conclusion that you have expressed about the fact that the situation of the workers in the case of the application of the interpretation brought here by my colleague Peović, and I really do not understand that he does not understand that part and I agree with what you have said, so the question that the employer would in fact want the workers who are employed by him to actually make what they create during the working relationship become therefore the property of the worker, and not the employer himself, and I really do not understand what way my colleague actually thinks that such a solution that she would actually improve the position of the workers. I would also remind you that the Labour Act itself also makes clear, for example, the inventions that were actually made by workers during the duration of the working relationship are also the property of employers. Therefore, in the existing rules, you already have the same solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59866	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59867	Thank you, Mr. Representative. We are the same opinions, and that is why we have proposed such an article that it brings legal certainty, together with the establishment of such a regime only when there is no other agreement is actually about regulating the right. So any employer with his employee can arrange the rights in any other way. This is just a situation where there's no contract. And we are also of the opinion because we advocate the more stable forms and safer forms of work and against the preeminent relationship, in particular we see it as a problem in the media, every contribution to the employment of as many workers and workers as possible in the media with labour contracts, we think it is good and that it should be encouraged.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59868	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. And now it's Madam. Maria Selak Rasudiæ, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59869	The Honorable Minister at departure has now said a key word, she said any employer can, not necessarily, but can, if he wants to arrange these relations differently. And now one date with reality, the minister obviously never did, unfortunately here she is now gone, so don't follow this debate anymore, I did here work as a journalist and I know the status of journalists well. There is no employer, let's not lie, which will edit this status voluntarily differently in such a way that he will benefit journalists may be the most recognizable overworkers, it is a very incessant interest with extremely small or no labour rights. The consequences are not only of journalists whose rights we fight for here, but of the entire Croatian society. Why? Because they're so unprotected they don't write and they don't have a chance to write enough research and quality texts, they're under a lot of pressure from self-censorship to keep any working relationship at all. In the end, the content they produce in such conditions is consumed by all of us, and ultimately we are disgusted by the lack of democratic processes in the country. That's why this is a first-class legal and political issue that concerns all of us. If we don't make their status simple tomorrow we won't have citizens who will be able to choose us too much because there won't be anyone smart enough to follow these discussions in the way that they should. Yes, I'll repeat the minister has said the key word, the employer may, but we did not ask here that the employer do what he can but that when he's already doing the Copyright Act, he conditioned it in a way that he authoritally raised someone into some recognizable property rights position different from what he used to be. So, to know unequivocally what the employer must, not what he can, because what you leave unsettled probably will never materially be realised in someone's rights. And to be clear, this is where the press came in. If we accept that the thesis that this applies not only to journalists but also to media law, they can be more protected here, the various other authors, such as architects, such as the authors of computer games whose rights are equally violated and allowed the employer to simplify themselves with what they create, do whatever they want. If we say that it is in spirit with other laws and that it is a positive practice, if we say that this is how we deal with inventions, then the question of what is the label of the author and what is the copyright law in the first place? We need to agree here what we want from this law and what we want to achieve by it. If we want to recognize the authors, we need to protect their material rights. If we are to protect their material rights, then it must be unequivocally clear. And I'd like to take a final look around. This, please give me a few seconds since the distinguished vice president of the assembly rang behind my back [[Intruder: No, no audience alone it wasn't aimed at you.]] And I had to see this one yes, like we're not gonna tell where, who's being called by the bell. [[We'll give you a few seconds more, we'll give you a few seconds.]] Okay, so what I was going to say in conclusion is about this dispute between performers or between roof associations dealing with the rights of performers and discographic associations. In recent times, we have all been exposed to an intense lobbying of roof associations of both sides to participate in the presentation of their arguments regarding this final legislative proposal. It personally created this for me, although I was originally talking about their rights one level of reluctance because I did not finally see how good this would bring to the performers themselves as recognized authors, but it seemed to me that the battle here was more about some material rights that would benefit one or the other roof society. I would like to be taken more seriously and more approachable by all other social actors concerned by the laws that are passed in this respected home, and even when they do not have such great material consequences that will arise under these laws. for those to whom these laws apply. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59870	Thank you very much, stay, have a replica. Just to be clear, there were marbles not in the benches, so I warned the MPs, we're not at school like you wanted to say, but, uh, it was in your favor. Here you go, Mr. Rasdic. [[Thank you, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59871	This bill shows some, and I suppose, creaminess if the journalists are shown that they are quoted as authors, but yet in some important articles they are not listed as in Article 1 which defines the subject of this law and leaves out the press area or Article 14 where the authorial work is defined where there is no journalistic work again, which I consider important as well as a clear precision of the time period and the area in which the matter will be published which, of course, the contract may belong to the publisher because it is very fluid that border between journalism and literature, mentioned the name of Veseka Tenžere, I personally believe that Tenzerin feljeton of the Zagreb Bars belongs to the peak of recent Croatian literature. It may have been news, a few weeks it belonged to journalism or maybe a few months because it was slower then, but after 40 years it's literature if it's left. So I think we should put them in the rest of the articles of the press area and give them that dignitity. 'Cause I repeat, we never know how they're gonna take you out. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] The burden of time and where it will end. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59872	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59873	The paradox is this, if we create the Copyright Act and we want a more recognizable status of journalists as authors, and not just journalists, I will repeat in this case the architects and all others that we have previously talked about through these parliamentary debates, then the only thing that makes sense is that their status is unequivocally going through all the legal provisions in a way that it does not be as it is now is the point of opposition. In another case, there is a legitimate question as to why we are even bringing about these legal changes. Now we're in an uninvited situation, it's 5:00 in the afternoon, the media debate hasn't even started yet, and we're all here again as useful fools taking part in an attempt to introduce censorship into HS because a key debate on the state and position of the media and the law that needs to be regulated which is something that should be inadmissible in democratic society [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] This should be made available to all Croatian citizens. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59874	No more replicas, Mrs. Selak Rasdic. Please, please. Here's a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59875	Dear Representative Selak Raspadić. You'll have to take care of your dictionary because neither of us are useful fools here nor are we doing censorship. I don't think this kind of vocabulary should be discussed in the assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59876	Mr Krstulović I must give you a warning because you did not mention the article, and it was a replica. And now, Mrs. Selak, for the third time, I'm warning her more. You insist? I don't think so. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59877	Art. In 238, I have to express my revolt, when the content fits the form then the form can be appropriate. In a situation where censorship is quietly introduced into HS and key laws by not knowing which way they put in late evenings so that the Croatian public will not follow them, we all need to get up loud and clear against such practices because being a useful fool means allowing this practice to continue to exist by continuing to participate in these discussions. .../Speakers speak at the same time./... if you don't feel that way, I feel that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59878	I will now express my revolt taken from you by the end of the debate about this point is it by all means, I will not specify at all, it was a replica, it was a replica and your revolt. I'm expressing my revolt. And now, Mr. Rasputic, you will express your revolt. Come on, come on, come on, come on, And to whom is the injury, since you have raised Mrs. Raspadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59879	No, not on Mr. Krstulovich.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59880	But you didn't before. Okay, I'll let you, but you know that the moment you don't go to the chronometer, the moment it rises, That moment marks who you are, and now you are replicating Mrs. Rasdic. [[Intruder Raspadić: Well, she apologized since it was related to the same topic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59881	I can even replicate to her because she's as wrong as the gentleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59882	You're not replicating, you're not replicating, it's hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59883	I'm sorry, I'm in violation of the Rules of Procedure. 238, why I feel humiliated as a representative. Namely, he's not Mr. Oprah's useful fool, he's just useful in this action. We are useful fools because we gave a speech on behalf of the club and individual and replicas etc. Which extends time and into the night more and more pushes the debate you want to hide, and we'll see why, and that's the Law on Electronic Media and all that you're pushing into it So we're useful fools, and you're just using in that.../Speakers speak at the same time./... [[Okay, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59884	Look, and I'd be a fool, and I don't even know if it's useful if I didn't give you a warning right now. You have a warning. Mrs. Karolina Vidovic Kristo is now, has no injuries to the Rules of Procedure but has a debate, I just don't see her. Nothing, he's losing his right. Madam Vice President Sabina Vosovac, she's not losing her right. Mr. Davor Dretar, he's got it and he doesn't lose his right. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59885	Well, we managed to at least raise the temperature a little bit, so let's let that happen a little bit, and it seems to me that we've all agreed a lot about this bill, so let's just get it all shaken up. Once again, in this individual debate, I would like to highlight the rights of a musician, the rights of a performer. We all know ourselves that several times since March of last year when the pandemic started, when the covid-19 virus started and, of course, lockdown or unpopular locking were all in our homes and music was a dry need, and I believe that many people sometimes also shortened those long days of loneliness and brought little or even a lot of joy. Of course, let us not forget that it is perfectly normal for all of us to go to the store to buy bread, milk, or any living food to pay for it. It's absolutely normal and there's no debate going on anywhere in the world. But the fact here is that for years since 2013 there have been various internal companies in Croatia that offer music that you can download at any moment at any place, on birthdays, at christenings, at any party. The people who created this music, the people who designed it, the people who brought it into the world, so who played it for it either completely unpaid or poorly paid in the most frequent number of cases. I took a few minutes today to try and contact some people from that world. Davor Gobac doesn't need to be represented, him and his psychomodo pop group in his style answered, listen what I know I get some change, but it's all expensive. Darko Ergotić, leader of Slavonska Lola's famous composition, says that we have no contract at all, knows neither how many times any of these Internet services have been downloaded by any song by Slavonski Lola. So it's absolutely wrong. Should we and how to discuss the fact that we will give a period of three years, a period of six months, or we will completely abolish a provision in which it will have to be retrograded and subsequently regulated by contracts, we can debate and I believe that we will still discuss it. But I'd like to take a look at another part of the art world, and I've had the honor of being part of it. What about the actors of dear friends and friends, dear ladies and gentlemen? Here there is plenty of time so I looked at the Youtube channel, you can have absolutely no problem looking at countless episodes of Croatian playful humorous or dramatic series, such as Byteangs and Princesses, Forever neighbours, Rest you deserve, there we can see many famous Croatian actresses and actors. Of course, these are only three examples, tens and tens of them. And these people have also made their own authorial contribution and these people are unpaid, these people know themselves in television countless reruns, especially on the channels of private houses with national TV concessions, to say domestically, or spent to the limit. I once signed a contract myself as the host of a television show, of course, it is in our interest to get some money, so we also sign a contract with the devil because the reruns are irrevocably gardening, gardening and gardening, filled with programming minutes, but to the authors, or at least to the creators of it, not a single lip. So, another kind of talent that hasn't been regulated in this country so far. I hope that the good and quality implementation of some of the items in this law and articles in this law will finally, and those people, in a fully deserved way, get, say, the money they deserve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59886	Thank you, too. Yes, you have a replica of Mr. Pavic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59887	Dear fellow Dretar. This information you received from your fellow musicians is not accurate. Namely, there is a ZAPRAF association that monitors the performance of all possible works on any media. It's serious down there... They collect it in one place and such data exist with them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If they don't know where they're getting the funds from, they get from there because they've collected data on how many times the song's done and then they get a certain amount of money. The fact is that the 100 is smaller because you can't follow everything, here what you said about Youtube is problematic, there are other such portals on which you can listen to that music for free, but means there is an association that monitors it and whose task and with it is always signed contract. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59888	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59889	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Pavić. Yes, I agree that there is absolutely certain somewhere a platform that is completely sinless because today's information systems are such registers every performance of any musical or any other piece in what we can call virtual space. Here, and I'm supposed to have been some kind of performer a long time ago, and here my discographer is vice president of the Republic of Croatia, and I've never received any information, and I'm going to have to talk to him, obviously, and now I'm going to have to go to another club to ask him that. But there's neither I got any information nor I have absolutely no idea where you'd ask exactly and who you'd ask exactly and, of course, at the end of the day, how much do I even have that tiny lip that belongs to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59890	Now it's Mr. Goran Ivanovic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59891	Thank you very much. The Honorable Vice President of HS, the Honorable Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Before I say anything about the subject, and certainly it's one of the top themes and this law and the Law on Electronic Media that awaits us after this debate. I'd say no, we're HS in HS nothing's neither early nor late, we're Parliamentarians doing our job. Now, if anything is at two o'clock this afternoon or at 21 o'clock a night, I don't think it's that important, I'm more concerned that we're too little here at the HS Assembly, which is going to say that some of the MPs aren't just interested in this topic, not just in all the topics that we're talking about here. I will begin by commending both the Minister and the Ministry and, above all, the Media Committee. I think that the Media Committee is sitting there, of course, and people who are not from a position, these are our colleagues on this side of the assembly who have also put a lot of effort into giving themselves a lot to discuss today and tonight as well, which is more useful for those we are discussing. The whole habitat of this debate is practically the same as in the first reading, we have a relationship of discographers and performers and okay, we've expanded a little bit this time, there are journalists who are employed by their employers. I think it's a complex law, I think it's a law that works well and determines some things that will happen. Perhaps the greatest drawback is that this law has not been amended since 2003, now take 2003. as a reference and this 2021, these are two perverse worlds that occurred in the media or digital space. Nothing is absolutely the same as 2003. and it is good to discuss this law right now and what it will find its application. I'm going to say a little bit about this dispute between the artist's biographers, and I spent a lot of time with both of them. We cannot kill creativity, creativity is the driver of society in all segments, and I am so that performers must be adequately compensated and without it there is no incentive to creativity. To think a little bit more about this three-year period, I agree absolutely, but it can't be the headstone of the whole story, it's one of the topics that we can talk about, we can talk about. I think what's most important, there was talk here that the biographies weren't necessary, they were needed, the biographers were those who also encouraged that part of creativity, but they got a little bit of a say in the interest mind maybe at some point when they saw that this digital cake could be taken practically everything, it's not good, that country has to react, that ministry has to react, and all the time we say we devoted exactly to that. So this law will manage to touch at least the points we want to solve will probably not solve them all in this final bill, but as time changes, and let's be honest very quickly so the law will probably adapt to the time ahead and I hope that, that all the actors involved and interested in adopting this law will at least be equally or satisfactorily or unsatisfactory, but the word OK, that is the maximum that can be right now. And it's just maybe another bigotry to end up not being created in public by a man who played the violin in some song from some leading performer of that digitalism and when his biographers paid him off to become a multimillionaire, he won't. These fees are still very, very small, they are also small in the author's section. This is still not what performers who want to deal with whether they are the main performers, whether they are instrumentalists who play in some part, of course it does not apply only to musicians, it applies to other people who are involved in architecture, anything that falls under copyright protection. So, here's a thank you to everyone, and I think we've rarely spent this much, a lot of time on the law, and you've made an effort to listen to everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59892	Thank you, Mr. Ivanovic. You have a series of replica authors, Mr. Nikola Mazhar's first.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59893	I thank the chairman. Dear colleague Ivanovic, here you have said so for many years and in some way you have been involved in all parts of this industry in some way, despite being both a parliamentary representative and a member of the Media Committee, you have been able to learn from all aspects of looking at all the issues. What this debate certainly shows, therefore, is that the law that has been amended and supplemented since 2003 has finally come into the final form of the law and its complexity is seen not only in this debate but also in its preparation. Of course, what comes first today to certain stakeholders is the key and most important. So we have seen the question of discographers and performers, but with this law, much is changing in both the security form and the protection of copyright and the protection of performers, and ultimately the internet that has not been in these forms so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59894	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59895	I agree. When 2000, I think, started to collect copyright, we performers were skeptical of or we authors were skeptical of it, we were afraid of this collective association that someone was representing us all, and on behalf of us was collecting some compensation, and then justly sharing it with us. But I'll say in these 20 years. My experience as an author, I'm very pleased, not too satisfied, but I'm satisfied and I think collective associations are good, which is where I think we can achieve a lot more. This law says you can organize yourself collectively, but you can have your own contract individually, represent yourself, and I think that's it, that's good. But I'm saying, from our own experience, I think we've made a shift in this authorial sense. I also think there's going to be a shift in time ahead of us and when it comes to these disputes.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59896	Thank you very much. Mr. Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59897	Thank you very much. Coliga Ivanovic, we heard in your section at the beginning of a discussion of some of your remarks on what we heard from the Rasdic family. So the biggest problem with this law is that the one that follows is in the late hours, that means that this is a pretty good law because they haven't found any big problems for me that could torture all of us. And this relationship between the author and the biographer will remain an eternal question, who's more important here, whether every author of the works like that one of our colleagues here was successful if he didn't have a good biographer, and if that were to be heard so far if there were no such things or still he was the most important, and the biographers are less important. We have looked at numerous films and numerous stories about many successful musicians, it is clear when we go back a little to history that the biographies have contributed to these authors and their works coming to the audience. How much will anyone get it is to say again something that even this law certainly won't solve until the end, but surely it's better than what we've had so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59898	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59899	Thank you very much. Discographers are like bankers, they want to take your money, and there's no speech, they say we encourage you first, so we have to charge for it. But it's such a relationship and for these relationships absolutely knows, it's not even the point of this law that we say that the discographers will get 54%, and the performers will get the rest, not that this law certainly can't prescribe it. If I were a discographer, I would encourage that creativity, would young performers encourage, money is always an incentive and there is no speech, no speech if it wasn't and would encourage young performers to be both singers and good musicians and to generally raise that creative Croatian industry to the EU level, there we are still lagging behind, and I'm sure we have, that we have the capacity right in our domestic forces. I therefore agree that there is no time to discuss any law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59900	... We don't always forget. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] - Mrs. Crescent. Vesna Bedekovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59901	Thank you very much. Dear fellow, we all agree here that this law is very complex both in terms of matter and in terms of content and it is, in fact, if we are to put it simply, its goal is to adapt to a new digital age and we have to adapt to it whether we want it or not. We are aware that indeed this law has been passed through extensive public debates, thousands and thousands of pages, additional consultations, two thematic sessions where we have really talked to stakeholders and we have realized that, for example, the biographies, the performers, the journalists, the publishers in the end were unable to agree and find a common solution. The others were buried firmly in their positions. And so what you said, I really think this law represents one framework for regulating mutual rights and relations between different stakeholders in different sectors. What I think is important and important to point out that really this law is not partial to anyone and really allows [[Intruder: Thank you.]] does not enter into mutual relations and allows regulation without taking advantage. [[Intruder: Thank you very much, Mrs. Bedekovic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59902	Here's your answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59903	Thank you very much. Someone will always say for any law to be passed here in the Croatian Parliament that it was done by someone else's measure. I don't have that impression of the Copyright and Related Rights Act because we really wanted to listen as a board, listen to everyone. These remarks, which individuals, individual MPs and MPs have said, I agree in principle with them in the same way. I also think that maybe a three-year term is long, but they said it's about some practice used when, when laws are passed, I don't know I'm not a professional lawyer, so I can't say that, and I can agree with that. I absolutely don't think we went to anyone's hands at least I didn't get that impression or someone asked me to, we wanted to be just and just, and I think maybe even with one or two amendments being changed, we'll do something about it. what people will be equally content or equally dissatisfied with, anyway. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59904	Mrs. Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59905	Thank you. Well, here's obviously one of the issues, not only, not most importantly, but one of the controversial issues of this retroactivity that's being introduced in the relationship between the discographers and the performers. It is undeniable that performers are weaker and should be protected, however, the way in which the Republic of Croatia and the Government and the Minister of Resor has decided to undermine that protection is undermining the very legal foundations of this country. So we intervene in relations and acquired rights that have been created and implemented completely in some period since I don't know 3, 5, 7, 10 years ago, irrelevant. At that point, certain contracts were concluded where the discographers paid a fee for his work in order to transfer to themselves those powers to further commercialise the work. Now imagine what happens in case within 3 years, so here is not a matter of timeout but of content, if within 3 years do not conclude new contracts are considered to be collectively realised and in what way the contract does not exist. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59906	Mrs. Oreshkovic, thank you. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59907	Yeah, of course there's another segment nobody talked about today. So, the author of the work has the right to compensation while he's alive, and after he's dead for another 77 years, it's what he's going to pass on his author's work to. So I can understand in part this, it won't be easy, it's not about the contractors who signed the contracts 5, 10 or 15 years ago that are alive, it's going to be a problem with those whose heirs are still entitled to those works and it's not going to be easy to find or find solutions, but I accept this suggestion, and I think that this deadline could be much shorter if we take into account that the discographers say that most of these contracts have and that these contracts are only signed then we need to revise them and put them in a digital context, and that's all.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59908	Thank you. Mr. Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59909	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Representative Ivanovic, here we are once again known as the author who has not sang "my work has been given" for at least once in his life, which was not at any party, but I would like to ask you for just one brief comment from your position. The fact is that the discographers here are quite intense, you know, and all the clubs themselves have been very, very crowded with all their memos over the past few weeks. What do you think, would the real adoption of this law, according to their claims, lead to a massive decrease in music and the possible withdrawal of digital music services from the Croatian market? I personally don't think so, but I'd like to hear your comment. Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59910	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59911	I think anything is possible, but let's be honest, it's never gonna stop that interest of a discographer. Whether they will, we may be in 5 or 10 years to get to the time that the biographies will play a completely different role than they have so far. Maybe it'll come up with some kind of algorithm that's going to set things up differently in this creative industry, and of course, sometimes it's said that the hard line is to scare or scare someone. I personally think that they will stay in Croatia, Croatia is a potent music market only I think they should invest in it much, much more than they might invest now.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59912	And finally Mrs. Grba Bujevic. It's not working. Here, try this. [[Intruder: Someone didn't rule out maybe.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59913	A little technical problems. Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A fellow wide-ranging law, we've all come to terms with that. There are many improvements and modernisations in line with this time in which we live. And that's what we all agreed on. But what is important to mention is that this law does not only speak about discographers and performers but also actually includes other parts of that same system as for example. publishers, journalists and a series of other rights. These rights were not regulated and it is good that this law further improves and edits. What's also I think it's important to repeat once again that width that she's brought, that will pass that law. 60 people participated in the task force and a number of other experts participated, the public debate was, the constituency committee in which the two of us work and the other colleagues sitting here really put a lot, a lot of, a lot of work into talking to everyone. And that's what's good, and that's why this law is so wide and applicable to all these groups. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59914	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59915	Yes, always one topic dominates the entire law, although this is one of the most complex laws in the amount of pages, I don't think there are over 800 pages which public debate, which is the very text itself and of course it's not good to talk about just one group, whether it's biographies or performers, is much wider that context of authorship. But I think we've opened a good topic, nothing is something that can't change at some point, of course, for the better. We thus learn to live in a digital age, and surely that time will force us to do things much, much faster. I don't see any problems with HS permanently ambushed all year long so let's change it every year if it's the benefit of those we do it for, I think we're doing a good thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59916	Thank you very much. No more replicas, thank you. And now it's Mr. Ante Prinkin's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59917	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here is that, before the debate ends and I, this complex legislative proposal, means not to modify and supplement but to make a legal proposal, although I thought that changes and additions, to try to simplify it, but it's impossible than I'm going to process a small segment. And I can think of one of Ezop's basses, and Drele corrects me if it's not Ezep's because I read it somewhere in elementary school, and I know how to talk poetry here sometimes. He says, ask an old goat if he likes a song or a prose, and the goat gets baptized with a black hoove, I love you for what's wrinkling. So this goat of Ezep is not a symbol of goat's wit and stupidity but of wisdom and simplicity. So, I would because, like everyone else, I talked to many people who tried to lobby, so I would refer primarily to the users of these services, primarily music services. I'm in that direction and I've replicated the minister, but the minister, by her own good practice, she doesn't seem to hear what she's told, but she's saying what she wants to say. If I had asked her the question she asked me, then I would have said to myself that I belong in another institution, not in the institution of the Parliament, because to challenge the right of the author, to protect his copyright and that he would have been compensated, then he wouldn't really be too much of a person. But please, when we have these copyrights and copyrights, who is the Croatian repressive system? First the police, and then the judiciary, etc., assume every other problem, murder, serious acts all awaited, but ZAMP at the same time solves all this together and it can't happen to be someone there has a serious interest. When it's so valuable, when it's so serious that it can charge at Club Factory, my rule is people have a name and last name, and the event place and time, so at Club Factory a monthly fee of 32,000 kuna when the next day is 8,000 kuna. You can go to the master, car mechanic or tire balancer to balance them and change them and pay 300 kuna today, and tomorrow 3,000 kuna. Well, there's nothing going on in that country of Denmark that's not right, so it's supposed to protect itself, or here I don't like to read, but I have to, about ZAMP, "The action to collect copyright would be strengthened every time Emporium goes into the financial difficulties." So ZAMP is one agency that has almost no control over it, that agency made up of interesting people because I met with Mr. I think it's Sec or something called it 20 years ago, when I suggested that it be quite different to charge and that it was quite different to take money from private entrepreneurs, primarily the caterer. A man jumped out of his mind and I saw someone's serious interest in it all together. So then I went a little further so I found out that in this House, I think that's what you're doing, Tonci Tadic, had a suggestion that users of services, so as I said earlier, the minister got angry when I said it was a hack. There are entrepreneurs, there are hosts who call it even uglier who say it's a racket. So, owners of catering facilities and colleagues from ZAMP to sit down and agree. The deal couldn't have been arranged, the state promised it would by 2003. I suggest a way to resolve mutual relations and disputes, the state has never done so. I don't know what my colleague Dretar thinks about our vote on this bill, you've proposed 5, 6 amendments, it makes sense if some of the amendments accept that you will support the law. I will not support the law, but we are going with the initiative to go after 15 days to amend and supplement this law, especially the part that talks about the tariff rule and which speaks about how to charge taxes or taxes from the user of copyright services on music. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59918	Please, sir. Here you go, Mr. Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59919	Thank you, Your Honor. Your Honor, Mr. Prickin. It seems to me that you've made a very good point of ZAMP as well as perhaps a potential author of this law because of all the 20 associations that contacted us during this lobbying process ZAMP has not been notified, so it seems to me that they're the only ones who have absolutely nothing against it. But I would ask you to explain once again to us here your very interesting thesis that what we pay ZAMP is actually a kind of property tax that I've missed a little bit of that explanation, so I'd like to ask you one more time... [[/Speakers speak at the same time, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59920	I have to give you my word, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59921	In enthusiasm.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59922	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59923	So, looking...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59924	I have the authority to do that.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59925	...seeing the tariff rule I noticed that the maximum amount that a certain catering facility pays exclusively for the value of the facility is a property tax. You have, you have a living room, you have a coffee shop that has night hours, there's 20 people, 30, 50 people over 24 hours, and there's a serious profit, and there's a huge discotheque that works Friday and Saturday, there's no one there, there's something small, and there's this discotheque that pays one 50 times bigger ZAMP, or bigger, greater copyright than this little place that concludes the next. These are obviously Mr. Josipovic's fingers and Mrs. Josephic's fingers. Josipovic. They're interested in it and they were involved in the creation of the law, and they know where to take the money, where to find it. The one who owns the bar...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59926	Mr. Pracchin, Mr. Skoro is waiting for his replica, Vice President Skoro.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59927	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59928	And where are you, Vice President?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59929	I welcome Mr. Prickin from the back bench. So ZAMP or copyright protection. And an institution that protects collective authors and those in that determining tariff to be paid is used by some methodology, whether it's square, chair, income. The discotheques you mention are unfortunately institutions or places where music is spinning, and that's probably all about income. I wouldn't defend them, but I'm just saying that something can be defended and protected individually and collectively. And I would disagree with you if it were in the interest of anything other than Croatian authors, I am one of them who can testify. And the Basta you were saying is also the work of the great author, not Ezop but Gustav Krkec within... gardens. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] There you go. Thank you. ... [[/Speakers speak at the same time, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59930	Maybe it doesn't just spin music on discotheques, but it doesn't matter. Mr. Prickin, here you go. [[Agreement: Krklec is spinning poorly]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59931	You must have checked that on the Internet quickly, but well, it doesn't matter.../Laughter/... Thank you. Mr. Vice President, may I answer?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59932	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59933	I agree with you. At first, I said that every author should be rewarded for what he created, but it can't be a square base, it can be the number of guests in that local bar and at the end of the bar if there is one. Any more replicas?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59934	There isn't. Done with the replicas? Okay, you were short now at the end, unusually short. Here you go, Mr. William Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59935	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President, colleagues and fellow ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Here we have come to this final debate about the final Law on Copyright and Related Rights, and indeed for this short time that I am here in the assembly, I really don't know as well as my colleagues have said about the more complex law and the law that has raised among fellow artists so much interest, debate, I would say enthusiasm, some desire, some enthusiasm that really accumulated problems are solved. The question is to what extent will this law really resolve these numerous doubts of contradictions stemming from opportunities provided by new technology. So the law we have is from 2003, that modern Iphone came out in 2007, 4 years. After that, fellow photographers and photo directors will say that the very fact that this thing was possible and you are witnessing how fast that quality of image develops. Many colleagues lost their jobs because children go and film and do really very good pictures themselves and don't need a Schwenker or a lighting director or a photo director anymore. But I would now get to my fellow movie actors. Personally, I'm not a movie actor, and I show up here and there on film. However, there are colleagues and colleagues who really live and put their whole lives into it and have great confidence as the author... screenwriters, directors and producers that they can bring out such impossible life, the day of the night in endless shootings under impossible weather conditions, from the greatest minuses to the impossible heats, very often in summer costumes, and in the summers in the heavy winter what they do is big I don't know what kind of military campaigns it turned out to be. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] This can be handled by rare, rare people, and as soon as they're finished, they have to go to the premieres immediately, they have to show everywhere what must be difficult for you politicians, and that's all the media, the yellow press and everything they can do on the way back to you. And imagine, quite accidentally, our fellow actors are very little inside, but in the end when you go to the reruns, there remains actually only the director at the end of the replay, on the rerun's rights. All the greatest actors of the great nations you know is more worldly than American, British, French, German, I don't know, look out, these are huge nations. However, there is only one small core on which the producers and directors of these actors dare rely. That we can't even put the lead actresses or the actors here, let alone the secondary ones without which the same thing can't work at all because how it's going to work if the replica is not well-directed, so that the master can really bounce top-notch. He didn't recognize that. And that's what I mean, big, big damage. So there's no actor in this at all. I'm talking about movie actors. Believe their fees for recording are in no way adequate to what these people sacrifice, and it seems, and they do so for glory. Question. The shortest I'll do now because I won't be able to make it all, but I just want to say one example, we talked about it here and our colleagues talked to the discographers as we talked to our colleagues, and on whose side I'm totally obnoxious, and I understand the performers, and here I was talking about it in the first debate, but I'm certainly just going to say this information. And the biographies I'm talking about about these new little leprosy bibs are about three years too long, and I think it could have been better to moderate the conversation between them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59936	Thank you, thank you very much. You don't have a replica. Mrs. Maria Jeklovac has her own debate now. Turn yourself on. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59937	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed secretary of state and the director, here's a debate that's been going on for a long time, a lot has already been said, I'm going to try to sublime a little. First of all, I'm going to say the beginning of what's copyright. Copyright is the copyright of the author in respect of his copyright. What you have all concluded is that copyright is certainly one complex right and very sensitive to edit all the relationships that occur here. What we must conclude is that this proposal for a copyright law must have taken one step forward and that some copyrights are better arranged than before, that there are some innovations in relation to the existing situation and that it will certainly contribute to the creation of legal certainty. What created the most obstacles, which is this relationship between the authors and the performers and the biographers that we have all concluded, the most lobbying in this respect does not mean that this law only speaks of this area of copyright but protects all copyrights much wider. However, what is most controversial, which is this Article 306(5), I would only say my position on this. So I don't think this is about any retroactivity. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Article 306 refers exclusively to the harmonisation of the contract after the entry into force of the law. So this is not the first time that after we pass a law that regulates a particular area differently than it was until then for certain justified reasons. In this case, it's the digital world we live in today, so it's normal to do it differently than it was boredom. So for that reason, these contractual relations must be harmonised. Of course, we heard today during the debate the obvious problem that so far these rights have not been resolved in all cases even by written agreement, so there will be certain problems. However, my view is that the law creates a certain framework, and the time of application, especially the first time the law is applied, will show whether the legislator has all predicted all possible situations or will remain certain problems during the application that will be observed and of course we have had a situation so far when in the first time the law has established that certain things should be further completed. If that's the case with this law, it's certain that they will then resort to some changes and additions to the law. Therefore, I believe that Article 305(3), which states that all rights and rights of both the authors and the performers and the publishers, all those to whom the rights of the author are possibly transferred remain intact after the entry into force of this law. Therefore, this is in line with the directive and I believe that this bill does not therefore prejudice retroactiveness. Here's what I'd just like to say, that it's very important that this bill has made some copyrights even better resolved than it's ever been before. Today we have heard something about it, and it is also copyright that comes about the works of the authorship that arises within the working relationship. They are also the copyrights of students for the works that arise during their study work. I think it's a good thing that the law has tried to comprehensively regulate this area which is very broad and very sensitive and we hope that the way it tried to achieve and balance and even these opposing sides is good. As far as this 3-year adjustment deadline is concerned, I would just point out that it is a maximum deadline, that it does not mean that it cannot be in the first year, but rather resort to the conclusion of a contract that will comply with the existing new law. So I don't think there should be a problem here. Of course we don't know. which is the number of contracts that will need to be harmonised, which is why such a longer period is standardly foreseen. [[Intruder Radin: Time Mrs. Jelkovac.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59938	Thank you. You have replicas, Mrs. Oreshkovic has the first line.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59939	Dear colleagues. Both you and everyone in the order of the ruling who defends this article. In fact, you have no idea what you're talking about, you're talking about complete nonsense, so here you're talking about the fundamental principle that should be respected in all legal systems by the pact sant servanda. So we have contracts that have been concluded, that means that both sides have given each other something, whether or not the right to perform, whether the cash amount, you about the mechanism that's being introduced through this provision, say that these contracts are no longer worth it, and you force the obligation to approach the review of these contracts and to enter into a new contract. I'm asking a question, so why would any performer be so crazy as to accept some new negotiation, some new bargaining, can simply be made stupid, wait for a three-year deadline and then exercise his rights through a collective association the legal system must not allow it. [[Thank you very much.]] So... it is not a three-year period but that such a provision must not be allowed at all. [[Intruder Reiner: Mrs. Oreshkovic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59940	Mrs. Oreshkovic, in addition to being able to choose words because things can be said in several ways, yes, you would have to stick to time, but the first thing is more important. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59941	Thank you very much. Well, dear colleagues, you have the right to your position, so I stand by what I said, I believe this section 5. 306 only prescribes compliance with the existing draft law. So this is not the first time that after a law is passed that regulates certain questions differently compared to previous ones that need to be harmonised. So it's a simple alignment with the new law. All rights which all stakeholders had until the moment of entry into force of the law by the same law exist and prescribed by the saying that they remain intact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59942	Mrs. Vesna Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59943	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Members, I did not want to lift the breach of the Rules of Procedure on the replica of my colleague Oreskovic, I believe that each of us can have the right and should have the right to his own position, but he cannot and has no right to insult and has no right to tell anyone that he has no idea what he's talking about. And you, in a very correct way, as a lawyer, have expressed your position regarding an article. 306th century 5th and related to the three-year deadline for the alignment of the contract. And I'd say that this is really about setting a kind of legal standard because every artist actually pro futuro has to have a contract and I agree with the deadline whatever it is that these contracts are in line, so I would agree with you. that it is not about retroactiveness but simply about unregulated rights that need to be regulated. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59944	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59945	Thank you very much. So I think that the ministry as a proposal has been working really hard to solve this very complex issue in a way that both sides are somewhat satisfied. Of course, all rights have their own interest, first of all as financially as Dretar said, and that each party protects and tries to achieve the most for itself. The fact is that this three-year term may be shorter or not, but it's hard right now to say it might be the best two or two-and-a-half years, so it's something we need to understand that it might be better to leave a longer term, that doesn't mean that in the first year, 80% of the contract can't already be harmonised. I think there should be an interest in one side and the other to make it happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59946	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. Thank you. Now it's Mrs. Ursha Raukar Gamulin's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59947	... Your Honored Secretary of State, Madam Director, Madam Absent, our Minister. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] So, in this Law on Copyright, which regulates certain artist rights, we see that music authors have the right to various fees, music performers also have the right to various fees, music producers, discographers also have the right to some fees, are not satisfied with their reasons, journalists also do not have enough rights. What about actors? What do actors actually have from this law? Nothing or almost nothing, so insignificant that it actually doesn't need to be fought to make it happen. You remember otherwise, actors play on movies and TV shows, right? Sometimes we watch these watches just for some actor or some actress because we love them, they're our stars, right? Yeah. But according to this bill, they have no compensation for anything, no cable retransmission or re-emission, for so-called. Replays on TV. They only have some old contracts sometimes, and that's why the law mentions actors' names only to take them if they happen to have something. And that's why old rights no longer apply, my dear colleagues and colleagues, if you have an old contract, feel free to tear it down because it's no longer valid, look at the article. 303. This is unremembered and it is certainly not a European practice and I wonder if there is a European country where actors are left out to this end. I don't know about her. Let's say Slovenia, look at the Slovenian copyright law so you will see, quite another story, a civilised story that takes care of everyone equally, respects all artistic professions and does not depend on the power of advocacy groups, but on justice and real relations. Here, for example. What do Monty Pythons John Cleese, Michel Palin live on today, or, say, Rowan Atkinson? They live off the stock sale, off the interest. Do they have a coffee shop or a bowling alley? No, they live on their rights, from their tantiums, they live on what they used to do. And thousands of European less-known actors and actors survive through such tantium incomes, cable retransmission, etc. And Monty Phyton and all the others less famous by this law in the Republic of Croatia would remain short sleeves. What is it that Croatian actors resented the Ministry of Culture to remain so disfellowshipped? While fellow singers, the players have the entire catalogue of rights this law regulates them as such, the actors unfortunately deny all rights. Are players, singers really more valuable than actors? I can't believe it. The fact is that musicians are better organized, it's absolutely true, but do actors also have to be punished by ignoring this law because of their poor organisation and lack of information? Well, I don't think they should. Isn't it a duty for the Ministry of Culture to take care of everyone in the same way and with equal care? Well, neither are our fellow writers, writers, cameramen, editors much better off, but at least they're somewhere, and the actor's nowhere to be found. So could Fabian Šovagovic, Ivo Gregurevic or, say, Goran Bogdan, Nina Violić, Alma Prica, Jelena Miholjevic, Sreten Mokrović, Krešimir Mikic have been able to list them indefinitely so that they did not deserve the Ministry of Culture to take care of their rights as well? Not to open now a debate on acting authority that is once crucial to the success of audiovisual works, it must not even be mentioned and clearly that we cannot even get close to the special term in this law co-author. The actors have the right to entertain you, to laugh, to imagine, to cry, to make you cry, but God forbid that their art and art have both some performer and what's worse copyright. He says to Hamlet Poloni "Try to treat them nicely because they are a short and short chronicle of time, you better make a bad grave sign after death than the actors speak ill of you for life." Polonius says, "I will treat them as they deserve," Hamlet says, "O 300 does not, much better, much better. If you treat every man as you deserve, who will avoid beatings. Treat them according to your honor and dignity." by your honor and dignity. [[Intruder Radin: Time.]] Ministers absent, there is time, amendments exist, do not allow.../Speakers speak at the same time./... to Croatian actors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59948	Mrs. Raukar and don't leave if you have a replica, that's it. Stop arguing, but don't leave. Here you go, Mr. Vice President, Skoro.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59949	Thank you very much. Dear Mrs. Raukar Gamulin. So, I love actors, I have a lot of friends of actors and I have to tell you I was a timely participant in the creation of the Croatian Association for the Protection of Artistic Rights and Croatian Music Union with Paul Sfecia, it was the middle of the '90s, after which I participated in the creation of the Croatian Discographic Association and I was the first executive director of ZAPRAF, so I don't boast, I was sitting on the ZAMP Committee and I talked many times with some of the people you mentioned here, who are also my friends. The late Ivo Gregurevic, Fabian Šovagovic, so that I don't list... many young actors from Mlikota and further invite them to self-organize. It can't be done for you by the Ministry of Culture, you have to do it yourself, it's unfortunately so and you have to have a Czech organization, then you have to have a collective rights association and I think it'll be very simple to do it, but here maybe you can run it as an initiative and then have a situation much clearer and cleaner.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59950	Time, thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59951	I don't agree deeply with you. That's why there's the Ministry of Culture, which is why there's a way to take care of all the people in the field in the same way. We can't depend on the advocacy forces of certain organizations, we can't and we can't. My fellow actors are not, I agree, many times in these almost four decades that I fought for acting rights I was angry with them, but they're not guilty if they don't have those abilities. So there is the Ministry of Culture that equally advocates everything in culture and art, so there is and it is his duty and it is his obligation.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59952	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. [[Intruder Raukar Gamulin: Please.]] Now it's Mrs. Mariana Puljak's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59953	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues. After a long debate in which a lot of things have been said and I will not repeat them now whether it is retroactive about how this bill actually introduces a mandatory collective exercise of rights and strengthens the role of ZAMP in some way, etc. which also opposes some EU directives as it calls into question the freedom of the artist's choice of performers to decide on their own on the way, scope, the exploitation of their rights. I'm going to mention here one thing that I don't think anyone's mentioned so far is kind of going under the radar, which is the introduction of a new parafiscal intrusion. By art. In this article, 218 of the law in question introduces a new fee relating to informational publications or magazines, a newspaper that is given to members of the public for use in a limited period of time in places accessible to the public such as catering facilities, and then beauty salons, hairdressers, dental offices, etc. So if the owner of a catering facility in his bar wanted to have a newspaper, e.g. The evening list, Jutarnji, Gloria or any other magazine would then have to address the registered collective rights organisation whose member is the publisher whose publication the locale wants to offer to its guests, and ask the same organisation for approval and pay compensation for such use of magazines or newspapers. Therefore, it is totally unacceptable at the time of the economic crisis to introduce new additional duties, additional fees and parafiscal burdens that will likely ultimately result in cancellation of services. Instead of reducing and discharging existing unnecessary burdens by introducing this article into the Copyright and Related Rights Act, it is actually more of a damage than a benefit. By adopting such an article, therefore a catering facility, a hairdresser's salon if it wants to give magazines, newspapers, means it should be addressed to a new association similar to ZAMP, probably the Association of Newspapers, ask for approval and pay a certain fee. So, here we are not talking about the desire to reduce the value or need of valorizing the effort, work and works of journalists, columnists and those in the form of collective implementation of copyright fees, but here is the fact that we are paying attention to the fact that by voting this article in this form we will actually vote on additional responsibilities and burdens for business entities. In addition, it is very likely that individual publishers will lose a niche of whether it is necessary for the placement of their own and knowledge in printed form so that in the end they will not only be entrepreneurs at loss but also publishers, especially in this way and in such a way as to buy less and less magazines, more and more cross online, but in this way, even fewer publishers would kill themselves to the end. We don't understand how this would be done in practice, who would follow, who had any magazines, how many magazines, what was with professional free magazines, and whether they were brought by guests of these objects and left behind, what was with the phones and tablets on which the press was available, so that the collected money would also be distributed to publishers, journalists, songwriters, and to make use of it, who would manage it and how. So here's what we're going to propose is an amendment to remove this new parafiscal imposition from this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59954	Thank you, too. Now it's Mr. Eric Fabianic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59955	Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. This topic about copyright is an extremely serious topic and, as I said, it is a great effort and work, through two readings a series of associations have been involved, we have there different stakeholders what we like to say today because there is a big money in the game, and in the media it is perhaps even the smallest money compared to the discographers. But I'll start with a joke, and he inspired me, inspired me. The 100th law, at least as proposed, says that by de facto employer's contract of work, can de facto end and translate this journalistic text, so I will begin with a translation from a daily press release in Croatia in the early '90s. The article said that there are mujahedins in Italy who even have their own public message, called Fata’s Hand. When we translate Fata's hand then we will know that Fata's hand is Mano di Fata, and Mano di Fata, today we have Google, in the early '90s we didn't have it, bought by many Croatian women, and also some men because it's a magazine that deals with handicrafts, from rod, braiding, etc.. So, I can't allow as the author of some journalistic article to take place without my consent, especially today when we have google translates whether the meaning of my translation, my article as an author will be really good and translated. Although we understand each other, the Italianist at the Zagreb University de facto has the highest quality translations in the world, but... Have the vice president deny me, but that's the way it is. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59956	I don't read Mani di Fata.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59957	Okay. Okay. In any case, we have another situation, and that is, without the author's consent that one text can be shortened. So we understand that we have a media space limited in paper media, but the paper media is in our phase, in the phase of disappearing, who works in the newsroom knows that some text has to be shorted out, but then the boss of the board or editor is working with the journalist. And in any case, there is no common right to be signed or not signed, a journalist is always signed, possibly if there is a shorter or smaller text going to the initials. Unsigned text is signed by the editor. Therefore, the text is always signed, the only question is who answers for it. If my text has been changed journalistically in a way that he changes the thing I described or wrote that moment I have the right to deny the editor my signature or if it's about the show, the editorship of that show. Well, you see, according to that, in what I just said, which is contained in art. In the 100th, the current press rights, the valid press rights that I said and not for the first time because I also highlighted them in the debate, are not contained in the Copyright Act. I welcome the ministry's and ministry's efforts to regulate copyright, press copyrights are regulated in what should be the main copyright code, but that does not mean that it has not been regulated so far. These copyrights are defined in the Media Act. If they are defined in the Media Act, these provisions of the law as soon as they enter into force, they will be in conflict with what is described in the Media Act and will then be asked which rights will apply. And that's the key question. But what's... is next. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, under the exception of the implementation of the copyright directive of the European Parliament, we are going to compromise something that is the normal European copyright of European journalists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59958	Thank you very much. You have no replicas. Now it's Mrs. Vesna Bedekovic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59959	Thank you very much, esteemed Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear Minister, Madam Director, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. So there is no longer any longer after here a rather long discussion of the doubt that it is a very complex law that regulates the mutual rights and obligations of a large number of stakeholders in different sectors, and we have really talked a lot about different rights and obligations between different stakeholders in different sectors, so authors, artists, biographers, journalists, publishers, architects, actors and all other stakeholders in the field of creative cultural and media industry, but today we have not talked about one area which is well solved as regards the protection of copyright and related rights, which is an area of education and science. And so here I would take advantage of the opportunity to do a brief review and to note that we have really been aware of these days and months, we have indeed been covered by various letters, e-mails and lobbying, and we have done individual group discussions on committees etc., but we have not received a single letter so that no one in the field of education and science is addressed, so here are some of the provisions that some articles of the law that I will say, for the first time, and newspapers are in relation to the existing law, that they are good and that in a good and quality way they solve the area of copyright and related rights in the field of education and science, so just let me mention, very soon I will, as long as it allows me, so the question of solving of copyright and copyright created by scientists, teachers and high school associates, it is regulated by art. 110, therefore, where copyright of works created by scientists, co-workers and teachers are chosen in scientific, artistic and teaching, scientific, teaching, collaboration and professional titles, that they belong to their authors without restriction unless by means of a contract whether work or other act governing a working relationship or a collective contract is different, where, therefore, high schools and scientific organisations can adopt certain rules on their internal management of copyrights and related copyrights at a higher school or scientific or research organisation. What the paper is and for the first time in history I would say to this law that we know was passed in 2003, we have a newspaper in terms of art. 187, 188, and as regards the mining of text and data for the purpose of scientific research, which is, in accordance with the provisions of this law, permitted, is, without the authorisation of the rightholder and without the payment of compensation, of course, for the purposes of scientific research. Then what I find to be extremely important, important, art. In 199, the use of the authorial work in digital and cross-border continues, so this is proof of the adjustment of the time of this law, the digital age in which we live. What is next newspaper, very important and important to me, is the copyright of students, art. 111 through a series of items where copyrights are therefore created by students at higher schools, they belong to authors without restrictions unless, of course, by law or contract of study or by some other contract, it is different. It is clearly defined as what the works of the students, so seminar works, final works, graduate works, works created as a result of participation in some research, etc. and where it is clearly regulated that higher universities are making their internal rules on the handling of student work, which I find extremely important and important and it is regulated public publication of student finals, graduates' work on high-school network sites, so in repositories, which I think is extremely important in that regard, Respected Minister, I honor and commend the introduction of these provisions into the law. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59960	Time, stay, because you have one replica of Mr. Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59961	Thank you very much, Chairman. My colleague, what you have pointed out is that this law is much broader than we may have been able to hear in today's debate. Regarding this part of which you have now said about part of the educational institutions, this is what the institutions of the activities of preserving cultural heritage are bound to do. I think it's as important as our scientists who are world-famous is also known as the cultural heritage of the Republic of Croatia that extends far into history. And here's what you'd like to hear about that part of the novelty in the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59962	Thank you. Please respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59963	Thank you very much. Dear fellow, I really thank you for this question because here today we really haven't talked about the area, the sectoral area we're going to call it so to call education and science because we've just been really swamped these days by different lobbying about this second part of what I don't think is less important, so that simply the perception of the public has been designed in a way that this law covers only this area of authors, performers, biographers, journalists, publishers, actors, etc. This remains on the sidelines, and it's extremely important. So look, not just science and education, cultural heritage that's our identity, if we're not going to take care of the protection of cultural heritage, then we're in terms of adapting to the new age in which we live, then we're going to have very big, big problems in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59964	Thank you very much. You don't have any more replicas. Thank you. And now it's Mrs. Dalia Oreshkovic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59965	The chairman, my fellow MPs and MPs. First of all, I'm going to apologize to my colleague Jelkovac, maybe I've been too hasty, I've concluded that you really don't understand what this is all about, so I'm really going to try to show you some of the things vividly how at least those representatives who are legal professions or I can understand some legal postulates wouldn't lead to the shame of the entire HS when some of the basic things haven't been able to understand a true minister. So do we understand the concept of retroactive application? You say you don't see her in this law. [[Intruder Radin: This was supposed to be an apology?]] Yeah. [[Intruder Radin: This was supposed to be an apology?]] So, says the title of the article to exercise copyright for audiovisual works that are in place, wait wrongly. So, Art. I have a lot of paper with me, so I didn't take it, so we're talking about retroactive application of what it actually consists of, which requires changing the content of the contract within a certain deadline. What does that mean in practice? So, as the performers conclude with the discographers, a particular contract which they transferred the rights to exploit their work to the discographers. We can compare this to the situation where you buy a car from a seller and imagine that you bought a particular car 3, 5 or 10 years ago and thus obtained the right to drive that car indefinitely and now enters into force a law that says that within a certain time you and the seller, or you as a buyer, have the right to make a new contract with the seller to redefine the price of that car. If you don't, then some collective organization will negotiate the price of a car that you already paid once. Now that's what's actually being introduced with the provision of an article. The 306th century of the 5th century, and this is what is, on the legal side of this law, deeply problematic and deeply controversial, and we cannot defend any postulate, or any reason the minister has called for. In principle, if we were to say that by changing the digital age, the nature and purpose of the contract changed and that there were new circumstances for which we should protect the performers, there is again no reason to apply such an institute because we already have the Law on Mandatory Relations, which has beautifully defined so-called ". The clause rebus sic stantibus, it's a clause that says that in case they're after the contract. And once again, I point out the Pact of Sunt Servanda, so if, after the conclusion of the contract, some new circumstances have arisen that significantly alter the conditions under which the contract was concluded and significantly create some kind of imbalance between the Contracting Parties at that time, according to the already established prerogatives and provisions of the laws which have been in practice for decades and decades, the party considered injured, in this case would be performers, may request the termination or amendment of that contract. At that time, the law already provides for what circumstances the Court takes into account in order to restore the balance between either the termination of the contract or the modification of the contract. Among other things, he looks at financial contracts, among other things looking at the principle of conscience and honesty, looking at the duration of the contract, looking at what its purpose is, so they have already developed in practice some criteria that the court would then apply and do what it takes to be an example. Instead of respecting our legal system, legal tradition, and already some criteria that have been objectively and proved in practice, we cut it off and said more and the court is not worth anything, we will now establish an organisation that will collectively negotiate on behalf of the performer. It is not that these performers acquire something in particular, in fact, the legal system will only introduce one mediator, one association that instead of the performers getting more pick up one part of the cream for themselves than themselves. And when we talk about why this would be a disgrace to the Republic of Croatia, so among other things, the minister did not say exactly when she said that we are not transposing the directive, namely, it is directly contrary to what it says in the light of this law in the part relating to this provision, so we explicitly call on the whole of this article to be transposed in a way by the directive into the Croatian legal order, and the directive itself says that it does not question acts concluded before 7 June 2021.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59966	Thank you. Mr. Habian, where's the injured Rules of Procedure please?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59967	Thank you very much, Vice President. A colleague hurt her ankle. The 238th century 1st indent 5 in a way that degrades the MP present here in a way that imputed that someone here doesn't understand something under the cover of an apology has actually repeated everything she has said before and I think it was in such a way that she hurt the Rules of Procedure, and you could also tell me that colleague Oreshkovic does not understand the provisions of the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest since she clearly did not understand Article. 5. and that is why we now have many legal problems with the application of the laws themselves, which is also indicated by the high administrative court, if this is how we will discuss it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59968	Mr. Habian, what you're saying is, he's holding the water, but that's, if we didn't do it before the Rules of Procedure, if no one had reported that we were giving a warning, this was now said in an ironic way which was a Boardline to say so, and I wouldn't have been inclined to give this notice with the fact that I absolutely didn't approve of it, so I asked if it should be an apology, Mrs. Oreshkovic said yes, so I'll consider that it was an apology to that other part, anyway, this one would have made me laugh at my colleague Oreskovic to give her a warning right now. Sir, I won't give you a warning either, of course, because you're not wrong. Mr. Pavić, come in. - Mrs. Crescent. [[Intruder: No, Jelkovac]] Jelkovac, the same breach of the Rules of Procedure? Replica? [[Intruder: No, replica]] And now, I see, thank you, forgive me, it's my fault.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59969	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, I accept your apology even though it wasn't sincere, but that's what we'll do with coffee if God can solve it. As for your understanding, I'd say you didn't read it right. It does not say anywhere that there is an obligation to make new contracts, but rather an obligation to comply with the contract, whether it will be by harmonising the amendments and by supplementing the existing contract or by making a new contract, it is not defined here. On the other hand, your example of comparing this situation where we prescribe new circumstances to regulate the use of copyright in this way with the conclusion of a re-contract for the purchase of a car that has nothing to do with each other, the purchase of a car has nothing to do with copyright and copyright. What we're regulating here is because so far there have been different conditions, there's been a lot of things when it was done, today it's not like that, there are digital technologies, and because of these things, it's changing, in order to coordinate, the way of regulation and monitoring of the author's work is changing.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59970	Time, thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59971	Thank you. Well, first of all, it's a great honor that you've done a very good job of making the Rules of Procedure look bad. No, I'm sorry, replica, sorry, sorry, I'm tired and hungry, so you gave me a chance to answer unlike my colleague, a male colleague who served himself by hurting the Rules of Procedure knowing that I can't answer that. [[I didn't do any damage to the Rules of Procedure, I did.]] So, as far as you're concerned, it's an honor to congratulate you on that. As far as the essence is concerned, we can ask any judge in the Republic of Croatia what it is about when circumstances have changed and we can really ask all the legal authorities what they think about whether there is a retroactivity here yes or no. Finally, if our courts, if the full and constitutional court, and it would not have been the first time that he had failed to comply with the principles relating to the Tomislav Karamark case, here at least, here at least more than one directive, and whether Croatia correctly transposed that directive into the Croatian legal order will ultimately say something relevant European courts, so I would not like us all to be ashamed there by pretending that we did not understand in what way this provision would reflect contracts that had already been concluded and consumed.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59972	Time. Željko Pavić, a respected representative of the next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59973	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, in the last few months we've done a lot of meetings, about 11 meetings I've done myself and my fellow clubmates and vice presidents together with us and alone with various authors and performers and biographers, they were the loudest and were the most dissatisfied with this law. Unfortunately, I had to consult my colleagues and friends who were lawyers because I couldn't interpret everything I got in my remarks. So I got an interpretation that this provision actually prescribes retroactive application of the law that is contrary to the directive and to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Secondly, I received an interpretation that it comes from the assumption that there are no regulated rights, rights of recording between music publishers and performers. Furthermore, this proposal of the law deprives the right of ownership of the recordings. Furthermore, the Republic of Croatia intervenes in private legal relations between performers and music, music publishers. So that's what you were saying, and now that I didn't know what it was about, I asked the board and I got the answer I got.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59974	Time. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59975	Unfortunately, a lot of what you have said is actually more or less true and it is visible from the plane, for it is not necessary to be any expert, after all very soon if in this form the law is adopted it will be seen in practice, and I would not like it to happen in practice because other than that it really undermines some legal basis not only of the Republic that are the basic postulates that are in the entire continental legal system which has taken a lot of it from the time of Roman law we are simply denying, while not protecting the rights and interests of all interested parties. And I'm just going to comment on these meetings of yours, the fact that this law has led to a whole series of meetings with MPs and committee clubs, it's lobbying, but this is an example of a good particular lobbying where it was in everyone's best interest to keep the representatives well informed about the background of the problem that arises from one law, and I'm sorry that the hearing didn't have a resolution minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59976	Next individual debate, respected Vice President Miroslav Škoro.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59977	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Now listening to this last thing we've been listening to, I've generally been following this debate, it turns out that we actually need to preserve the situation and challenge people's property and everything they've done together because there's nothing we can do about it. And that reminds me all together maybe of some debate, I have it in my head, which was run there in 1557, when Queen Mary and King Philip were dissatisfied with what was written about her, so she decided to put all the printing machines under control. Did Gutenberg build a machine, so when he built a machine, they said, "Yeah, who's right about that now, who's got a machine or someone who feeds a machine with some kind of material?" So 1710. So in the 18th century, you have Queen Anna, who finally shifts her statutes to the authors and says it's not the man who has the machine but the man who fed the machine with some sort of content. Immanuel Kant also wrote about these things and he said metaphysically miraculously lamentating on the subject that there is an author, there is a publishing, its publisher and there is some kind of printer, it's a conversation that we are now talking about in some way and the level of conversation that we are talking about here today. The question of all the questions is who runs the creative process, who runs the creative process, who owns the discographic house, someone who has a CD machine, someone who has a plastic spraying machine, and then builds a record, does it run a creative process, or does someone who creates something in their head that didn't exist by then, and does it actually have any right to compensation? Is the music that was written, and it wasn't performed, did it happen at all, is the music that was performed when it was written, and no one heard it, did it happen? These are all philosophical issues and these are all situations in which we in some way recognize the players of the music industry, and I have already talked about it, and we are talking about the same thing all the time today. The key problem of this law is individual and collective law, it's a key problem, there's no other problem. Individual law is the right that every performer has been used so far, I would even say that is the case when fellow journalists are concerned, so he's working it out with some publisher, and that's his deal. But collective law is a right that has been established because it's too many users and you don't get to follow them all, that's the whole story. The appearance of the internet has increased the number of users to entu potential. If we agree that everyone should be compensated for their work and for their property, then we have no problems at all, we just need to see what is the way in which the people who own or created the work or did it. Discographers have their rights, money now collects and goes exclusively to the biographies. I'm a discographer, I'm telling you that. When some money came in, someone was talking about a member of the tambourine band, so like him, like, 100, I don't know, he didn't get anything. He didn't get anything because he was four years old. raised a streaming 140 kuna, that's a fact. I, as a discographer, responds to the model by which every performer, every member of a mixed choir, each member of a symphony orchestra for its recorded performance that is reproduced will receive compensation, but can't get it in this system like this, simply can't we talk about amounts on the fifth decimal of 0.00004, that's the amount we're talking about and there's just playing great multipliers, nothing else, let's not kid ourselves. I'm 2017. Scientifically proven that this problem cannot be solved differently than through the collective protection system and it will be so, whether it will solve blockchain or something less important, but it will be so... said the Art. 306 is crazy because if there are contracts that have something going on why we're going to revise them, but if there's no payouts based on those contracts, then there's no contract and now we're going to give someone another 3 years. That he takes that money, and he doesn't deserve it. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So either you have contracts, show them right now and start respecting them, that's the whole story. We need to know every last player who played something or anyone not to talk to a journalist, a journalist who also has his rights. So that's the whole story, either there's a contract, or there's no contract, there's no 3rd-years, there's so much, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59978	Final debates are the first respected representative of Dalia Oreskovic on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59979	I wanted to talk about another subject, but I have to go over what Vice President Skoro said because he threw a big fog at the bottom of it. So it's not just about the system of individual and collective bargaining, but that really... about, for example, that once the song sold was once a song, for which the performer passed his performance copyright on to another permanently untimely one, it is a one-time service. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] What we're now, say, in this segment where we've been saying lately, what we're saying now in the digital age has changed the circumstances, this song is now exploiting some new media and we're now introducing a commitment, a commitment, however you say it is, essentially, that you're asking for this contract to be revised. What does it mean to revise the contract? So either we've made a new one that introduces the re-payment obligation of once-purchasing and sold songs, if it's not done within 3 years, then the collective association will negotiate on behalf of that artist and take a nice sum with it. And then what's the problem with this law? Well, it's the same as in all the other laws of this minister's portfolio, whether it's the HRT Act, whether it's the Law on Electronic Media that we're going to talk about after this debate, the problem is that principles and all the law and everything should go from principle and these principles should be consistent and not. Last week we talked about the Minimum Salary Act and what is the principle in that law, what did the government say? She said we support the model of collective bargaining, so we'll ask workers and employers to make nice collective arrangements, and if they don't agree, then we as legislators will see what we're going to do and how we're going to do. It's a simplified version, but that's the point. And what have we done in this law? We did not apply that same principle, but we said, "Well, you can collectively negotiate it, but if you fail to agree, there will be no legislator, and there will be no court, as the court would have ruled that we have not intervened at all in this law, but would have served the Law of Mandatory Relations and, based on already built practice, brought some kind of new fair compensation for the party considered to be damaged, it would have been the performers here. So we didn't go that way, but we said and then the price will be determined by a collective negotiator, or in this case, by the contractors' association. Now, that's what's controversial. We've given power, autonomous power in the hands of a contractor who can practically do whatever he wants, it'll be what they say. And now to caricate, to invent a situation in which Škoro, for example, sold a song 10 years ago for 100,000 euros, so he may be relatively well compensated, according to this law after three years if a new contract was not concluded, then the collective association for the protection of the performer will say, and now given the new digital age, we explicitly determine that the song is worth 500 000 euros. That's what he's doing here, and it's a violation of principle, and it's a retroactive intrusion in the relationship that comes from the contract, from the contracts that have been concluded long ago. And why is that really controversial? It is as controversial as the minister of this situation knew, as most of the MPs, to whom one party spoke and persistently, so there is a need to watch that hodogram of activity, to watch what was the first reading of the law, which was, in fact, the first proposal of the working group, which was in public consultation, so otherwise defined relations. After that, the new rules that were agreed and designed, where? Somewhere in the halls. In essence, why do I insist so much on the provisions of this law? Not because I think she's the main focal point, no, but from her it turns out that the power of decision is practically somewhere else. Not in the Croatian Parliament, not in that the public debate requires a fair and balanced balance between different stakeholders, but somewhere in the rooms, somewhere in circles, so whoever likes the minister the most and whispers most in her ear, his rights will be protected in a stronger and unfair way in the provisions of the law. Well, I don't thank such a legislative process, especially if today-to-morrow we'll all be together as a state because of such a single law we'll get a puck. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59980	The next final debate on behalf of the HSS and RF Representatives Club, representative Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59981	Here, I'll try for the end. I didn't really mean to look at the very style of this debate and the debate that went in one direction but I really can't look back in the way that Minister Nina Oblisen Koržinek debated in the Assembly, I don't think it's acceptable for the president of a journalist's association to be shown as a person who didn't simply understand and who everyone thought things were standing but she continued to insist on her interpretation, which was simplified and summed up what the minister said several times, and she's not there, and we can't even discuss it with her, but if we came here to discuss the law that each interpretation is valid. In any case, several MPs here including me referred to the same remarks coming from journalists and journalists' associations, and so did counterpart Fabianic read the article. 100 which points us to one interpretation of the denial of copyright but I will list a few more articles that I have not reached in the debate, to see that this is a tendency throughout the law, to actually go on what is more or less to the American legislation that disowns the author and property while continental European legislation automatically recognises the author's authorship. So it's not quite possible to say that what the minister said, that we followed that article, which was reserved only for the authorial work created in a work relationship, as if this author's work was created in a working relationship completely discrediting for the author or author in a working relationship, has no right, because let's just say it was already paid by salary. In any case, we also have an art. 93 paragraph 1 which reads: If an audio-visual production contract between an audio and a visual producer and an author of a contribution is not defined differently, the audio and visual producer shall be deemed to acquire all the property rights of the use of the author of the contribution within the scope necessary to meet the purpose of the contract. Here the minister said that okay, so audio and visual production is one thing, journalists are the other, but we tend so through law, so I read articles in order, a few. So we have this article 100, paragraph 2, which reads: If the working contract or other act governing a working relationship or other contract concluded between the author and the employer is not otherwise defined, it is considered that the employer, here is the employer, there was the producer of the employer who acquired the sole copyright of the exploitation of the copyright created in the work relationship, the content in the scope needed to achieve the activity he performs and without a spatial and time limit independently of the termination of the working relationship during which the work took place. Furthermore, we have a similar destination in art. 167 when using copyright works in digital and cross-border setting. So, even though it is in the directive in Art. The 5th Directive, which is reflected here, states that Member States can provide for fair compensation for rightholders, authors and publishers, our legislator did not provide for compensation for the use of copyright works in a digital and cross-border setting. To such a legal solution recently the letter to the legislator responded.../The speaker speaks English./... The international collective protection organisation's association of authors' and publishers' rights with 158 members from 85 countries. I will note that the legal solution should include fees and collective licensing. So that question whose author's work is it? The author's work should be the work of the author, regardless of the terms of the contract, of the kind of artist and of the author to whom it relates. I will say just one more thing that I did not arrive at in the debate, which is what the Croatian Journalists' Union has pointed out, which opposes the fact that in the law the acts governing copyright relations are left out of the collective contract and demanded that the collective contract be included among the documents governing the appropriate fee to the author and also the Croatian Journalist Society noticed that an unclear part of the law in which it is defined is often said, an appropriate and proportionate fee. This term is not precise enough for them, and it needs to be defined. They feel that it is unclear in the context of the term, which is an important contribution, that is something they have mentioned themselves that should be clarified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59982	The next final debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, a respected representative, Vesna Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59983	Thank you very much. The Honorable Vice President of HS, the Honorable Minister, Madam Director, dear colleagues and colleagues. This is because we are already filling the sixth hour of today's debate on the Law of Copyright and Related Rights I will indeed, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HDZ, briefly try to sum up in a few sentences everything I think and I think it is important to say in the final word regarding the Law of Copyright and Related Rights and to say that it is really a complex law, both in terms of matter and content. What's the point and what's important to say is that this law actually makes adjustments to the new digital age that we live in, and we have to adapt. And, of course, this law requires modernising the national system of protection of copyright and related rights in accordance with the needs of modern digital society, as well as the development of an appropriate EU legal framework, and in this respect we are in line with two directives, a Directive on copyright and related rights on the single digital market and this other directive laying down rules in the exercise of copyright and related rights. Therefore, the extensive public debate with thousands of pages of comments lasted 30 days, so additional consultations after the adoption of this law, this proposal in the first reading and two thematic sessions of the Committee on Information, Information and Media, one with discographers and the other with journalists and publishers. And I really think that a lot of work has been put into the creation of this law and, of course, we must be aware of the facts and say that, with all our efforts and communication and listening to all the stakeholders, we must say that not even all the interested stakeholders could really agree with each other and find a quality solution and have indeed remained firmly buried in their views and for whatever reason I really need to reiterate that this bill is a good compromise between all stakeholders in different sectors and a good framework for regulating mutual rights and obligations between different stakeholders. And I have to point out, I disagree with a colleague who said there would be bias here, so I have to point out, and I believe that this compromise has been made precisely without bias towards any group or category of stakeholders and without investing in mutual relations between different stakeholders. Of course, this law as well as any other will prove to be in practice, but I am certainly convinced that its adoption will provide clearer rules for copyright protection and related rights appropriate for the application of the digital environment, that greater legal certainty will be achieved and that this law will certainly contribute to the economic sustainability of the creative, cultural and media industries and certainly preserve cultural heritage, without distorting freedom of expression and other interests of users of digital content and services. And in that sense, I invite you all to support this law and to support it in voting on the final proposal of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59984	Following is the final debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, respected representative Eric Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59985	Dear Vice President, honourable ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. In the first part of my individual debate, I referred to a journalistic section that is related to journalistic rights, journalistic copyrights, but I will now put it in that broader context that is related to the European Directive on Copyright, which is voted on by the EU Parliament, so that they know what the meaning of the law here is. This was also the case during the first wave of the pandemic, among other things because it was, regulation of these copyrights and regulation and accountability and distribution, what is quality, timely and true information and today, the EU Parliament is dealing with fake news, i.e. works of copyright that are not covered by this Act, but also works on the part that is related to social networks. Whether it's Facebook or some other, totally irrelevant. But if we were to sum up what the EU's parliament wanted? The EU Parliament wanted to control the way service information is placed within the EU very specifically, Google News. Because this means that we have articles that users in the Republic of Croatia can read independently about the publisher, regardless of the author, and that's the only thing that makes money. And that there is no author or publisher in the EU about this, so I will stick to what I may know because I was also a member of the Croatian Journalist Society Executive Board and also a member of the Croatian Journalist Union in several terms. Then it wasn't, however, there was internet, there was no social network, but the situation essentially, when we talk about information, didn't change. So the information is news, it stays like that, it has its copyright, it's only trivial, but really trivial, which changes, it changes the way it's transferred. Once we had a long time ago, two centuries ago just paper, then we got the radio, so we got the TV, and now we have the Internet, portals and a whole series of other publications. And that's how it works today. They lose as much as we do a small country, and because of Croatian language, we are not as dispersive in reading our news, but the fact is that this is why the publishers lose. Loses and authors of these publishers regardless of whether they are in a working relationship or not. What remains of the EU's dilemma in parliament is the issue of distribution between authors, we can call them workers, nothing against and publishers. And that's what's been ordered by local legislation, respecting, let's say, the sovereignty of a Member State, but also, to transfer a hot potato, but as if every country has its own legislative architecture that will solve these relations, and that's why we, I, we're having a lot of debate today, and that's how it is. Spain made the first adjustment, 21 more. .../incomprehensible/... excuse me, 4.11.2014 their law came into force, so it's been six years since then, but if you're going to Spain, for that reason you can't, so the Spanish don't have Google news. So Google simply shut down that service. I'm not saying it has to be abolished in Croatia, but in any case, it has to pay for something. But he also has to pay the author whether he's in a working relationship or not, and he has to pay him, thank God and the publisher. And that's what the opposition is. For this reason, I stress that there would be no misinformation, in the EU parliament as part of the coup, was part of the Social Democrats, did not vote on the bill, which still passed most of the votes Why? [[Intruder: Time.]] Because those who voted against, they felt that the authors They're not protected enough. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59986	The next final debate is on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club of Representatives, Honored Vice President of the Parliament Miroslav Škoro.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59987	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ma'am. Minister, you're as fast as the wind, I'm glad you're back for the closing word. So the thesis of one was that the mediator would earn, and the author and performer wouldn't because the mediator would take that money, so why wouldn't the author, the performer, get it directly? That's not true. Only someone who doesn't understand the system of collective protection can say that. The level of cost of collective protection in Croatia, at least ranging from about 11, 12% in the record, over 23 points somewhat linear with the author and so on in the same place as the performer. They can't happen to lose because they don't get anything right now. So if someone creates them added value and takes for it a certain amount of compensation as a cost it's the usual thing in the collective protection system. What I'm also saying is that we haven't mentioned this one moment, and it can be obvious and read from many biographies, many famous compositions of the world, from Rolling Stones, Pink Floyd and beyond, so some of the conversations I personally had with the greats of Croatian music, and I was in that situation myself, when a man is young, he doesn't think too much about contracts and doesn't do some things that pro futuro should provide him with income. That's a fact. He is happy that an act took place in which his authorial work came to life in public. Let's not punish them for that. These performers who are individually agreed, they range from some 3, 4, 5, to a maximum of 6% to an incredible 40%. I know that, I was a witness that top Croatian performers got just as much to publish some of their work for certain discographers and the fact is, if a collective protection system was introduced, that those who are now getting 40, and maybe more percent, of those usual 5, 6, would be denied, but they should be left behind and the possibility of agreeing individually, but we're talking about those other musicians, we're talking about following musicians. No Skora, no dead Ivo Robic, no Teresa Kesova without accompanying musicians. They don't exist. I've concentrated more on music because I come from this world so don't mind me, however, you following musicians to a popular performer, going at least 5, 6, 7. In the studio and more. So, they're the ones who should be compensated because they're currently unable to record any discographers or anyone else to pay them anything. Why? Because mostly you don't know, the biographers don't even have that database. You don't know they played. They're thought to have been decomposed on a flat-rate basis, they got, I don't know, 50, 100 of something, units of money, and they were once solved. But the one-time solution to this situation is actually an exception and it shouldn't be a rule. In that sense, contracts are the basis for any fee. We heard that different thesis about these contracts, however, the contracts definitely didn't predict the formats we have today. And any change in format should be regulated by some new contract. So let's go back to maybe the measure of things, which is that the Copyright and Related Rights Act is not only protecting the main performers. He protects all those performers who have found any, in any role, at any performance and all have the right to compensation, however, they cannot get that fee because if the contract is the basis for payment, this contract either does not exist or they are not on that contract or, ultimately, you have no one to conclude the contract with because we were saying that there is actually one dispute over the biggest catalogue in the Republic, which is the catalogue which is the judicial decision disputed by the largest Croatian discographer. So these are the situations we have to discuss. The minister still thinks we should see, you weren't there, so I'll repeat, that famous article. 306, if there are contracts, okay, if there isn't, let's not prolong that agony to wait another three years because there and standing nice in that law, that if it isn't, we'll go towards the collective system. Well, I once again appeal as someone who is personally interested in all three aggregate states, let's think about it all together and see if there's a possibility that these people who aren't currently on any contracts can get some compensation without waiting another three years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59988	The next final debate is on behalf of the Green-Left bloc's Green-Left Club, the distinguished representative Damir Bakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59989	Thank you, Vice President, dear Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here's a lot of things today, a lot of things being said today, a lot of things being repeated and repeated, so I'm not going to repeat everything I've said on behalf of the club. In fact, I'd only be stuck on one single subject that seems particularly important to me, and I think, as much as I've been able to monitor today's debate, even though I haven't been here the whole time, I don't think there's been a lot of words about it today. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. The 301st century 1 refers to the audiovisual works that occurred before 1990 in the archives of HRT and these works, it is said further in this article, representing, of course, cultural well-being. It is further said that producers of these works can submit any evidence of the right to do so and can do so within 2 years, and if they do not, regardless of what reason, Article. 303 says we're property rights to these works, these audiovisual works belong to HRT. I stress, it's not just television, it's also cinematographic works. Next, according to Art. 302 again, regardless of whether they appeared or did not report, and then the rights went to HRT, HRT all of those audiovisual works were created before the '90s. which is in the archive, is authorised to multiply, distribute, broadcast, re-emission, etc. Once again, it's not just television works, it's also cinematographic. We find that inappropriate. You can't see the reason why HRT would have just inherited all the cinematographic structure that was created before 1990. for the restoration and revitalisation of cinematographic works and for the practice of their distribution. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, we believe that care for cinematographic heritage should be entrusted to the Croatian Audiovisual Centre and to the restoration that should be made in accordance with the highest standards both in terms of distribution and with concerns about the exercise of rights and producers and all coauthors and actors. artist of the performer. We believe that cinematographic audiovisual works should be excluded from Article 301 to 303. limit the range of these articles to television works only. And in that sense, we're going to propose as I said, we're going to propose an appropriate amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59990	Final debate on behalf of the promoter, Ms Nina Obulen Koržinek.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59991	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I thank all MPs and MPs who participated in this debate today and in the debate in the first reading and in all the quality discussions we had on the board, on committees. So let me, in conclusion, try to sum up in some way this really long way to the creation of this law, which, as you yourself have more or less all said in your performances for this speaker, is indeed a very complex document. From the very beginning, the Republic of Croatia has been very actively involved in the negotiations on the directive. We were one of the most powerful and strong countries in favour of raising the standards of copyright protection. And we have been among those countries that have even blocked further negotiations on this directive in several cases, wanting to ensure that Member States get a space within which they will be able to choose the best protection regimes in their national legislation and to protect content makers or copyright holders. And that's exactly what we've done with this law. What I think is missing is to be registered, and what is very important for the understanding of this law and the provisions that we have decided that although it fully regulates the issue of copyright and related rights, within each segment of cultural and creative industries, the market for these rights is extremely specific and therefore also relates between stakeholders in that market both within Croatia and abroad must be regulated in a different way. And that's why it's incomparable, for example. treat actors and performers, compare journalists and authors, etc., because each of them, if we can call them micro worlds of micromarkets, has some specific rules. In that sense, this law is in some parts more liberal, and in some parts more restrictive than what we had before. It is more liberal in the first row in terms of the right to use different copyrights protected in education and research matters. I was surprised, therefore, that some of the representatives who themselves were university professors advocated that such facilities, which are served in the process of education and science, were likely to be charged. In that sense it was highlighted some specific areas and topics, we listened well to the debates in the first reading, we developed provisions concerning architects, we continued communication with producers, directors, with those involved in the creation of audiovisual works. It is not clear to us that it is not understood that the intention of the provision is related to the rich archive of HRT, not to have someone exercise some material rights at the expense of someone else, but precisely to make this extremely rich archive that was created at the time when all rights were not arranged available to the public and to use it in a way that serves what it was created, which is to serve the Croatian public. And at the time of digital platforms that can also serve in education systems, that can be used by Croats outside Croatia etc. There have been a lot of conversations here about journalists and publishers, we have one thing, we have offered one solution in this law that Croatian journalists and publishers together as our media industry will put in an incomparably better position than the aggregaters, compared to the platforms today. This is undoubtedly confirmed by the fact that one of those who advocated some different solutions were just the representatives of these platforms that today use all these contents without providing any Croatian publisher or journalist with one single lip. One of the topics that may have taken up most of the space this whole time is the subject of the relationship between the phonogram manufacturer and the performer. I would like to remove any doubt that we have offered a solution that is either against the constitution or that retroactively reduces someone's rights or gives someone else the rights they didn't have. With this arrangement we simply fill the space that was empty, the space in which it appeared to the third as if the rights were arranged and in reality these rights were not arranged and the performers that the directive and recognises as a weaker corner 9rm actually did not exercise the rights. Finally, taking into account the development and speed of change in the digital market, this law wanted to achieve a clear line of separation between those copyrights of protected content used for public needs, therefore not commercially, which was created very often by public investment and which, as such, must be as accessible as possible on the other hand, and the lines set up by those holders of copyright and related rights that do not have other sources of income or majority, given the change in the way cultural and creative industries are distributed, begin to depend precisely on the digital use of older models, command sales, live performances, concerts, etc., and ensure that, in such negotiations with those who distribute their content digitally, they are in a better position to be protected in the long term, and that they can achieve some income that will enable them to continue to create and, in fact, enrich our culture and naturally, all our creative content. We will, of course, consider all the amendments that have been submitted, but I would like to say from this place once again that the adoption of this law required a lot of listening to the various stakeholders, requested an attempt to reach a compromise where the stakeholders could not agree, but believe in these almost 2 years of this process, a lot of stakeholders who began and at even more distant positions than those mentioned today, through this process they found common language and found a quality compromise. I hope that this House of Highs will provide broad support for all of these reasons that I have stated to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u59992	With this, we've exhausted the debate, I'm closing the debate, we'll vote when the conditions are met. The next last item of the agenda is: - Final proposal of the Electronic Media Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 62 The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 62 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia 172.a. in conjunction with Art. 190. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply to this item of the agenda. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Information, Information and Media. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Your Honor, Minister Nina Obuljen Koržinek, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u60241	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs. At first, I would like to express my satisfaction that we are also discussing the Law on Electronic Media and the Law on Copyright and Related Rights on the same day because indeed these two regulations are largely connected and I think it is good that we actually managed to get to the Croatian Parliament at the same time. The Law on Electronic Media regulates the rights, obligations and responsibilities of legal and natural persons carrying out the activity of providing audio and audio-visual media services, electronic publications services and video-sharing platforms. This law comes at this moment before the Croatian Parliament, primarily because it transposes the provisions of the Audio-visual Media Services Directive, as well as the Directive on the Legal Protection of Services based on conditional access and services that provide conditional access and the work of the provisions of the Insurance and Comparative Advertising Directive, which is governed by the area of audio-visual media services. We also point out that this proposal is in line with the competent authorities and most of the comments and proposals you made in the first reading, including the proposals of the Committee on Legislatives, are included in the text. If we could somehow describe simply what this fundamental change is compared to the existing law, I would say that this law one way or another derivates linear media content while at the same time regulated non-linear media content that is actually being consumed more and more and we expect that rapid technological changes in the next 10 years will actually be almost entirely, if not completely replace what we have classically understood and followed as radio and television. What are key areas of regulation of this law, it is a question of the definition of media services, the definition of mechanisms for determining competence over media service providers. This law encourages media service providers to develop plans to make their services more accessible to disabled persons. More transparency is introduced in the publication of media service providers' data and related to the publication of the ownership structure. This will now be an obligation to publish on the website of the provider itself as well as on the publication of data related to the amounts and sources of funding, where ownership structures will prove to be derived from the register of real owners. More precisely, the existing obligation to spend 15% of the annual amount intended for promotion or advertising by the public administration, public institutions and institutions and legal persons in the majority of the ownership of the Republic of Croatia is defined and extended to electronic publications. Changes in the way the software base is calculated in a way that media service providers will have to specify 70% of the software base while they are allowed 30% to change and adapt to real daily events that are of particular interest to the public. The share of the total weekly programme, which must be dedicated to the notification of news and concession notices, shall be harmonised in accordance with the size of the concession area. The calculation of its own production is arranged which will be based on the weekly broadcasting time, and the seasonality of the calculation is introduced and the share will now be higher in so-called ‘.’. autumn, and smaller in so-called The summer scheme. Provisions concerning the obligations of electronic publications providers are strengthened, provisions concerning video-sharing services are introduced in accordance with the Directive, concentration issues are regulated. In this opening part, I might specifically mention those changes made between the first and second readings, which as I was saying, came from debates in this home. Therefore, the concept of a non-profit producer of an audiovisual or radio programme has been re-entered and they are allowed to apply for a tender for the allocation of funds of the Pluralism Facility. Then, on the basis of the debate, we delete the article, we propose to delete Article 16 which prescribed criteria that media service providers and electronic publications must meet, but it should be pointed out that erasing this article does not mean erasing the criteria since the basic postulates are prescribed in Article 15. As a newspaper, and in order to protect children and young people, it is an obligation to label the risk message of developing dependence on gambling and will have to be marked by a visual symbol, and for the same reason there are criteria for advertising energy drinks. In Article 39(2), an obligation has been added to the authorities of the state administration and public institutions to which the founder of the Republic of Croatia as well as legal persons owned or mostly owned by the Republic of Croatia, who spend the means of promoting or advertising their services or activities in audiovisual or radio programmes of regional and local radio and television broadcasters or providers of electronic publications, to publish those reports on their websites as well. It shall also be prescribed if the funding for the production and publication of the programme of regional and local publishers is provided in the budgets of the authorities of the state administration and public institutions to which the founder of the Republic of Croatia as well as legal persons owned or largely owned by the Republic of Croatia to the budgets of the units of local and regional self-government that these funds must be granted on the basis of a public call and on the basis of publicly published criteria. As regards unauthorised ownership changes, it should be pointed out that the prescribed restrictions on whose infringement leads to an unauthorised change in ownership and related to the protection of pluralism and diversity of electronic media, and the prescribed restriction applies to services on request and to media service providers that broadcast programmes via satellite, cable, internet and other permitted transmission forms as well as to related persons. In this regard, it will be considered that a media service provider has achieved a dominant role on the market if its share is 40% in the share of the annual revenues of all media providers of electronic publications in the field of the Republic of Croatia. The calculation will not take into account HRT revenues and, in that case, that publisher will no longer be able to acquire shares. Another topic that has taken up a lot of attention at the time of the first reading is the topic of vertical integration. As we have announced, this explicit ban has been deleted, however, it is a corrective obligation for TV broadcasters with a concession at the state level to publicly publish offers for the transfer of their non-payment television channels to all electronic communications operators providing payment services to end-users, but the total fee will be calculated by the council in cooperation with the Croatian Network Activities Agency. It should also be pointed out here that this proposal sets out the most important national non-payment channels, so concession publishers at national level from the package related to the other channels of the same publisher, thus ensuring their availability to all citizens under the obligation to re-emission electronic communications operators through which, as we know at this time, more than 50% of Croatian citizens are watching or monitoring television channels. This provision does not apply to HRT because they have a different regime, their obligations are arranged in another way. With regard to Art. In 94, which attracted a lot of attention in the first reading, which prescribed the responsibility of the electronic publications provider for the content generated by the user, so those collocchially called comments, we point out that, in cooperation with the Croatian Press Society and the Association of Newspapers, we have reformed the provision, it is now widely accepted and a clear commitment is made that the electronic publication provider is responsible for the entire published content, including the content generated by the user if it fails to register the user and if it is not in a clear and easy-to-see manner to warn the user of the rules of commenting and the breach of the prescribed provisions. I would point out in the end that the law lays down a whole series of provisions concerning the protection and promotion of Croatian cultural and creative industries, so we build on existing legislation, so I would point out that television publishers would be obliged to secure at least 5% of the total annual gross income that they achieved in the previous year by carrying out activities for the works of Croatian independent producers, starting with 2.5% and then having to reach 5%. In the same way as Croatian music, we increase the minimum share from 20% to 25%, with at least 20% being broadcast between 6 and 22 hours. The first reading also modified the obligation of media service providers to apply to the Republic of Croatia, whose business is established in the EU to pay not only a financial contribution to the implementation of the national programme in accordance with the Law on Audiovisual Activities but also to invest 2% of the total annual gross income in the production of Croatian audiovisual works by independent producers or to purchase produced Croatian audiovisual works. Finally, this final proposal introduces a new obligation in the event that an operator becomes an operator of a media broadcasting service via satellite, cable, internet and other permitted transmission forms in this case, and such operator must ensure that the share of Croatian independent producers in the annual audiovisual programme is at least 10% of the total annual gross income achieved in the previous year by carrying out the activity. I would just like to point out that we are among other things to implement these new rules concerning catalogues or public publishing of ownership, but also to another institute that will certainly contribute to the development of professional journalism and promote media literacy, which is the Institute of Media Fact Checks, etc. Facke verifiers also provided funding in the National Recovery and Resistance Plan so that we expect that all these provisions concerning the transparency of ownership will be implemented and in a way that we will indeed through very easy search and publicly available registers at any time have information on the basis of the register of real media owners, and that will certainly contribute to strengthening trust in the media. I hope so, and I believe you've studied this draft of the final bill and will give it support.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u60242	Here we have a lot of replicas, the first respected representative of Karolina Vidovic Kristo.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u60243	Thank you very much. Mrs. Koržinek is the state of nepotism on HRT where your best man Renato Kunić is the director of the program, and now the interim director for each is a conviction and, of course, it is totally unacceptable. The result of this non-poustic and anti-European situation is also the fact that HRT hired a compromised person of a certain Hrvoje Klasic, author of a pamphlet about a communist bully named Miki Špiljko, whom the Munich court has characterised as the client of a politically motivated murder. Tell me who gives you the right to 2021. in Croatia you promote retrograde totalitarian ideology and insult the academic community by engaging the compromised Klasic with which you insult all victims of communist terror?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u60244	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u60245	I thank you for this replica which, of course, is entirely and unfounded and untrue and malicious and malicious. So, there's no godfather who would be as you say the interim director of HRT, it's about a person who 30 years ago best man was my husband, which is a big difference. Secondly, you know very well that HRT is independent, while you work there you are quite free and independent of any pressures you have worked and I don't know why you think the situation is different today, and this law is not about HRT but about other electronic media. I assume you're familiar with the fact that there's a lex specialis for HRT.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u60246	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u60247	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Art. 238th, this is an insult not only to Croatian parliamentary representatives but also to the Croatian public. Not only are you here again manipulatively and untruely twisting facts and the truth that is white, but, in fact, you are not answering parliamentary questions, which unfortunately became the practice of the entire Plenkovic government, which is absolutely anti-civilization and anti-European.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u60248	You used it as a replica and then you got a warning. Next replica, the esteemed representative of Nikola Mazhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u60249	I would like to thank the chairman, dear Minister Koržinek Obuljen. Here, as we have seen today throughout the day in the debate exceptional progress and in the previous Law on Copyright and Related Rights, which will bring a series of benefits for a wide range of users, also related to the Final Proposal for the Law on Electronic Media, I can say that I participated in a public forum organised by the Croatian Journalist Society regarding freedom, transparency and funding of local media, after first reading and where, when I said that we would therefore create and make that, when financed by the units of local and regional (regional) self-government, that a public call with public criteria would be published, a later report on the websites, that absolutely all participants welcomed that part So local media. [[Intruder: Time.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u60250	Thank you, Mr. Representative. Indeed, the provisions concerning transparency and the financing of public publication of ownership data, as well as sources of funding, as well as the publication of public calls with publicly established criteria, will certainly be one of the great contributions of this law and will help stability and trust in the media, and of course our democracy as a whole.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u60251	The next replica, the esteemed representative of Damir Habian.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u60252	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor. I think we can all agree that freedom of expression, freedom of opinion ceases to actually work where the message violates other rights, other freedoms, other principles prescribed by other positive regulations. Here I mean, of course, the hate speech, the slander, the insult, and part of what we could hear in the replica of the distinguished colleagues. So I'm glad you're actually in co-operation with HND right now. 94 formulate in the way it is, therefore, that, as regards the responsibility of the provider, therefore electronic publication and responsibility for the content generated by the user, it must be met precisely these two conditions which you yourself have actually warned in your opening speech, so previous registration and a clear and easy way of actually warning the sanctions in case of insult. So I'm glad that one thing is freedom of speech, but the thin limit is actually when we start and it goes into hate speech.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u60253	Thank you, Mr. Representative, and the debate in the first reading, here in the Parliament, but also a general debate in clarity since we released the Law into clarity, has shown that there is a majority interest in our society and a tendency to contribute to the reduction of the possibility of sharing inappropriate content. I think this is one, good solution that is not too restrictive, but it is really dissuasive for those who would share such content and for those who, unfortunately, would monetize such content from the media position and build them in, if we could say so in our business strategies.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u60254	The next replica is the respected representative Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u60255	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, Your Honor. I'm glad that in this final version of the law was removed, as you would say, a provision on vertical integration. Namely, the reason why this provision on our legislation was problematicd among other things was the situation relating to N1 television, which was de facto enabled to broadcast. I would not like the provisions of the Law, as they are now set out, to lead to the fact that N1 television is not able to comply with its national concession, given that we have had the opportunity to see how the award of concessions works in practice. But in addition to this problem, you know exactly what I'm talking about, your portfolio is loaded with a whole series of others. Namely, why was the public's interest in obtaining a national concession in the first place, because, among other things, HRT as a public institution does not perform its role. I want to, I don't want to say that so some high-quality journalists who are really trying, but the system is like that. Unfortunately, if HRT as a public service does not perform its basic task, it is primarily [[Intruder: Time.]] Your responsibility. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u60256	I thank you for this replica. Unfortunately again, you state something that is not contained in this Law, nor is it vertical, a provision on vertical integration, nor in any way made it impossible for N1 to obtain any concession for a number of reasons. First because they are not registered in Croatia, the second is that such a concession tender is not called, so there is no connection, these provisions, they are the owners of television and N1 and New TV and perhaps some others, have prevented ownership in some other companies. This really has nothing to do with N1 which is one charging channel with a business establishment in Luxembourg and is not covered by the provisions of these articles but covers only those provisions where jurisdiction is extended to those media that have a business residence in another country and most of the audiences in the Republic of Croatia are addressed.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u60257	The next replica is the esteemed representative of William Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u60258	I thank the Chairman, Your Honor. Minister. You in this final proposal of the Law on Electronic Media, of course we see a number of improvements. The scope of the tasks and powers of the Electronic Media Council has been significantly increased, however, and we also think that it is good and that it really needs to have these powers that it is getting here, however, is not envisaged to increase the funding from which the Electronic Media Agency is financed, in order to ensure additional capacity for the increased range of services and obligations and to increase the funds of the Fund for the promotion of pluralism and diversity of electronic media.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u60259	Thank you for this replica. So, as far as the funds made available by the Electronic Media Agency are concerned, they are in direct correlation with the number of media they regulate. In fact, they are financed from the percentage established by this law, so more media, more work, more resources, less media, less activity, less resources, and funds for the Pluralism Fund and the diversity of electronic media and the pluralism Fund are defined in relation to the fee collected by HRT, which is of course another reason why we are all in the interest of having this fee collected for HRT needs as stable as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u60260	The next replica, the respected representative Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u60261	Here's the minister, I'd like to ask you for an article. Paragraph 14 of this law, which reads, will be shortened, in audio-visual media services, it is forbidden to encourage, favour and spread the ideas of fascist, Nazi, communist and other totalitarian regimes. Here you are just a few minutes ago, MP Karolina Vidović Kristo called you to promote one of these totalitarian regimes, communism because of a documentary whose author is a very important historian Hrvoje Klasic, which is unfortunately very transparent today, which means totalitarianism, which is precisely the result of the equalization of fascism and Nazism on the one hand with communism, which comes as a policy precisely from Europarliamentarians from countries where democracy, Poland, Hungary, is increasingly emerging. I wonder what you think about this provision, what it's like to implement, what it actually means to you?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u60262	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u60263	I thank you for this comment. So, this provision, as you know, is also based on the Law on the Prevention of Discrimination, it will not be implemented by the Government, I am here on behalf of the Proposer, on behalf of the Government, it will be implemented in one part by the Council for Electronic Media and in one part by the courts, and I think it is in our best interest for all of us to move as little into Croatian society as possible through procedures based on such content in any media.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u60264	Next replica, respected representative Goran Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u60265	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Minister, creative industries are certainly something that every serious nation wants to participate in creating GDP. The European average is somewhere around 4.2% in GDP when it comes to creative industries, we are somewhere at maybe 2.5%, this law is just hand-in-hand on our creators and essentially obliges televisions to engage our creators, which I think is very, very important, not only this part but also encourages both domestic and Croatian music, which will certainly contribute to what we are talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u60266	Thank you for pointing out that important aspect of this law. Indeed, throughout the law in several places and compared to television, therefore commercial television but also with regard to platforms that offer content on demand, it has been established regarding investment in Croatian audio-visual production, it is good for the development of media cultural pluralism, it is good for the development of this sector in Croatia, it is generally good for the engagement and employment of as many creators as possible and we only hope, given that most of the stakeholders to whom this relates agree with these provisions, that they will indeed be implemented in good faith and I am convinced that in many areas and far across those quotas because we know that the involvement of the over-skilling Croatian content is what attracts the audience.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u60267	Next replica, respected representative Majda Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u60268	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister Obuljen Koržinek, therefore reading this law, it is very clear that it calls for freedom to speak and freedom of expression, that freedom of the media but very clearly do not speak hate and very clearly do not encourage impatience. That's exactly the message. In 94, which you have agreed with the HND and also the Association of Newspapers at the HUP reshape where providers of electronic publications are obliged and take all measures to protect minors but also to disable content that promotes violence, which promotes hatred, terrorism, xenophobia, racism, etc., so what is important to underline here is that although freedom of expression and freedom of speech is one of the most important democratic rights, that this freedom is certainly not an absolute right and that the right to freedom of speech I dare say, it stops where hate speech starts, where bullets start and the word becomes a weapon. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u60269	Thank you. Of course, it is in everyone's interest that any provisions of this law relating to the prevention of division or creation, broadcasts of such content as rarely as possible, if ever, must be applied in that sense. I stress, and these provisions are primarily dissuasive, we commend in any case and a great engagement of the Council for Electronic Media through a project of media literacy where I think one systematic approach is aware of all parts of our society as devastating to share such inappropriate content.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u60270	Next replica, distinguished representative Marijana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u60271	I would like to thank the chairman, dear Minister. In this year's Report of the Centre for Pluralism and Freedom of Media at the European University Institute on Property Transparency, Croatia is classified among EU members as high-risk countries and that in Croatia the regulation of media space stagnates, which has led to the deterioration of media pluralism. That's what's in their report. As you comment on this, here, in light of the recent concessions to Top Radio Ivan Kacunic, who have reported civil society organisations to the EU Commission. Do you feel that this is in the spirit of strengthening pluralism, and do you consider yourself responsible for such a bad assessment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u60272	... As far as the first part of your question is concerned, I have already pointed out, and certainly through this will be discussions, and there will be discussions on how much this Law brings about improvements to property transparency, the obligation, the new obligation of transparent reporting on all revenues, and the obligation of transparent media financing through public calls, and that is why I also mentioned the National Recovery Plan and Resistance from which we will actually be able to finance very well the implementation of this Act, and as far as the government's responsibilities are concerned, and that will certainly be the case at the Committee's thematic session, you know very well, and in the current Law and this one that we propose, the regulator is independent in his decisions, so that I will answer your question directly, in no way do I feel responsible or responsible. [[Specially enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u60273	The next replica is Urša Raukar-Gamulin's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u60274	I would like to thank Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Minister, in the article. The authorities of the state administration and public institutions are projected to spend at least 15% of their promotion funds on audiovisual and radio programmes by local publishers. Since it is not precise how much of these 15% can be given to promote a particular publisher, there is an issue of interdependence between the media and the government and, in fact, the question of influence on investigative journalism. Well, if we were a little more picturesque, more concrete, I would ask you for the Croatian public, do you know how much last year the Government of the Republic of Croatia paid in absolute amounts to Styria and Hanza Media for the promotion? Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u60275	I must admit that I do not fully understand this question, therefore a provision on 15% of the advertising obligation on local or regional publishers, was thought to be precisely to achieve some balance because, rightly, when this provision was introduced, and was introduced even in earlier laws, there was a concern that all of these advertising activities, and this primarily refers to both public companies and other institutions and companies owned by the Republic of Croatia, would mostly go towards those who have national distribution and national reach. So this provision with this 15% annual amount of promotion and advertising services at local and regional level is meant to be precisely why, and then, it would be very difficult and I don't know how it would be possible to prescribe that this 15% share will be further redistributed, I have to admit, I don't know how that would be possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u60276	The next replica is Honorable Representative Davor Ivo Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u60277	Minister, as you said in one part of this proposal, the system is liberalized, some new restrictions are introduced in others, such as this measure that one media house must not exceed 40% of the share of annual revenues on the market. What I think should be added to that narrative is that it is precisely such restrictions that aim, especially in the application of this Law to ensure pluralism, to ensure freedom. That it is not intent and must never be intentional to narrow down entrepreneurial freedoms or to go against some media house, but rather, by preventing a house from having a dominant role, it wants to actually protect pluralism of the media scene by, of course, freedom of the media, and free society.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u60278	True, therefore, we had to adapt these provisions to this digital time, so not only those classic linear media, so radio and television that were previously covered and placed in relation to the press, but really take into account the complete portfolio of publishers, as well as all the services they provide, so we set that amount of 40% after which new, new ownership, or ownership shares can no longer be acquired. Everything we propose in this Law, as well as in this issue of pluralism, but also in general public announcements of ownership and sources of funding, is indeed going towards strengthening confidence in the media as an important segment of our political and public and social life at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u60279	The next replica is the respected representative Maja Grba-Bujevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u60280	Dear Minister, one of the key points of this Act has also been called the part concerning media service providers is encouraged to draw up plans to make their services more accessible to people with disabilities and children with developmental difficulties. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 18 You have defined all this improvement, as well as the whole process of monitoring the obligation to report to the EU on the implementation of these plans, so that media services are really accessible to people with disabilities and children with developmental difficulties. That's what I think is a key message from this law. You know all the problems people with disabilities face. Thank you for your sensitivity and sensitivity for such persons as yours, your team that is still here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u60281	Thank you. The truth is that this section applies to all broadcasters or media service providers and those who have, which are available on request. We know that the adjustment of services to people with disabilities is demanding, it is also cost-requiring for publishers, so the directive provides for this step-by-step, however, and today is the day when we mark Sign Language Day and I think it is very important to sensitize all of us through such legal regulations, those who are not with such a type of restriction that our fellow citizens who are disabled have the right to have access to all services. And I believe that we will find some additional sources of funding to co-finance the adjustment of such content.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u60282	Next replica, respected representative Nino Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u60283	Dear Minister, inspired by these praises that have come from the ranks of the ruling here, and I will give you a little commendation. I noticed that you respected one of the remarks I made in the debate on the first version of this law, and it was one, whether it was a tipfeler and a Freudian sauce, namely, in the 2009 law, it said that it was not allowed to spread defascist, nationalist, communist and other totalitarian directories. So, for some reason, Nazism was amnesty in relation to fascism and communism, but there was nationalism and the same weakness was passed on to the 2013 version and to the first bill of law we had here. This testifies to how much this has not been read at all, but the parrotic certain directives have been transposed or materials that know from where and where such a thing was happening. So for now, I would like to begin by expressing my satisfaction that at least this has been changed and that Nazism has won that deserved place with communism and fascism, and nationalism since it is yet a more layered phenomenon amnesty than such a society. We'll discuss the rest later.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u60284	I thank you. Refreshment is to receive praise, I would just repeat that we really, as we did between the first reading and the second reading, included all those remarks concerning the improvement of the text, we are always open to such improvements. It creates difficulties when we refer to the text in a way that highlights certain concepts that are not in the text. Then we're a little bit separated because we don't know how to react, but in this case here's the pleasure we've both finished Article 14.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u60285	The last replica Barbara Antholic Vour.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u60286	Thank you very much. Dear Madam Minister, I would like to ask you in fact more than rephrase that the government swears to independence or not wanting to influence the media is primarily a disputed way of electing a council for electronic media and in that part, the government has several times explained that it does not want to affect it. However, the fact is that the law itself has not better defined the area. And I'd ask you if you really think there are elements in the law that disprove those claims. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u60287	Thank you. I don't understand why you're making the conclusion that this is a questionable matter. I personally held a public debate in 2008, which was one of the criteria for EU accession where we were to conduct a public debate on how to elect members of the electronic media council. The results of this public debate are publicly available and they have largely confirmed that this is one model consistent with and similar to models in a number of other countries. And I find him satisfying. Just as I have said several times in the debate about this law if anyone is willing to launch a public debate and make some concrete proposals but which will be enforceable, and not as one who, let's say, places that one association nominates two members of the council that you will probably be here alone by nominating them. So if any model is proposed that would be better, surely we will consider it and adopt it. It's a public interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u60288	Thank you, Minister. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, then I open the debate, the first club is the House Movement Representative, the respected representative Zlatko Hasanbegovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u60289	Dear Vice-President, Minister, we have shown our opinion on this bill in our first reading in February of this year, marking it among other typical examples of Croatian legislative practice as a mixture of nomotechnical papacy, legal and linguistic illiteracy and Brussels inspired past the real social needs, over-indulgence, i.e. attempts at legal regulation and those relationships that do not need to be regulated at all. So today, too, they can only paraphrasise or repeat what has been said in the debate from the first reading. Whether there is a substantial difference between the solutions proposed by the final legislative proposal in relation to the solutions in the first reading. In essence, there is no word about the same difficult one, but I have already said to the papasia, a difficult passable papacy that, after reading the first articles, causes headache, mental confusion, depression and intellectual despair. Unlike the spirit in the letter of the final proposal, there are few differences that can come down to two key ones. The first refers to the fact that the prohibition so-called ban is deleted. vertical integration, which translated from the telecommunications meta-language means that a program distributor, more specifically the telecom, can also produce a program. This change, of course, is not the result of a principled concept, but solely the lobbying power of residential telecom capital, which convinced the minister and her boss to change their original opinion between the two readings. In principle, this solution is not in itself unacceptable and is also known to other EU members, but in Croatian context it will also be the beginning of the season of ownership hunting, powerful and of course foreign telecom capital on the domestic Croatian media notation. The second difference relates to Art. 93th of the proposal, i.e. 94th of the final proposal, Art. 93. was only one of the articles of the sensory background and determined that the provider of the electronic publication was responsible for the overall content, including those generating and users, which of course refers to comments for breach of this provision, as well as over 100 000 to million kuna, which gives the Agency for Electronic Media essentially a parapolitical body the position of the state's top censor, imposes autocensors and possible bankruptcy, and the employment of Internet censors that will deal only with the cleaning of the internet septic cave, and the suppression of so on. hate speech and false news according to the Commissioner's model from a plentiful web committee for general defence and social self-defense pretentiously called factograf.hr. In the final proposal, the so-called Solomonian so-called “Solomon ” was carried out. legal and nomotechnical finishing, now in art. In 94, of course, as a result of the lobbyist efforts of the publishing lobby, not the government's principle vision in such a way that the same responsibility is prescribed for the publishers for the overall content, but only if he has failed to register the user and warn him of the rules and consequences without explaining how this provider will establish the authenticity of the registration. In reality, let's be clear, this cosmetic change cannot undo the fact that the spirit of this law in a series of articles represents an ideological censorial procedure in the freedom of the media to express opinions and freedom of speech with the aim of further limiting any criticism of Plenkovic's stabilision, bissel bureaucrats and epidemiological fanatics under the fig leaf of suppressing ideologists so-called ideologists. hate speech, spreading the so-called false news, and in the meantime protection of public health, all in opposition to the article. 4. guaranteeing freedom of expression and full software freedom of electronic media. The essence of the censor's ideological background of the law in the first reading was sublimed, in particular in art. 14th century 2., in which the existing provisions of the Constitution and the Penal Code are subtelligently and at the edge of literacy, the Commissar's instruction that it is forbidden to encourage and address the promotion of hate and discrimination on the basis of so-called. I.D. What's a birth certificate anyway? We have already spoken of the births of ideological penetrations in the law, and I quote, the idea of fascist, nationalist, communist and other totalitarian regimes, which has no foothold either in the constitution or in the Penal Code. The question arises as to who will judge and based on what criteria and competences they are in the political and historical sense of fascists, why Nazi, not national socialist, regardless of generic relation there are fundamental differences, and what communist regimes, in which time and in what historical context. In particular, according to its bureaucratic idiotism, the communist mental pattern and intellectual stupidity highlighted the criminalisation of the legitimate concept of nationalism in which there are many theoretical concepts and without which there is no national state, and which nationalism in the Croatian historical context has a constitutional significance in the continuation of the modern Croatian state. The minister, or someone close to her, accepted my argument on the inadmissibility of criminalisation of the concept of nationalism, so in the final proposal, it changed this subtelligent commissary item, but only in a way that the word nationalism evaporated from the sentence. I, the minister, regardless of the irreparable dullness of the whole item, thank you for that. However, with regard to this, it states among other things that my remarks on content and amendments to the article have not been accepted. 14th since, I quote, it's a definition that's basically taken over from one other law. This can only mean that you or the ministers or your chats and scribes from the ministry have not even read their final legislative proposal. Furthermore, the censorship but even more intellectually mediocritical content of this law inspired by puberty students' monuments contains art. 15. Who in... the principle of freedom of thought prescribes that the programs these contents must, more specifically should. For example, why should we contribute? Protecting the environment, respecting other people's opinions, beliefs, audience education, entertainment, and, among other nonsense and flossules taken from the Miss's election, encourage the public to so-called. international understanding or so-called A sense of justice? My question is, who will determine what it is to shape so-called. free opinion or what it is. A sense of justice in a normative sense? Or, for example, why a portal that dissipates political theory promotes lesbian unionism, philatellium, cycling, differential feminism, obesity feminism or gastronomy would have to contribute to the entertainment of so-called. international understanding or environmental protection? Why should the legislator ultimately prescribe the content of an electronic publication? In conclusion, let me, as last time, finish with one quote, quote "The source of information is in all class societies, the ruling class of it through means of mass communication just wants to communicate with the masses only the information that is desirable from its point of view for easier submission, exploitation, etc. because the masses under this influence will give the slightest resistance." The author is well-known, not for early Marks or Cardell, but for another ambitious young man who was able to turn his promiscuous inspiration into this legal proposal in the year of the fall of the Berlin Wall 30 and a few years later. Gentlemen of the HDZ and associated partners, congratulations.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u60290	The next debate is on behalf of the Croatian Governors' Club of Representatives, respected Vice President Miroslav Škoro.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u60291	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Minister with his associates. I will continue in the magazine tone, however, given that we spent a good part of the day on the Law on Copyright and Related Rights, and in contrast to that time, I will be a little committed perhaps to the praise of Mr. Ivanovic to music, art. 45. which says in the text of this law "Croatian music must make at least 25% of the daily publication of the music programme foreseen by the radio programme of at least 20%", I repeat, "of which at least 20% must be published between 6 and 22 hours", that is something I have gained the impression of what you are proud of. And it is good to protect Croatian music on the air even though we are witnessing that in the process of blackmailing, for example, the Croatian night music programme on HRT has been abolished because the whole copyright law doesn't make any sense if these works, the works of our artists are not used in the ether. There is no basis for financial payment, but protecting someone is good, especially as the legislator protects endangered species from extinction, and the most common reason for extinction is the man and his action, so that, by now, the Mediterranean bear, hamster, frog and some kind of domestic animals such as cattle, horses and donkeys are protected by this law, so we protect Croatian music in such a way that we have prescribed 25% of daily Croatian music from which 20% between 6 and 22 hours. We are usually a rare wish in which domestic music still survives, we have even managed to keep one of our record houses as... a company which is not usually the case in Europe especially in the countries of transition and we have excellently organized a system of collective protection. And domestic music is a predominant part of all Croatian parties, all Croatian delights, I don't think there's too much to talk about. I think the ratio of domestic and foreign music to Croatian celebrations, gatherings at least 90:10 in favour of domestic music. It's like that everywhere except in the Croatian era, if we weren't talking about Croatian folk music, it's particularly exiled, I'd say. And I found some two available and relevant work on radio and stations in the city of Zagreb and Zagreb County and we can share music on preferred music and broadcast music. Preferably what listeners would like to hear, and the broadcast is what is spinning on the air. So in rough, at least 50% wants to hear domestic fun, pop or folk music, side music wants to hear 25% listeners, turbo folk 11%, and that's what I congratulate you on this occasion, classic 8%, etc. The radio programme in Croatia consists of 80% of music, 12% of thematic speech content and about 8% of advertising. Otherwise, domestic music in Croatian ether has 6%, which is very common, up to one radio 100%, it is a factography when it comes to Croatian domestic music. Now, what I think is controversial is actually a nomotechnical problem that should be corrected in this law or Article. 45. If we apply it literally then 25% per day, which is small, I'll tell you why it's a little bit later, so at least 20% between 6 and 22 hours. If it's 20% to 25%, then it's only 5, that means out of 100 songs 25% must be Croatian in the day, and in the time of 6 to 22 it should only be 5 songs. I think it's a nomotechnical problem and I think it can be solved by using fractions to say that of 25% of 4/5 must actually be domestic music. It's one of my humble proposals to maybe mark this better, not to be of which is of these 25%. Why am I saying that? I take it right, I apologize, I take it because in a great French country where they really care about the protection of language and culture and you are certainly familiar with this example, private radio stations must broadcast at least 35 to 40% of the music in French. French performers, born in France with French citizenship singing in another language, do not enter this quota. So, at private radio stations, and in public service from 6 to 22 hours, the state needs as much as 50 percent. They must also take care of new talents and new young artists. It's a factography and whether or not we're in sync, if we're doing what my grandmother would say from the crash or not, anyway, I think we need to look up to the ones who got rid of it, it feels good to me. I think when we compare ourselves to one great and powerful French that our 25% is really too little and I think it would help Croatian authors, biographers and all those we discussed in the course of the session so far, it certainly helps to raise that number. And it would do no harm to anyone, because the financial result in France is phenomenal. I'll only tell you this one more time, so of the 20 most sold albums by French artists in France 19 is from French artists. So that's the result of their action. Of the 200 best-selling albums, 80% are albums by French artists, 48 albums by young, new, unaffirmed artists. So it's kind of an investment in its own future, artistically speaking, yes. And I'll just tell you in the end that the French culture minister was already thinking in 2019 that they would also ask digital services for more representation of music in French or to form so-called. play lists in a way that offers this French music far more. Here, I may have drowned a little with France and with French music, speaking from the perspective of those people that in some way in one part and representing in this assembly, so I suggest that this Article 45 be complemented, or changed, to remove that term from what, and I will add an amendment to that. And to think about increasing that, that quota from 25% to a little bit more. We're one small country and definitely, I get, I think, your doctoral work on this topic too here as hard as it is to survive as a small country with a cultural identity in such a globalized and large world and we have to do everything we can to keep our identity that gives us the right and some charters of international organizations. I hope I didn't drown you very much, thank you very much, good night.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u60292	Next debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most, Honored Representative Nino Rasudic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u60293	Dear Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, this exhibit could be entitled to protect us from the hate speech of OrWelovski or how Andrej Plenkovic of Edward Cardellj transferred Judith Butler or once in the name of the people, now on behalf of the people, I would not be wrong with any title regarding this bill. In the useful things that this bill adopts in order to regulate the new media reality that has taken place by developing technology, it has 2 extremely problematic elements that make it absolutely unacceptable for us if they do not remove what we are going to ask for amendments and explain. One is the introduction of censorship, more specifically the promotion of autocensorship under the cover of the fight against hate speech, and another is the intrusion of one fluid subjective category such as birth identity in Croatian legislation, which continues to be an anthropological experiment never seen in mankind's history. In the first version of this Act in Article 93, the providers of electronic publications are obliged to take all measures in accordance with Article 14 of this Law to prevent the publication of content that encourages violence and hatred and then, in paragraph 3, the electronic publication provider is responsible for the full content published in the electronic publication including the content generated by the users. In the new version which we now have before us, this paragraph 3 is somewhat tempered and read, now in Article 94, the providers of an electronic publication shall be responsible for the overall content published in the electronic publication including the content generated by the users if they fail to register the user and if it is not in a clear and easily obvious manner alerted the user to the rules of commenting and to the breach of the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Article. We feel that this item is completely unnecessary and should be deleted. Why? Because it's not good for the ministry to deal with hate and love issues either, or the Ministry of Culture and the media. And that hate and love are used as beatings in a political struggle. Because what's next? Will Orwelovski rename the ministry, to the Ministry of Love, because he deals with hate, and thus indirectly and love. Such a proposal is on the line of a worrying tendency of hypernormation, which we also recognize in the EU to hypernormize human relations from cucumbers to, to, to, to the relationship between people in communication. Why isn't this good? The law had to be minimum. Where there's a relationship between people where things work without the law he doesn't need. So legal regulation of human relations is necessary only where it cannot be without it. And if the law is minimum morale, and we want to go all the way to the little things and more and more hypernormize and determine by law we citizens will gradually turn into amoral idiots who will no longer develop a moral sense of another but will be obedient enough to respect the letter of the law. In fact, there is only regulation in the civilized human community. In communication between mature free people, something that we call bonton, good taste, honor, education, empathy, solidarity, humanity, whatever you want. These are all positive traits that people develop in free interaction and that represent the connective tissue of society. So people need to be approached as free mature responsible individuals, not as some kind of hater mania that the state needs to restrain everywhere and in every place. It is important to point out that the problem of hate speech is an artificially produced problem in Croatia. He doesn't exist, it's just that what used to be rolled around the toilet door is now easier to put on the comments. But not only that, every inflation leads to devaluation, so when you look at the comments of some who just insult and spread hate, you stop perceiving them at one point. The communication community itself regulates it by insulating those under quotes by the authors. That this is an artificially produced problem in Croatia, according to statistics. Here is the one from 2019 that we know reliably before the crown, in 2019 statistics on hate crimes, we are among the best in the EU. Member States The DORH has been reported with 60 people for a hate crime charged with 40, 13 convictions. With regard to hate speech in 2019, 59 applications, of which 39 were immediately rejected, received verdicts for 13 persons, of which 11 were convicted, are the situation in Croatia. And it creates the impression that we are in a state similar to Italy and lead years of the 1970s, where we have both left and right extremism, terrorism, murder, the hatred that rockes the streets. That's not the case at all, so it's an artificially produced problem. We already have a legislative framework that sanctions all of this, what needs to be sanctioned and threatened, from the threat of calling for violence to slander. And that should not, under that excuse, choke the freedom of the media and freedom of speech in general. After all, hate is not solved by preventing some channels because there are others to express, hate can be reduced by solving the cause of hatred, and psychology and some life experience and common sense teaches us that you must and leave people some discriminatory and exhaust valves because under a strong cover will then explode in a worse way. Anonymous in comments is important. People who have some information can leave them in anonymous comments, so give a lead to both the press and us in politics that have no place else. The general principles of this law appear to be the following, Art. 4. Freedom of expression and full software freedom of electronic media are guaranteed, so Article 2 of this law cannot be interpreted as giving the right to censorship or restricting the right to freedom and speech of thought. So, you have absolute freedom of speech, you're just going to pay a million kunas under this law. It's like that joke with Radio Yerevan is it true that freedom of speech in the Soviet Union is equal to that of the United States? He says, in principle, that freedom of speech is, but it's not freedom after speech. This is where you get your friend Buric's pocket. Let's go to a bit of trouble with the stork, according to the book Judith Butler, which will soon be shared by the HDZ as once the impenetrable historical reality. The birth identity is first introduced into the Croatian legislation of the 2008 Anti-Fraud and Discrimination Act, the only against it was Marijana Petir. I wonder how they'll vote on this law. Then in 2009. is introduced into Art. 12. The first time that it is not allowed to encourage, favor and spread hatred and discrimination based on now comes race, ethnicity, skin color, sex, language, religion, all this which is justified and here is the birth identity of expression. Then in 2013 after this first text, here is the carrot, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Media, with funds from the Fund, will encourage the production and publication of audiovisual radio programs and content that are particularly important for promoting awareness of gender identity equality. And then came the Istanbul Convention against which the ruling majority was voted by Celic, Jelkovac, Stier and Dodig. I would like to know what will happen to the adoption of this law, this law that I must say that the concept of birth identity, so the fluid category of subjective sentiment introduces into legislation, tomorrow I can say that I feel subjectively as a woman and ask that I be called representative Rasudiæ and a portal that is far from risking the fine of a million kuna. So, in art. 14th of this law, we have a birth identity, in art. 21st, Art. 71st and in violation of the provisions of Art. 71st. 98th, the one that predicts fines from 100,000 to millions of kuna. What does this mean? So for example, the apostolic instigator Amoris Laetitia of liberal Pope Francis speaks against gender ideology that denies diversity and, of course, the complementarity of men and women will be punished by a million kunas. Here's what you're pushing and I'm curious about what the Church Summit in Croatia and Fr. Ante Chovo in Sinj can tell me, which is very supportive of you. Please change this. Let's get rid of that fluid. The concept of this... from this law then we'll be able to think about supporting it. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u60294	The next debate is on behalf of the SDSS representative, Milorad Pupovac, on behalf of the SDSS Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u60295	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Ms. Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. In our first reading, we drew attention to several articles, some of which were accepted, some of which were not. Well, those who aren't, I'll repeat, I find them relevant. Calling for a culture of dialogue is good and necessary in our society in every possible opportunity and every possible regulatory act, and in this, but I would also encourage the rapporteur, in this case the minister, to add to the culture of the dialogue a culture of debate. The culture of the debate is an even higher degree of training and responsibility for participation in dialogue or monologue form of attitude representation. It assumes argument, dialogue assumes changing roles, respecting one another, but a debate that can lead to a serious face-to-face and also conflict requires an additional and specific culture. Unfortunately, it is not there, if there were then my previous ones would not speak as it speaks, then the legislator would not have the need to regulate an area which is a semi-public, semi-private, semi-public, semi-public, semi-private sphere, and these are generated content from those who read and comment. In this area, there is everything and hate speech and calls for violence. If we had ethics and a culture of debate, then the legislator should not particularly regulate except in acts of violence and express acts of hatred such as anti-Semitic or anti-feminines or any other. But we don't have it, they don't even have developed countries, so big corporations don't online create rules that need to be followed and respected. As for point 15.5., thank you for accepting equality instead of understanding for national minorities. I'd just add that before equality would be to put recognition. National minorities or all other minorities, according to what we know, expect the latest theories developed in the second half of the 20th century, expect their confessions. Recognising in what are particulars of rent, cultural and all others. We still have people in our society who don't admit it, we have in us neighbouring societies where members of the Croatian majority people live where they don't recognize themselves and that's important. And that is why I am asking and proposing that, with this equality, an equality be added before and recognition in art. The 15th century. 5th century. As for a particularly sensitive area, which is supremacy, commercialisation in the media, and that is why my previous colleague, Raspoudić, when he talked about self-regulation, how will you ensure self-regulation where there is money power, where there is a supremacy of interest and where there is a supremacy of overall social power, coffee self-regulation? It may be possible in small circles of scientific communities, it may be possible in small circles of people living in organic communities, but where money, power and power regulate, there it ends or there is no one or by subduing someone or by hegemonizing someone and suppressing them. And that's why commercialization is necessary in this case, to protect especially sensitive groups, which are children. I don't understand why it's necessary to commercialise media content and children's concerns? I don't understand. I've met people in different parts of the world I've been staying in who protects my children from the media, gives them limited time to watch the media. And if we're going to commercialize it, then we as a state as a legislator won't protect them. I'm talking about art. And I'm talking about Art. 36. 21. As far as art is concerned. 14, I know that this has been a big battle and I know that publishers have a serious problem with their control of hate speech and calls for violence gathering on the one hand their becoming and, on the other hand, reducing the potential number of those who would be involved in creating, generating, commenting, visiting what they already are, but I think we need to assess. We are a society that we have a problem with hate, the Dalmatians hate the Zagrebans, the people hate politicians, not because they know a lot about it because if they knew a lot more then they'd point hatred at others. I didn't think politicians deserved that kind of label, but hate is present in different segments, interethnic relations. There's a lot of talk here about gender, and in this area there's, in a racial sense, a society that we just need to create tolerance, and in that sense, I think it's more rational to establish some kind of surveillance over that stricter than we've prescribed this one. As to how and how to do so, so by internal regulation and by how and how and in what way there are clear reasons here for me, a regulatory body such as the Council for Electronic Media is called and compared to Orwelovan bodies, and such bodies simply have to be in every society that wants to regulate non-regulated relationships. And what I think is important, which is the self-initiative of the body and the rule that they will react to when they recognize that some media allow or do not control, do not monitor hate speech and speech that calls and enables violence. One last thing I'd like to say is, it's a good thing there's a media fund for pluralism, but I think there should be a media independence fund. They don't all have enough money to do that, and the communal interest of our particular environments would be There's such a medium. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u60296	The next club is representatives of HSLS and Reformist and respected representatives Martincevic and Klasic. They're not here. Followed by the HDZ Representatives' Club, distinguished representative Goran Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u60297	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here are some technical information about the ether in Croatia and what it exists in Croatia. In the area of Croatia with HRT today, 26 television channels broadcast 29 programs, 138 radio publishers broadcasting 149 programs while the number of providers of electronic publications is 276 with 336 publications. It also operates 59 media service providers that broadcast via satellite, cable and internet from 96 programs and 12 service providers on request with 14 services. This may be just enough to figure out what this is all about and therefore this Final Proposal of the Electronic Media Act is something that Croatia needs. The law has not changed significantly since 2009. And I think he's touched all those things that not only interest us Parliamentarians but it'll be good for all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and we're all being honest with that media space in one way or another. More transparency is being introduced in the publication of data from media service providers related to the publication of ownership structure on the website of the provider itself, as well as on the publication of data related to the amounts and sources of funding, where ownership structures prove to be an excerpt from the register of real owners, I think that something that has so far been a major unknown in Croatia. You didn't know who the owners were, you didn't know what their incomes were, and that's why he bound them to do it, and I think it's important to change the perception of the public when it comes to the media. The change is a way of calculating the programming base, in a way that media service providers must specify 70% of the software base while they are allowed 30% to change and adapt to real daily events that are of particular interest to the public, also an important thing. You as a media can't influence something that will eventually happen like an earthquake in Zagreb, because now if the legal regulation makes you have 90% or 95% of the program that you have to put into programming, and only 5% change then you have a problem breaking the law. This is a good, good provision and it will help safe and commercial television, of course we're not talking about the HRT that has, of course has its HRT Act that doesn't apply to all of these things that we're talking about. So I think this is a good thing, especially it's a good thing for small televisions that have these certain daily events that I can't calculate on that programming basis. As a novelty for the protection of children and young people, a new obligation has been added to ensure that gambling ads have to contain a message on the existence of a risk of gambling addiction and will have to be marked with a visual symbol, and therefore the criteria for advertising energy drinks are laid down. I think that two great monsters play fortunately must slowly enter one of the biggest addictions in the Republic of Croatia, perhaps the most expensive addiction that destroys the entire family and energy, energy drinks are also a major problem. The advertisers so far have not had this ban relatively non-law binding them on what we're talking about. Article 39(2) adds to the obligations of the authorities of the state administration and public institutions to which the founder of the Republic of Croatia as well as private persons is owned predominantly by the ownership of the Republic of Croatia, who spend the means of promoting and advertising their services or activities in audio visual or radio programmes of regional and local broadcasters of television or radio or of electronic publications registered in the register that the report is also published on their website. Very, very important. And what's the other important thing is that one of these laws, 1% of that money is just going to be the obligation to be provided to this little one, and I think the law is important, goes not the hand of those little ones we're entirely talking about to protect. Furthermore, if the funding for the production or publication of the programme of regional and local broadcasters of television or radio and electronic publications is provided in the budget of the authorities of the state administration and public institutions to which the founder of the Republic of Croatia as well as private legal persons is owned or predominantly owned by the Republic of Croatia to the budgets of units of local self-government whose resources are awarded by means of public calls and on the basis of publicly published criteria. It is very important, but what is even more important, which is that this law obliges local and regional self-government units to call on all interested parties who want to be part of or spend part of that money intended for the public promotion of local self-government units, and so far it has been different. Now the local self-government unit itself could tell who they were going to let run that part of the business. And finally, what I think is very important for every country that seriously thinks about its citizens, which is to protect our own production, or to encourage our own creativity. I said something about it in the replica. In fact, the European average when it comes to the creative industry is somewhere at 4.4% of EU Member States' GDP, we are here at 2.4% of GDP, I think we can do this and by this law we will certainly raise it and drive it in this direction. In fact, now television publishers will have to provide 5% of total annual gross income just to encourage our own creative staff, or Croatian creators. That must be great. And finally here's something that Mr. Škoro talked about and we've discussed a lot on both the Media Committee and ours, and in our club here HDZ, which is that Croatian music must also be represented in Croatian ether and not in time from half the night until 5:30 in the morning, but precisely in that time of 6am to 22 am. That percentage is now rising to 25%, and with this one, you would say one mistake that needs to be corrected so that 20% should not be broadcast in time from 6 to 22 because then it turns out that only 5% stays, so it needs to change, so it's going to get through the fraction, and then it's going to be much, much clearer. And here I finally want to thank, of course, the Minister for what she has given us as a Media Committee in explaining these legal changes, and I want to thank, of course, the Media Committee which has made an important contribution to what we are talking about today. Some things may not be ideal in this law, but I am sure that as this market is changing, some things will probably be known when the law goes into effect, but all in all I think is a big, big shift for the media in Croatia. Important points and this previous one we discussed and this one, we are waiting for the selection of the head director of HRT and I think we are going in a good direction and therefore the HDZ Club will accept the Final Proposal of the Electronic Media Act, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u60298	Next is the debate on behalf of the HSS and RF Representatives' Club, the respected representative Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u60299	Good evening, everyone. I would really briefly stick to what is most important from our perspective, and that is the perspective of workers in electronic media. Representatives of the Croatian Journalist Society participated in the working group for the construction of the new Electronic Media Act, but left the group in November 2019. What was the reason? They stressed the accumulated problems, as the biggest means is certainly the lack of jobs, but also the difficult working conditions of journalists, the constant influence of politics especially at local level, corporate pressures, the acting of editorial statutes, the self-will of media owners and finally the non-transparency of ownership. All of this has caused Croatia to be in the last 6 years. without 50% of the employees in the media, the HND believes that these accumulated problems should be resolved or thought that this law should be resolved for the first time since 16 years, but unfortunately they will not be solved. The HND, which may be clearer today than a few days ago, points out that the major problem is media dependence on political structures, especially at local level. This was warned by the Croatian Journalists' Union together with the HND in their recent campaign. Today we are now facing a scandal with a ban on the publication of series of excellent texts by Jelena Jindra on the Halter portal about a child and youth protection clinic, a judicial decision that shows not only that there is a string between local media and politics but that it is the judicial authority that should protect law, justice, justice, that means that equality just stands on the opposite side and confirms therefore, in any case, these fears expressed by the HND. A truly unprecedented decision that cannot be explained differently but that there is really what these texts show themselves, and that is a network of powerful people who decide what they can and cannot do in this country. The solutions proposed by the HND are really simple to implement. The HND sought first to depolitise the councils for electronic media, suggested that the HND has the right to offer two members of the press councils, meaning from the profession, and that members of the council are elected by a two-thirds majority. The proposal has not been accepted, but by ruling that I can still change it, so until the law has passed everything is possible and I guess there will be such amendments, so it can be changed to Article. 76 of the proposed law. They also asked HND for the new Law on Electronic Media to be the only one, meaning the media law that regulates the allocations of public support to the media through the Fund to promote pluralism and diversity of electronic media to advance support and, on the one hand, to financially increase the fund so that these support is sufficient for the normal functioning of a media, and on the other, that the advanced way of granting them not to go to the profit of publishers but to what is most important and that the fund should actually monitor that they are paying for the real work of journalists, which is also easy to implement. In view of the doubling of the number of beneficiaries of the fund, as the new proposal of the Electronic Media Act provides, additional sources of its financing are also necessary, and the proposal for the text of the law does not offer this, so support for better quality media content will be so narrowed that it will not be able to realise the actual purpose of the fund. The HND also requested that the advertising of state bodies of public companies in commercial and electronic media be abolished as others mentioned because it was advertising a different name for corruption, or for spilling public money into private pockets without criteria. Thanks to such transactions, we all know that an affair was created in its own time and is known as the Fimi Media where public companies and public authorities transferred local media to the most often fictitious advertising of public money that was later used for election campaigns of HDZ or private consumption of its leaders. This should be called public support, i.e. changing art. The 39th century 1st. The HND considers it problematic in the final proposal of the Law on Electronic Media and the reduction of the obligation to publish the news and inform local media and television from 10% to only 4-5 or 7% of its programme, which is proposed in art. 42. I do not understand why the minister was surprised at the question, I think the question was clearly asked and it is clear that something else could have been agreed on and as far as these public support is concerned, and as far as I think about these bad decisions, there is a reduced obligation to publish the news and inform local radio and television. This will certainly cause great damage to those living in these areas and whose local media are the main source of information. In addition to reversing the informative quality of local and regional media, there will be a further loss of job for journalists in local communities. We should avoid that, anyway, this isn't the law. Too bad he didn't accept HND's proposal for a minimum number of radio and television frequencies for non-profit publishers. The Agency for Electronic Media has the possibility that any concession before it is awarded can be defined as non-profit or profitable, it is certain that it would be good as proposed by the HND that if in the area of some 50,000 inhabitants we have 4 radio stations not all have to be commercial, there are not so many incomes, nor can they really be profitable, the HND asked that at least one of them be non-profitable which can be regulated because these decisions are made by the Council for Electronic Media, in addition in the 1990s we had a law that prescribed that on two commercial radios one non-profit comes. I'm going to tell my individual debate about this bad article. 14th century 2, and here only briefly what should be introduced in the form of amendments to this law that it was useful for journalists and for the media picture of Croatia and for what is extremely important, therefore, the Law on Electronic Media after so many years really brings some improvements in the positive direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u60300	The next debate is the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives, the respected representative of Willim Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u60301	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I have already said that a lot of very user and good steps have been made in this final bill, but I will try to say something in which direction we will go with our amendments and some changes. I'll probably criticise some things the same way, and that doesn't mean we're handing over our amendments to all of these. Art. 14. which has already been said today that it is very important and I think that it is precisely defined in the vast majority, but I agree that by the intensity of equality and this relativization of so-called. Totalitarian regimes, I am very interested in all of this, all I have to admit is clear and in the previous reading, I will take this and your time, even though you have certainly read to say that this sounds good in audio and/or audiovisual media services it is forbidden to encourage, favour and promote hatred or discrimination based on racial or ethnic origin or skin colour, sex, languages, faith, political or other beliefs, national or social origin, this I think is quite important, property status, membership in the union, education, social status, marriage or family status, age, health status, disability, genetic identity, expression or sexual orientation and anti-Semitism and xenophobia. Here we come now to really these difficult shapes the same, although everyone else is extremely difficult and then we come up with ideas of fascist, Nazi, communist and other totalitarian regimes. In fact, here's what I couldn't think of, but it's possible that one of my colleagues would replicate what would be a typical idea communist. I agree that in that name there were both crimes and terrible things and that they were happening, especially in that first period that we can freely call "better" immediately after the war, yes, but how are you going to define those ideas? Let’s say, above, this issue encourages hatred or the spread of hatred or discrimination, is said nicely or by social background. It's something that in these left communist ideas something that would be called class differences, is it right now if someone says they're class differences, whether it's right now to spread hate or... I don't know, I can't imagine it at all, but good. Now, I agree by all these other points, I'm saying this I don't know how it's going to be defined or, as my clubmate says, whether anti-Semitism is the same as planning economic central planning, it's just as dangerous as I guess the idea, I don't know, the planning economy. Is that if you mention whether it's an invitation to hate or here, it's some kind of really interesting idea to me. Now, what we're proposing is we're proposing under Art. 14. to add another attitude. We are convinced that precisely because of all these questions, it is good to bring these issues closer to the offices with a rule that would contain provisions on criteria for self-initiative treatment, meaning that there is no waiting for anyone to report it, and then whether or not it has happened in the media, until something is too strong in the media, and then only then comes to people in the Council for Electronic Media, we think that one such rule which would contain provisions on criteria for such self-initiative treatment or in the event of a violation of Article. 14 and then there would be also the obligation to make public the decision of that Council on Electronic Media on its conduct, but also to set sanctions within those which are later described in the law. As far as art is concerned. 36. it is said that programs for children shorter than 30 minutes should not be interrupted by short television ads. Yeah, we agree that's certainly good, but we still think that it should increase so that this duration of programs for children who are shorter than 45 minutes so that we shouldn't break up in our feelings because this up to 30 minutes and now imagine if this is 30 minutes, the goodness doesn't stop, and a little bit over it starts and immediately breaks up with a block that lasts longer than five minutes, and then we have this really is exactly what a farce is, just what on children when a program that attracts their attention and parents watch along with them, and then a block of ads goes on for over five minutes, and that's really something that I think might be different to regulate. We'll definitely give it an amendment to that. The key amendment that should be chosen by council members is not me, that's what my colleague Raukar will say, so that part I have no intention of taking your time here right now, she'll explain it. Also, of course, that article. The 94th century 3. which has already been quoted here today and which in the previous reading was, we think it is very important and that this is the way that really those contents generated by the users below and which has been really open to him, not only to violence but to open threats to death, and I don't know how much so when a few of them are bound by it, it's really something that was really possible so far that man, if he's exposed to it, is then filing a personal criminal application. I think this is very important. You've been telling me about how everything is regulated and that, of course, it's been determined that the agency's assets are being provided on the basis of the Agency's annual financial plan of 0.5% of the total gross income you've been talking about, it's all true and it's possible, but we're not sure that this amount of new obligations it has and the agency will be enough to cover all these needs. So we think maybe we should find some other ways to finance the agency's work, and especially the Fund to encourage pluralism and diversity of electronic media, in particular, hoping that there will be enough money for investigative journalism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u60302	Next is the debate on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club, the respected representative Marijana Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u60303	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Therefore, this new Law on Electronic Media was necessary and started to be developed because it was adopted in 2009. Obsolete, it should have been brought into line with the development of new media technologies, etc. and the Croatian legislation in that part was to be brought into line with European legislation or with a directive relating to audiovisual media services. Here I will make a few comments about some things that have been improved in relation to the previous version of the first reading and some of the things that are here and the HND suggested that we support and propose as amendments. In the first reading, one of the more controversial articles was the one who spoke about how the electronic publication provider was responsible for the overall content published on an electronic publication including the content generated by the users. So that part was about readers' comments, actually cancer of all the portals. Here's how we heard some agree with that thesis, some don't, that... is a waste of hate speech, spreading lies, mostly hate speech in any case needs to be contained, the problem is that it's not sufficiently and precisely defined. You need to find some balance between suppressing hate speech and freedom of expression. For media freedoms and generally for freedom of expression, it is very bad to prescribe by law and saying that publishers are generally and priors answers, so here is now in this new version in the final draft of the law in art. 94. that part has been amended, the part has been added that the provider is responsible for the overall content, including the content generated by the users if it fails to register the user and if it is not in a clear and easily visible manner warned the user of the commenting rules. So this is one change from the first reading that actually says whether portals or providers of an electronic publication will be obliged to determine the rules of commenting, introduce mandatory user registration, in the rules should it be pointed out that the comments calling for violence and hatred are punishable. There should be a quote of the article of the Penal Code, mainly whether those rules pop up when the user wants to comment on something, and by registering itself, then he himself will be responsible for what he wrote. However, here in conversation with some publishers and portals especially locals, the effect of such a law will be that it will automatically stop allowing comments on its portals because simply here you simply do not want to get involved in this so that they improve portals, introduce user registration, have Facebook pages, there are comments allowed, people respond to the name and last name, but here is the result of this which also seems to be some improvement, but the result that we will in some way end the possibility of people taking part in the debate on socially important topics. The second thing that is very important is the topic that HND points out, which is the depolitisation of the Council for Electronic Media. As I said in my replica in this year's report, the Centre for pluralism and freedom of the media at the European University Institute on Transparency of Property, Croatia put in high-risk countries and stated that in Croatia the regulation of the media sector stagnates which led to the deterioration of media pluralism. Here, and for this many responsible, I asked the Minister if she was held responsible, for which many consider it responsible and council, only the Council of Electronic Media. Depolitisation was sought both in the working group and in the public debate, one of the ways they recommend or suggest is whether to elect a council, it is currently elected at the Government's proposal in the Croatian Parliament, one of the proposals was to choose 2/3 of the majority, so not so-called. For the most part, this may need to be changed in this article of the 76th proposed law. The last argument for such a request for depolitisation is the recent decision to award the concession to Top Radio Ivan Kačunić, so Top Radio, a series of problems in their application, has undoubtedly been proposed in the tender documentation of an invalid document, some say in the media that they have attached public statements that the documentation is true, in addition, it is said that the award of a concession to that radio is actually a threat to freedom of the media. Competitors of the radio, therefore, owns and other competitive radios on the radio market, whether they are all located in the same address for years and can be easily checked. They have a joint marketing agency, so all these companies, all these related companies, they remain liable for taxes, the state's contributions are whether, therefore, all of them, a series of problems in the award of these concessions to which this Council for Electronic Media has not responded at all, and then civil society associations have reported this all together to the European Commission, so here we are waiting for their reaction. Another Article 24, I mentioned it, and in the first reading, it seems to me that it was 23 at the time, a problem to protect the dignity of politicians. It is a controversial and unclear provision, explicitly forbidden in media contributions to insult man's dignity. The critical media contributions that are critical or problematic, for example, the conduct of a politician or of us all here as officials, the affair in which he is involved, other events of public interest often involve a violation of the dignity of those persons in a legal sense. This is also permitted by our laws and international documents as well as by the decisions of Croatian courts and the European Court of Human Rights. Therefore, this Article 24, in fact, protects dignity is not an absolute right but is subject to restrictions. Therefore, although this provision is contrary to some of our laws and practices of the highest courts, this law gives the Council of Electronic Media authority to decide on a temporary or permanent withdrawal of concession or authorisation to the media service provider if it finds that it has violated that provision. Finally, another proposal from the HND, another proposal from the HND, which we will support here, is the obligation to publish news and inform local radio and television. So far, the obligation has been 10%, and now it has decreased not 4.5% or 7%, so Article 42 considers that it will harm citizens living in these areas and whose local media are the main source of information. In addition, information quality of local and regional media and the additional loss of work of journalists in local communities will also be considered to be reversed in this way. Here's one thing that's good is the introduction of a commitment to fund the production and publication of regional local programmes through a public call on the basis of a publicly published criterion. So that's one advance from how it's done today, given that we all know here and there's talk about today being here to sometimes finance media, ads, promotions in local media actually eventually turn into some kind of corrupt, corruption affair that we've all witnessed up to today. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u60304	Next is the discussion of SDP's Club of Representatives, respected representative Barbara Antolic Vupra.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u60305	Your Honor, ma'am. Minister, the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Attending. As Adriana tells of Adriana, Adriana Cvrtila, who is a whistler, who spoke in love in Kutina, did not go at the time of the Labyrinth which was usually at 21 o'clock on Tuesdays than she did at 4 o'clock in the morning, so we can't have this law on the agenda when it would be available to the wider audience and thus be subject to more critics. But I'll take my turn. Several major government-controlled media, several of the owners of large advertisers control not only the total area of communication but also the way of thinking most of the community, independent and non-profit media are being suffocating, professional journalists are systematically being brought to court because they continue to try to do their ungrateful work. In such a situation, media pluralism is funny and talk. Legal provisions on the protection of pluralism and so far have been ridiculous, and I guess that's why they were partly detained in this proposal, but these new ones are even worse. What today means is a provision that the owner of television cannot have another if we have seen that, or now, a left out provision that television cannot have the one who owns the daily newspaper he had before, while it was an illicit concentration. With the digitisation and impoverishment of media journalists who make television news, it is often necessary to convince them in writing of the article for the portal, and it is not rare that radio shows should be done later. In the situation of deleted borders between written, radio and television journalism, this technology of false protection of pluralism in which the media has long been nothing more than notorous nonsense. Interesting change is seen already in the first reading in the article's title. 64th, where the illicit concentration is changed into an unauthorised change in ownership. Does the promoter mean that all the situations listed there are quite acceptable if media owners have already achieved them in one way or another, or if, instead of changing ownership, they are achieved by changing the level of concession, what kind of legislation is this? However, although we have not been able to reject the old provisions that time has run over, the proposings seem to be aware that something is wrong. Therefore, the grotesque provision of the first reading inadmissible 45% of listening, ratings or reading is replaced by art. 65th with the idea that the media become unacceptablely dominant if they reach a 40% share of the annual income of all providers. On the side that someone can control, say, all the local media, but that the revenues remain below 40% of the total media revenue, but what does the revenue from carrying out the activity mean, are these the total revenues of a media that represents at least how measurable a category? No, it's a fictitious category in which some incomes enter, and some not entirely independent of regulations. Such a type of regulatory tuning of the media that regulators should independently strictly but fairly monitor is called the capture of regulators i.e. The Council for Electronic Media. It does not serve its purpose but comes down to some kind of palitative guardian of the media authorities on their way to bankruptcy. The most controversial part that will have the worst consequences for the low level of pluralism anyway and the abolition of the ban so-called. vertical concentrations of art. 61st, i.e. Art. 61st and 61st, respectively. The 68th draft discussed in the first reading. One Internet infrastructure owner who wanted to own television media at the same time asked the government to do so. Of course, at the service of large capital, she met him and deleted the disputed provision. We will probably hear a series of arguments about how my God is not only in Serbia but everywhere else. No, the ban on vertical integration exists in Austria, Hungary, Slovenia, and so do lawyers and interested companies in the public debate of the draft of this law, trying to make the impression that it is there before the suspension, we will see. Our discussion in the media is difficult to get away from old ideas and old times when we were reading newspapers, listening to TV and watching TV and listening to radio, and all new challenges are trying to translate into allegories from this alleged media idyll. If so, this is about allowing the owner of the newsstand to be a newspaper publisher, even if he removes all newspapers from his kiosk except his own. Instead of at least declaringly protecting the Internet's neutrality on this article. 68. is experimented with a series of provisions on the basis of which the Council for Electronic Media and HACOM should determine the prices of online re-emission with the concession to re-emission the transmitter on the hill. This Croatian version of the Must-offer concept that is being planted on us instead of Must-carry introduces a price regulation that we don't normally object to. We hope that this same logic will also apply to prices of internet access that are too high, as well as prices of apartments, food, etc. Finally, the next HND positions, we believe that the main criterion for the constitution, for the assessment, is to be forgiven, and the media convergence that poses a threat to media pluralism should be the preservation of redactions, production persecutions, or the preservation of the jobs of journalists and media workers. If there is a legitimate concern that the merger of some media in the near and further future could lead to the full closure of certain transactions or whole editorials, then this should be prevented by the competent regulatory authority. The assessment of the permission of the media concentration should be conducted in principle by one owner of one editorial, and publication, whether it publishes a substantive example in radio or also in the written form of an electronic publication with more or less added video at the request of secondary importance. The ban on vertical concentration, distribution and production of media content should be maintained. The pluralism fund should be significantly increased and the Council for Electronic Media separated from the government. At the general level, it is bad that the entire media legislation of the Ministry of Culture decided first to draft a new Law on Electronic Media, without having previously defined a media policy. Before that, it would be logical to adopt a roof law or a new Media Act. We note that this is the first media law to be passed after 15 years. and we expected that if the ministry hadn't already made some serious analysis of the situation in the media would have brought or brought a serious strategy, then we could see what laws we really needed and take care of the obvious problems of media and journalism. And your problem is that we're the ones. In the last few years, 50% of media employees have lost their jobs and the press conditions or working conditions of journalists are becoming increasingly difficult. Not to mention the crisis and further layoffs conditioned by the covid crisis. The old problem and the dependence of the media on political structures, and there is pressure on economic structures, so it is logical that the public loses confidence in the media as well as reflect on their quality. It is therefore illogical for the ministry to pass a law that detects these problems, does not detect or try to solve them. This is the only media law that regulates the allocations of public support to the media through the Fund to promote pluralism and diversity of electronic media, which does not increase even though the need to finance quality journalism has increased multiple times. We all know that for years the advertising money has left only crumbs for the media, especially those local ones, while most of them are being picked up by Google and Facebook. As a result, the media is increasingly committed to the charity of politicians who often abuse various forms of support to the media in order to subdue the media to their goals. The pluralism fund should be perfected, the allocation of money made more transparent, the rules, procedures and criteria specified, but what is most important should be significantly increased. One calculation shows that the fund should be at least 120 million a year in place of today’s 35, given all changes in the media after its introduction. For these and even more reasons, not us law, we will not support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u60306	The next is an individual debate, a distinguished representative of Karolina Vidovic Kristo.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u60307	Ladies and gentlemen, discussing amendments to the law or adopting new laws in HS is extremely frustrating because the laws we adopt are not systematically implemented, the laws should be applied by the state administration, and they should be under the influence of non-transparent centres of power and corrupt structures selectively implement, maliciously interpret or not apply them at all. It is media legislation that is the best example of systematic abuse and non-application of laws to suit corrupt and non-transparent structures. Because there is a Law on Electronic Media, as well as a bill we are discussing unequivocally defines that censorship is prohibited, and also guarantees Croatian citizens the right to objective information. It is all legally necessary to implement the Council for Electronic Media, but this is not the Council for Electronic Media that implements the laws but serves the ruling structures and powerful groups illegally. It does not fulfil the obligations that the law has imposed on it. That's what we see in the radio 101 concession case. I personally asked the council to deliver to me the phonogram minutes from the session where it was decided to award a concession for a 100-unit. The Council sent me an unmistakably written response with various links, but the phonogram did not send me and it depicts the media scene in Croatia, hide, manipulate, lie and play for a short memory of the average man. And again we come to the rights that other European peoples have, and to deny that right to Croatian citizens. Because if it is publicly announced that the Minister of Finance has been caught in a misdemeanor driving a luxury yacht with an entrepreneur who has a very specific way of doing business, then public television is obliged to shed light on the case, and to give Croatian citizens all relevant facts. In Germany, Poland, Slovenia or the Czech Republic, this news would cause a real state crisis, and public television would have extraordinary shows that would shed light on all these facts and give information. Because when the Minister of Finance argues that an entrepreneur who is a Colloquitously speaking classical socialist manager has no business with the state, but please nice, who has branched companies in countries such as the Republic of Liberia and Gibraltar that are famous tax havens, then it is clear that the minister is openly lying to the Croatian public because the Ministry of Finance is in charge of questions about the prevention of money laundering, customs and ultimately the tax administration. But there is another additional problem here, preventing money laundering of Croatian countries working in cooperation with other EU countries because we are a common market. Therefore, this Minister of Finance's behaviour does further damage to the Croatian state and its reputation, but also to our state budget. I ask a question from the Croatian Parliament, who gives public television the right to keep this affair quiet and to cover it up? Furthermore, the current case with the broadcasting of the Labyrinth Emissions, which has affected nepotism and violations of the Kutina law, is another evidence of the illegal action of HRT, but also of illegal tolerance by the Electronic Media Council. The Council was obliged to react to the scandalous fact that the show appeared at 4 a.m. instead of in the usual evening. This is evidence of a shameful and offensive relationship against Croatian citizens. Croatian citizens pay both HRT and the Council, and each other with our money draws citizens by the nose and humiliates us. It should not be surprised that the result of this policy is the injustice, corruption and migration of Croatia. Ladies and gentlemen, working against your own citizens, as the ruling media structures do, will be punished because it has always been through history and has been punished. And believe that we Croats will be able to fight for the rights that other European peoples have, and that is the right to a civilised state, to a functional rule of law and to equality before the law and no Plenkovics, Obula Koržineci, Pupovci or Popovci will take that right away from us. True, justice and justice will win and we will know how to create a righteous, rich and happy Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u60308	Next is an individual debate, honourable representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u60309	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, dear Minister with fellow Members. The Law on Electronic Media in its final proposal, in my opinion, is a good law, given what we heard today and in the other Copyright Act. One series of two laws that really need to settle one important area, absolutely from creation to reproduction... works, so we're surprised by some kind of debate in which it's frustrating to discuss the laws since these MPs show up once in a day, so I guess it's problematic for them to give a speech that hasn't been recorded anywhere, i.e. They don't keep it in Parliament, but they end up on some portals, and of course, they accuse the ruling party of us editing these, portals, journals, television, and I know everything about you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we have different interests, different views of everything that happens in the media world, and now everything we've heard needs to be regulated by the law to go out in some kind of margins, to know what it is doing, how it's done and who's doing it. So, to sort out all these 400 articles in two laws, a really big area. Everyone who looks at us, if they look at us, they may not understand much, but they understand what they're interested in. It's that we really live with the media all day long, from waking up to sleeping, ever since a smart phone appeared, a cell phone that has united everything that can, and television and radio, which can be daily print or let's say, every portal, it's clear that we're on such machines all day long, the vast majority of us, of course, and that we just follow everything that's going on. Finding what's best for me and saying here, I like it, it's just not the easiest thing because they're so fast changing information that it's easy to follow everything that's going on all day long just in this small country, without all the other news, it's not easy. All of this is arranged, too, with hundreds of portals, with dozens and dozens of radio stations throughout the entire country, with twenty local TVs, with national TVs, commercial TVs, all of this is agreed, all of these interests and that it is done and promoted and that media content is created and that it is earned and that all this is done with the articles of the law. Indeed, it is not easy work and these margins that have been given are certainly, in my opinion, contributing to what we had so far because, as we say at all, what was the main one here today pointed out in several speeches that I heard about, so they touched me a little bit, especially Mr. Hasanbegovic's first speech, which is the one that bothers me the most. In 94, and everything Mr. Rasdic later explained on that very article, so comparing it to some septic caves is a really brutal name for what used to happen under these texts on the portals. For us or for me personally. Brutal, because then everything we do on social networks, and the same thing happens, is exactly that, and I don't think social networks are. No matter what comment we find there, so no one is forbidden, whoever produces this same content that's on his portal or on any other media, it appears on the social network, I think it's all allowed. Now, what did we notice? Already some portals have abolished these comments, and I do not see that these content we read has a lower value than the time the comments appeared below. I think that, to say that we're talking about hate, that in some way we're censoring something, I don't think it makes any sense today, given that there's such a wide range of all these possibilities today, especially in the publication of all kinds of media content, it's simply not possible to hide anything, let alone censor anything. The wishes sent to us by the HND are kind of like me and understandable what they're looking for and they're looking for their influences somewhere, etc. But I don't think the media has any influence in the Republic of Croatia. That we can't say in some way that the media can't generate and... Some things. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We're tracking this affair around this portal and this Mrs. Devereaux. in a polyclinic. Here, what's the result here today? With a resignation. So there's power and there's not even a law that can regulate every single moment, relationship, or anything we like or don't like. It happens, and there's definitely no word about censorship, any kind of thing. So, what I'm proposing, I'm really okay with this, and I think that no matter what happens in the future, this is now a new law compared to what, it doesn't mean we haven't had any changes and additions, and it's probably going to show the next year whether we were right or whether what the minister did with her professional people is good for all of us when we talk about regulating all the real rights or things about copyright, up to this Law on Electronic Media. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u60310	There is one replica, the esteemed representative Maria Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u60311	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear colleague, here I agree with you, I have carefully followed both debates and as far as we could see there have been no serious objections, any content objections, or the proposal of the Law of Copyright, or this draft law by the opposition. It seems to me that, in fact, in a very appropriate way, what has not been adequately regulated so far has been regulated in both law and law, so I am also interested in your position as a member. In 94, which prescribes the responsibility of the provider of electronic publications and for the content generated by the user, do you think that it is now fairly or well-defined, compared to the first reading amended, so I am interested in your view on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u60312	So I think that's where the first reading step is made and that I think it's quite clear what is expected of one who wants to generate certain content and what is expected of one who reads it and what it can or can't do. And now to take it down to censorship I wouldn't do it that way because someone has to register and must be warned that by commenting, they might break certain rules. Let them now think about how they will do it, but looking at the experience that has appeared in the meantime, so many of the portals that we follow daily have abolished the possibility of commenting, I don't see that the strength of the texts that have been published or the value of the texts being published is much less because there are no specific comments below. I think it went well today. Today I followed a session of the City Council of Split through a portal that was completely unsuccessful, say no, and it was visible everything that happened from minute to minute, underneath that on the social network you had 10 comments, each had its own vision of it, but it was the value that we followed and what happened to break up one City Council in the city of Split was not something that could compromise the down comment that appeared, no, so I don't see that problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u60313	Following is an individual debate by the respected representative Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u60314	Good evening, everyone. I'd look back on that article now. The 14th century, where I will also submit the amendment, which indicates that it is truly one insolent, at times a really harsh prescriptive law that wants to impose a lot of things and what is and should not be spoken of, and how it will be implemented is the question. So I'm going to quote an article that has already been quoted by several MPs only in this section that is the most problematic. It is said in audiovisual and media services that it is forbidden to encourage and favour the promotion and dissemination of the ideas of fascist, Nazi, communist and other totalitarian regimes. I think the provision is primarily inconclusive, the minister completely avoided the answer to the question by turning the saw upside down to the question of how the implementation would take place, she replied that it was not her pain to say so, but the courts must implement it. But the legal proposals are there, so the law is there and it determines how and what will actually be persecuted, the courts will have to implement what is legally regulated, and the legislator and we saw it from the debate actually do not know what he wanted with this provision and that provision is such that he can only create a series of new disputes. It is not certain that anything can be spoken and written, but it is unclear and we have seen even from today's debate here, which means totalitarianism for some. I, on my pages, have a syntagm of real expansion and promotion of transition and overcoming therefore a capitalist social arrangement for democratic socialism. Many on the left have debated whether socialism or communism is a precise definition of such a prevailing capitalist way of production. Communism is certainly the idea of a better, fairer, unclassified society, and what is really problematic is that it is put here in the context of Nazism and fascism. So Nazism and fascism are ideas that have since the very beginning been totalitarian, which are really regimes, so that are totalitarian, which have never had any idea that was positive and vision that was positive, but it's about a regime based on racial laws while Stalinism that is actually being apostrophy here, but it's called Communism alienation from the communist idea of eating, ideas of a better, fairer, unclassified society which, by the way, is not implemented in any country. So Communism is an idea, Communism is not a eating regime. Communism is primarily a meaning of the economic and class idea of equality, and therefore capitalism has several elements and some regimes that are capitalist are also totalitarian and today and I come into temptation that I will try to overcome if I hand over an amendment that will replace the word Communism with capitalism. What was so visible in this problem was that such ideas as totalitarianism and on the charge of totalitarianism would fall to all sorts of things, as we saw today and in the replica of MP Karoline Vidović Kristo, who also called the minister, but also our valuable and useful historian Hrvoj Klasic, to promote the totalitarian regime of communism. Today it is very transparent that it is totalitarianism, which is precisely the result of the relativisation of the crime of Nazism and fascism, but also of the equalization of communism with Nazism and fascism, which is the tendency of policies that come right from countries where democracy deficits such as Poland and Hungary are increasingly emerging... totalitarianism, and we really must call it an ideologist from the end of the 1990s, and through certain resolutions, they are able to plug into European documents by European conservatives, and that ideologist we know how it is implemented in the Croatian context when the Day of Victims of All Totalitarian Systems is used for a unilaterally and historically falsified image of history. The prime minister refers exclusively to Goli Island never to Ustasha and Ustasha crimes, which is the fundamental totalitarianism we have experienced here. So here's what I'm going to do. I'm going to turn my amendment over. I'm going to do it so I don't turn the word Communism into capitalism.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u60315	Following is an individual debate by the respected representative Zdravka Busic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u60316	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Respected ministers with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. Allow me to briefly address this item of the agenda, and this is the Final Proposal for the Law on Electronic Media submitted to the RS by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Namely, the Committee on Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, which I chair, closely monitors the legal and real position of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, as this position reflects in the proposals for laws that come before this House of Commons. I would also like to stress this occasion the importance of caring and caring for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia who is also guaranteed by the Constitution. In accordance with this, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has continued to seek to improve cooperation with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, whether it is to improve cooperation with the national minority of Croatia living in 12 European states, whether it is a constituent people in BiH or Croatian emigrants in European and overseas states. The position and status of members of the Croatian minority in these 12 countries is different in different countries in accordance with the legislation of these countries and international and bilateral obligations. Each country and time implies specific conditions and specific problems and needs to be continuously adapted to the same context in which we support any intensities of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the care of members of both Croats outside the Republic of Croatia and in the rapidness for members of national minorities in the Republic of Croatia, which is also very important in this case and in this law. I would therefore like to highlight two articles of this law that state the need to preserve Croatian national identity, the equality of members of Croatian minorities and the Croatian national minority and care and the exercise of the right to information, of course. Art. 11. The Law on Electronic Media quotes "the performance of audiovisual and radio programmes and the content of electronic publications of public interest when the programmes relate to the exercise of the right to public information and to the notification of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia and Croats outside Croatia as well as to the preservation of Croatian national and cultural identity. Art. 15th of that same law is now foreseen in audiovisual and radio programmes and electronic publications should promote Croatian cultural gains and encourage listeners and viewers to participate in cultural life, promote the equality of members of national minorities etc."Let me highlight the importance of these articles and support the government's intensity in the care of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia as well as for members of national minorities in the Republic of Croatia. The life of Croats outside the country is extremely important through the media as close as possible to the Croatian public in order to strengthen the awareness of the Croatian people's unity, but in order for the Croatian public to get to know all the problems they face no matter where they live, but also for Croats outside the country to regularly inform us about all the current developments in the Republic of Croatia through all the available opportunities that the digital age offers. It is therefore necessary to maintain a constant flow of this information in both directions, and the law above, the bill provides a quality basis for what I have said. But we all have to take care of his... systematic implementation together. I'd say what I hope everyone here is doing. We'll try and make it happen. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u60317	You have one replica, respected representative Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u60318	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleague Busic. In your speech, you highlighted the role of HRT in reporting on the situation in Croatia to Croats in BiH and vice versa, reporting on Croats in BiH here in the Republic of Croatia. I must point out that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, taxpayers, those who pay HRT tax, are mostly interested in reporting to HRT on the situation in the Republic of Croatia. So HRT lost the role of public service long ago, turned into a voice of the ruling party, and its public information programme lacks content that speaks of other socio-political topics. I will not point out now that this debate at HS HRT does not transmit, it may not be necessary, but it would be sufficient to count the minute in today's day or any other day in HRT programmes as reported on HS's work and Croatian representatives. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u60319	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u60320	Thank you. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My fellow MPs, yes, I agree with a lot of things you said, but this isn't the HRT Act. I was otherwise talking about how and how we should be reporting here and in both directions and of course, this is about all the other electronic media, and about HRT when there's a debate, I'm definitely going to talk about it in part, in good part, and I agree with you. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u60321	Thank you. Next is an individual debate, distinguished representative Eric Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u60322	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the ministry. I will repeat my debate from the first reading, with her being at the beginning principle and looking back at the public debate and the remarks that were made in only one article, and which is the point of my amendment because very specifically, in the first reading we had a concrete text in which I was saying that this was an exaggeration of court practice, which is related to comments on portals. So today in the Republic of Croatia, the case law confirmed that the comments, uh, readers, i.e. the consummations of this information, are this, and which write, things that are correct, but in some cases can also be offensive, diaphate or misleading character, for which the publisher or publisher is responsible or whatever we want to call it, and this case-law has been translated into the norm from the first reading. In particular, it was No 3 in Art. 93, which, in the second reading, in the second reading, becomes the same item, but art. 94 and, therefore, the electronic publication provider is responsible for the full content published in the electronic publication, including the content generated by its.../incomprehensible/... users, e, is added, if it fails to register the user and if it is not in a clear way or easily visible manner warned the user of the commenting rules and of the breach of the provisions of Article 2 of this Article. So I'm comparing that text into these two, so the difference between the first and the second reading, I can only figure out one thing. That, unfortunately, the promoter has succumbed to the pressure of the publisher. Because in this way they are de facto amnesty responsibilities for content because who knows, knows very well that you can register as a false person, as a false identity, and in the case of a more likely complaint for a dispersion, you simply can't sue the publisher anymore than someone has to look for that false identity. No one is going to divaphate the person under their identity, and I doubt the application to that portal, that I might write a comment related to e-Citizens who would confirm that identity. It's very simple, here, recently this episode with the nickname of our President of Parliament, which I think is ugly, but what could I do? He could do, therefore, comment on the President of the Parliament on some news from the Parliament, so which is about legislative authority, write that nickname, he would be published, I would be electronically registered as a fake user, make a screenshot, and then most likely would be deleted, maybe, and maybe not, but the moment I make the screenshot, then I would switch it to social networks and continue to talk, via Facebook, Twitter or anything else. So we did not protect the image and work of the President of the Parliament or of another citizen, an ordinary citizen of the Republic of Croatia. So that's why my amendment, too, is being submitted, and that's going back to the first version, and that you're possibly modalizing how to do that, to leave it to the Council of Electronic Media, who are people of the profession. But there is, because if we've been watching this black-white series recently and it's about the same thing about the VEM, or the Stojnica, they've already had so far before the '90s. Today system, this means that the user on the portal writes an ugly nickname, but before it is published on the portal, among other things, someone controls it before it is published. Therefore, there is no reason not to accept a provision that is related to the first reading of the law because there is a technical and technological way. I know that publishers are afraid that that's why we should pay someone in the night shift, but you can also write on the portal itself, so we're getting comments from Eight o'clock in the morning until half the night. [[Intruder: Time.]] Here. So I think that's what a lot of European countries have certain solutions, it does not stand unless they are countries like [[Intruder: Time.]] is headed by Victor Orban. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u60323	You have one replica of the respected representative Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u60324	Let me give you a little more chance to talk, obviously this has hit you with these comments. I think as much as I wish to agree with you that especially from some of your experiences you don't like to see some ugly comment on yourself, I warn that the Internet network has always been a place of a slightly different type of communication and anonymity has been something that has been real for decades, but we can say even for decades guaranteed and this type of democratic space in which everything can be said has one political dimension so that even from some of us close left circles people think it's wrong to actually make that whole system and this whole media space intensively channeled towards the inability of anonymity and the need to identify ourselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u60325	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u60326	Believe it or not, colleagues Peović, but we are on the same track through this amendment because that we understand ourselves, what they are on the portals today is some letter from the reader no, so the Internet is certainly a lot of democratisation and de facto here is only about matter which is therefore nothing against anonymous or false identities if it is not about what they are, let's say so the sins that are recorded in Article 2 of that same article, so everything else is allowed. However, it should be allowed, but it is up to the publisher to control it because here is only a question, so excluding the publishers or capital from liability for something they are still responsible for, and that is the content they publish.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u60327	Next is the individual debate of the respected representative Urša Raukar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u60328	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable gentlemen from the Ministry of Culture, respected absent culture ministers. Croatia is in a media scene right now shaking scandal over the illegal award of the 101 Top Radio concession and logically that the reflections on this final proposal of the Electronic Media Act are intertwined with this absolutely incredible event. Indeed, the current law makes it clear how the tender is conducted, precise and what documentation is required but five current members and members of the Council for Electronic Media despite this clear legal procedure and legal provisions, means in a word unlawfully awarding concessions to Top Radio, whose owner himself admits that the documentation was incomplete because the document on proof of spatial conditions is worthless. In this amazing story where members of the council are knowingly and publicly acting against the law, and the government is silent about it, instead of putting forward a proposal in the Assembly on their shift and proposing new candidates and candidates who will recognise the minimum, which is the adherence to the positive laws of the Republic of Croatia. So those who are first invited to adhere to the provisions of the Law on Electronic Media decide on their own willfully arbitration, and then we rightly ask ourselves what this new law will do to us when no one in charge has ever responded to this repeated extraordinary event of non-compliance with the law. Why do we need a new law when we don't follow the old one? But good, we should remain optimistic and hope and fight for the rule of law in Croatia and that the laws must not only be respected but also want to be respected. In this bill, I would like to comment on a few things, we welcome that problemed issues have been taken from the debate in the first reading, such as vertical integration, provisions on preventing discrimination and hate speech, and solutions to prevent monopolies and protect competition as well as those that regulate advertising rules are more important. There is still room for improvement but the fact that something has been taken into account in the parliamentary debate needs to be taken into consideration and welcomed. But there are still some problems in the np. in Article 1, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 6th and 7th, 13th, 25th, 42nd, 96th is a strong increase in the scope of the tasks and powers of the Council for Electronic Media, but it is not foreseen which we have already talked about increasing the funding from which the Agency for Electronic Media is financed to ensure additional capacity for increased scope of services and obligations and, of course, increased the funds of the Fund for the promotion of pluralism and diversity of electronic media. In addition, an increase in the number of beneficiaries of the fund is envisaged and additional sources of funding should be provided for, as otherwise, support for quality media content will be so low that the purpose of the fund will be completely annulled, which is to produce quality media content of public interest. There will be additional casualties and already financially manipulated non-profit media, which are in fact almost the only serious and analytical issues dealing with important social issues, issues, problems, and certainly must be said because of the recent scandal with members and council members, I think that the choice of council members and councils should be changed in a way that the elections are being held by the Republic of Croatia, that the Media Committee should call out a public call, then voting eight candidates by two-thirds, and then forwarding them to further conduct and appointments to HS. This would ensure a more democratic process of selecting members and, consequently, a greater depolitisation of the Council for Electronic Media, and probably avoid this unremembered situation where members and council members knowingly and willingly violate the law, and the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not respond to that, I would still believe in this procedure, acting more quickly and more enthusiastically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u60329	Following is an individual debate between respected MPs and Vice-President Sabine Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u60330	Can you just give me back my time? Give me back my time. Thank you very much. Dear Vice President HS, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here's a colleague Rauhar said a lot of things in a different way that I intended to point out myself. It is truly somewhat bizarre that we are in a situation where we are passing a new Law on Electronic Media, and Croatia is shaking one affair that is very much about the adoption of this law, it is, in fact, whatever law we have voted on today, which is our mechanisms tomorrow, and if we are going to observe the violation of that same law from those who should first respect this same law, here I am, of course, talking about an independent regulatory body, which is the Council for Electronic Media. We have a controversial way of electing the Council for Electronic Media as a regulator that should be independent, but is actually directly dependent on the government. We heard, and you're ministers to me the other day when I asked you a concrete question in your current class, you swore in the independence of the media regulatory bodies that you couldn't do absolutely anything on serious suspicion that this council was in violation of the laws passed by this HS and not one but two lex specialists, the Media Act and the Electronic Media Act. And I'll just remind you what you said in 2014. when a proposal to elect two members of the Council for Electronic Media came before the MPs, then your colleague Sunčana Glavak, an expert in this particular area in front of your party, said this is what the HDZ MP meant, as the appointment of two new members of the Electronic Media Council was proposed only on the basis of the résumé of the candidates. Based on the résumé, we must conclude that they are the best or possibly most capable and are placed in a very important media regulatory body at the salary of 14,000 kuna. We don't have the right information because the parent board discussed whether or not the other candidates had a chance. That's what your member said on behalf of your client in 2014. It's 2021 today, so why don't we bring in this paper that you've advocated in 2014.? There are a number of suggestions, people who are dealing with this said we can go to the public presentation of candidates on the parent board, we can also go to that decision by the two-thirds majority in HS. There are various models, make up yours, but do something to depolitize this council, make it more independent and make the whole process more transparent, then this kind of thing that happens today wouldn't happen. But apparently one thing is said when we are in opposition, and the other when we are able to change, change things. When we talk about amendments to this law not only did you not change anything in terms of how we can better choose better quality people in the Council for Electronic Media, you have not even touched the laws that speak of how we can resolve them. But if we assume you didn't do anything about it either, obviously you don't see in this law a regulation to reconsider the legality of the action of this Council for Electronic Media, I will remind you that you are 2016. when the minister in your government was Zlatko Hasanbegovic, who literally abused his position as culture minister to bring non-profit media to ruin by starving funds. In parallel with that, in fact very expressly on his proposal your government has replaced the entire Council for Electronic Media for almost bizarre, bizarre reasons. At the time, it was no problem to react, and today when we have an eclectic violation of the law and very serious doubts that the pluralism of the media is being violated and the various content that the media must provide, you are not doing anything here on the current watch the other day washing your hands of it and telling me that I am calling you to break the law because I am saying that you do something not to act as a DORH, not to act as some other supervisory body but to act as a minister of protection of the implementation of this particular law. These are the two things you missed out on, so you didn't do anything about these, these things, and still until today, some key key key issues related to this Top Radio affair are not answered. It's quite clear, I think you can't answer it, we'll have opportunities on the board to ask specific questions to the members of the Council for Electronic Media if by then you don't decide to take a move that you sincerely want not because we as an opposition are asking you and some association, but because you have to protect both this law and the one that we're going to bring. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u60331	You have two replicas, the first one is Barbara Antoliæ Vupra, the honourable MPs here.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u60332	Dear fellow Glasovac, you spoke of a controversial way of choosing the Council for Electronic Media, you spoke of pluralisation and democracy of the media, how do you think this law or ways of affecting things in society could change things?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u60333	If we're referring to the selection of members if I've understood you correctly, the hate speech. Can you just say it again? Excuse me, could a colleague just, I might have been a little distracted because I'm too tired. ... Well, before... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Young people only through the education system, but also educational and other content projected on the media. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So politically-trained, ordered pamphlets and content that are subject to political editorial policies, that certainly does not contribute to the development of critical opinion in society, media literacy of young people, but obviously when there is the Ministry of Culture which is responsible and for the media system, it has failed, obviously there must be additional steps for the Ministry of Education. Civil education is also one of these spheres where, among other things, young people can be taught how to think with their heads, how to read between lines in the media, how to filter content, how to draw conclusions, but also by speaking and, in fact, to develop a culture of tolerance against hate speech.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u60334	The next replica, respected representative Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u60335	Dear colleagues, I fully agree with everything you said in your presentation. Indeed, it is the core of the problem of this Law, the process of appointing members of the Council for Electronic Media, and this is in some way a matter which I have given a little more attention to. As for those proposals that went towards the appointment process being carried out by a two-thirds majority, there is now our biggest obstacle to the Constitution itself, so Article. 82, which says the Parliament makes decisions and chooses with a simple majority, unless it is explicitly different in the Constitution. And it's hard to imagine that in this state of political climate there would be such a will. And as for those processes that would go through the parent boards, we have the same thing again because in all these parent committees again, there is this political party that actually holds parliament and holds power. So wider reforms are needed and wider procedures for which neither the resolution minister nor the group holding the position will have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u60336	Thank you. I have to agree to that. It is true that the decisions, or the Constitution, define what a two-thirds majority is taking in HS, but this part of the proposal that this whole procedure before the parliamentary committee is more transparent, that candidates are still taking a new step, does not necessarily mean that we would ensure independence, or, to say, that the parties would not have an impact on that choice, or the ruling majority, but I think that this solution is better than the solution that we have today because we see that this is a solution that is in the existing law, valid, which does not change in this Law is obviously a classical abuse because the government appoints the motion of a real minister of culture, which is the same ministry and government, in fact, the Council, depends on their, and the Agency, on the resources that the government gives them, and it is a vicious circle that cannot come out of which it can't come out. But maybe I'm sorry. It can't, time.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u60337	Next individual debate, respected representative Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u60338	My fellow MPs and MPs. And this law, like many in its introduction, has provisions that say that all EU directives are transposed into our national legal order, and when we pay attention only to the matter that each law regulates, then we can say more or less that we are satisfied with the set of these provisions and that we are similarly transposing some of the EU's assets into our legislation and our legal practice. Then where does our problem come from? There's a problem with implementation. What I keep saying, and what I keep pointing to, is that we have a fundamental problem with the creation of institutions and bodies that are responsible for achieving the goals that each law aims to achieve in practice. And when we look at this institutional framework, it's in this case the Council for Electronic Media, as it's drawn up, we see that the real changes, in fact, are gone. We often talk about reforms, however, when reforms need to be implemented in that least possible form, which is to change the process of appointing a regulatory body that would guarantee greater and real independence of that body, then we see what our reform potential is, we can conclude that it really does not exist. So this Law gives the VEM some new powers and extends the scope of work and competence, but in the part that should strengthen the independence of that body, we have done absolutely nothing. And where is this vicious circle? I'll go one step further than my predecessor, colleague Sabina Vosovac, so it's not just about the government proposing, and the Parliament is choosing, and then the government is giving funds, the problem is much deeper and it really needs to understand the essence of political life. Not only form, by shape, HS as a legislative body elects government and controls government, and I ask you, representatives of HDZ and parliamentary majority, do you really have the courage to point out some serious criticism, any of the ministers from the government of your prime minister? You don't. You're raising your hands on Fridays as your party boss tells you. And there is actually a whole of Croatia hostage so much that the provisions of the Constitution, as they write on paper, do not exist in practice. So, from somewhere we need to start, it is not, it is not likely and there is little chance that we will ever agree on amendments to the Constitution at some point, but we can change something, because as long as the head of the main political party is also the head of parliament and of our parliamentary majority, we are talking in vain and that the process of appointment that would be filtered through the parent boards will be some permanent solution. Yes, the process may be more transparent, so we'll see the résumés, but again we'll be stuck on some other provisions that define this appointment process. Here's one of them, for example. it is said that members of the council cannot be employees or in a contractual relationship with any legal person in any relationship with audiovisual media services, as well as persons performing tasks that could result in conflicts of interest. And here's an imperfect legal standard, so it's the one that when he gets hurt we don't know what to do with it. I ask you openly, who will determine by what criteria and circumstances is a potential candidate for an electronic media council member in a conflict of interest, what body is that? This law doesn't define it. We can't even say that it's the Commission's decision-making committee on conflict of interest because someone who hasn't been appointed has not yet become an official, so it's not part of the work and jurisdiction of that body, and even if we intervened in this Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest, so we said well we can say something about candidates or even if the commission, in accordance with its current practice, was giving an indication, so that body did so during my term of office, it wasn't official acts, but it gives some interpretations and guidelines, what would we actually come up with? To the problem we have today, which is that the Committee for Decision on a conflict of interest is a body that cannot decide on a conflict of interest and where are we then? Therefore, all that is said about the regulatory body as a pillar, as the backbones of the implementation of this system, is entangled in the basic provisions both in the process of designation and in the follow-up of their work. There's a wonderful theme that talks about reports.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u60339	Time. We have one replica, respected representative Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u60340	I wonder what you think of the HND's proposal to elect members of the Council for Electronic Media in the assembly by a two-thirds majority?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u60341	Thank you, colleague Peovic. We have already heard that the basic problem is the constitution that says in art. In 82, the Assembly makes decisions by simple majority, and only two-thirds if it is explicitly prescribed in the constitution. But here's when I get a chance to say something about reports. So this body, as well as many others, submit the HS report once a year, and we discuss this report. The tax code lists what the report must contain, and does not say the main thing that if we Assembly representatives do not like the report, whether it withdraws the responsibility of the members of the Council for Electronic Media, whether it will be their resignation or shift, who decides, rules his discretionary assessment, and then who holds the council in his hand, the same government, and where the independence of that regulatory body is then, there is no, as there is no rule of law in the sense of what the rule of law should be. I can't explain it to you any simpler, simpler than that.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u60342	Finally on behalf of the club of representatives of the Centre on GLAS, the respected representative Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u60343	Thank you, President. Here today, many MPs have pointed out the current crisis I will say with a temporary measure of the Halter portal, which we have actually entered, as I did this once today and pointed out in a very dangerous zone in which the borders of allowed and illegal lead ha, would say in a dictatorship where democracy cannot criticise and talk about issues of public interest, where they cannot really question decisions and the work of competent public authorities talk about a system in which democratic control simply does not exist. And what she pointed to. Urša Raukar, when she spoke about the role of these very non-profit media that may be most serious about certain topics in a slightly different way than commercial portals that live on the number of likas and perhaps the simplest content that is more attractive to the public and their tastes, this new law will play an important role with the Fund to promote pluralism and diversity of electronic media and this fund is governed by who, the agency I spoke of, how independent it is, how we did not ensure its independence. Today we were also talking about a major scandal, the problem of this scandal I'm talking about awarding concessions to Top Radio is that despite everything said, despite everything that is unequivocally, factually established, objectively, undeniably, there is no reaction and I wonder what kind of state we have become when there is no reaction to any apparent illegality. The minister spins her thumbs, looks at her cell phone, looks at the laptop or looks at the floor, but the courage to take concrete measures we don't see in sight, it's not talking about, it's clearly silent and intends to keep quiet, and possibly those portals that we could write about in advance will happen to you what happened to the Halter portal because we're about to move on to a new normal in establishing some new us so far unknown court practice. And what does this have to do with this Fund to promote pluralism and diversity of electronic media? So can we imagine the situation in which the government, on the basis of a public call, reads who they like, through its parliamentary majority and chooses someone who fits it, and then the one who fits it needs to decide on the allocation of financial resources to a non-profit portal that has so far shown a marked criticism towards decisions and actions of the current government. Are we going to have a situation again that you pointed to when the resolute minister was Mr. Hasanbegovic, when portals fell to the bottom of their existential existence and what consequences it will be, so I'm not going to be open to the portal, it's up to me to what is actually a public interest, which is objective, complete information and one insight, one critical review that unfortunately disappears more and more from the rest of the available media content, from other newspaper articles, and on the reporting and information emissions of HRT that I don't even speak. If we want to change, if we want to make real structural changes, we have to start with how our institutions are set up. Once we put the institutions right, we'll be able to say that the state is also set up right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u60344	Following is the final debate on behalf of the HSS and RF Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u60345	Here's what I'm going to do. I'm just going to try to be expedient because it's already late, and what I wanted to end up with is the amendments we're going to propose. So one amendment is related to the article. The 14th century, which we believe should be deleted because the provision that imposes on audiovisual and media services is forbidden to encourage and benefit from the promotion and dissemination of the ideas of fascist, Nazi, communist and other totalitarian regimes is primarily ineligible, and it is certainly such that it will open up a series of disputes. Amendment 2 is attached to the Article. 38. which we also consider to be deleted because advertising by state authorities and public companies in commercial electronic media is actually advertising, and this is a second name for corruption, and so we saw in the Fimi Media case where public companies and public authorities transferred local media to the most often fictitious advertising that public money, which was later used for election campaigns of HDZ or private consumption of HDZ leaders. So funding should be implemented through public support, we believe. Amendment 3 is therefore related to the fact that practically what the HND warned was happening, the troublemakers believe that the final proposal for the Electronic Media Act resulted in a reduction in the obligation and publication of the news and notification of local broadcasting from 10% to only 4-5 or 7% of the programme proposed in Article. 42. Therefore, these amendments allow these percentages to increase with respect to the area and population, or increase to at least double, so from current ones, as the current bill put 4% in the area of coverage up to 19.999 people in our amendments to 8, so it also means the area of coverage from 20,000 to 99.999 residents we put from 5 in the current proposal to 10% and with the meaning coverage area of 100,000 to 19.999 means 12% and the area of coverage greater than 200,000 inhabitants to mean at least 14% of the total weekly audiovisual or radio programme which is therefore directed or dedicated to the news means from the area of concession, so we think that it is important that these local media have coverage and that it is talked about local topics, but what is very important is not to get rid of workers in these media. And the last amendment, i.e. Art. In 76nd century, however, we added this item even though colleague Oreshkovic warned that it might not be quite possible, so that it is chosen by the two-thirds majority according to the HND's regiments, but what is really important is that two members still come from the press ranks and that in some way try to regulate this addiction of the media on political structures as much as possible, and we see at, especially at the local level, that it is very difficult and the question is, in which way can you even jump into that corruption and the best laws and even the concept of clientism and corruption would be spoken. It may be fairer when you have a party card, so you know who belongs to the one who appears in the contest than when that clientelism and corruption is actually covered up by all possible relationships, but there is no party card in your pocket as if the presence or belonging to a lobbyist circle must be defined by a party card as if it can't be followed around. So that's the question that needs to be resolved anyway, but here we went for this HND proposal to go to the two-thirds majority because it certainly wouldn't be like that, there wouldn't be any actual and active, meaning delegations, delegations, and this one political option that in this new way there is, there's no, there's no other possibility, there's no pluralism. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u60346	On behalf of the Proposer, Minister Nina Obuljen Koržinek.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u60347	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here I thank all MPs and MPs, especially those on the left and on the right of the hall who stayed and gave us the opportunity to answer a number of questions and comments. I have to express regret that here and this time, and unfortunately that happens when we are in a meeting with media regulations, one part of the debate has really been brought up by topics that are not in this law, they are not proposed, they do not come out of the text, but here's the wave so otherwise can't be. I would briefly refer to those topics that seem important to me either to comment or to remove some. I will go in order, not according to law, but according to what the MPs said. No, I wasn't looking at the phone or the computer because I wasn't listening to you, because I was writing down everything the MPs and MPs were saying all the time. So, the subject of the percentage and the share of Croatian music and even the quota of them connects them to this law, something and in the previous one that we talked about, are actually they instructive, the quotas have their own good and bad sides, we think it is good to gradually increase them to the moment until these quotas actually result in what both MP and vice president Škoro are, and has stated in some other countries that you so much increase the level of production that you actually reach that standard regardless of the quotas. And I have to say that's the case in Croatia with radios, so absolutely all radios except for one that specializes in exclusively international music, but all radios cross this quota that I have indicated here. Unfortunately, the topics that do not come out of this law and which, for the sake of the record and for the sake of the Croatian public, need to be removed here. So the insinuations on censorship are absolutely unfounded either in this law or in other laws. There was talk of love and hatred, there was no more representative of Rasputic here, but here I had the opportunity to read some of his articles scientific about Machiavelli, so I realized that it was actually in those articles in this law that were certainly not found. I agree with what is highlighted about the necessity of fostering a culture of dialogue, as well as a culture of public debate. This law as well as other laws respects the specific needs of both the national minorities and the Croatian minorities in other countries to the extent that it is realistic to expect commercial media that are nevertheless turned, of course, and the achievement of their commercial interests to develop and finance such content. What is typical of this law, both in previous iterations and in these, is the fact that great attention is paid to the protection of minors, so in all aspects and in general to regulate the protection of vulnerable groups and in terms of new advertising provisions, especially regarding gambling, advertising of energy drinks, but also other provisions relating to the protection of the most sensitive. It was pointed out that the Council for Electronic Media should be more active in the reactions to hate speech. We believe that this law leaves sufficient space for the regulator to take up that space and that he really responds, not necessarily only to some sanctions, but also only to register some negative phenomena or by calling on them, but to fulfill part of his function. There were also proposals here to form some media independence fund, but the media pluralism fund meets that function and it is primarily intended to finance independent media. It may have been meant to be non-profits, but the non-profit media are involved, covered by funding the fund. I must once again point out especially in the context of the thesis that most tolerate the concealment of ownership, not transparent financing, etc. It is this law that we have proposed and that we really expected to get broad support in these provisions, if I may say so address these key problems that are tearing down trust in the media, which is a question of public ownership, transparency of funding and here are really big steps in this sense and I am glad that at least most this step has been noticed and commented. Regarding the remarks of the Croatian Journalist Society, firstly it is not simple or true that not a single HND remark has been adopted, therefore it does not stand, we have clearly explained it in the first reading and on the committees. I don't know why you keep saying that. However, the provision on a two-thirds vote is not about members of the council simply not based in the Constitution, and this proposal would indeed be a precedent for two members of the Electronic Media Council to be elected on the proposal. You are MPs with your mandates and you choose those you want to choose and cannot be there to equalize the Assembly with one association as much as it representative or not representative. In view of the requirements for new sources of funding, it is completely neglected that the continued demand for additional sources from the budget to be found for funding, the fact that we have provided for the first time for media from the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, that in this financial perspective, the EU has repeatedly announced the launch of a series of competitions open to the media, so just as our stakeholders in the field of culture can apply to European funds now can journalists. We also started education, we helped among other things and the HND which was in one application to prepare this application. So, I think we need to turn not only national but international sources of funding. I must admit, I don't understand that requirement to eliminate advertising would simply mean pluralism especially of small media. I think the path we are proposing is to make this funding a transparent only way to ensure the sustainability of the media. As regards the proposal that the minimum number of concessions for non-profit publishers should be determined by law, neither is it part of this law, nor is it the principle on which frequencies are assigned. In relation to a whole series of comments made on behalf of the SDP Club by counterpart Antolic, MP Antolic, it is indeed, we recognize and reflect on the authors of these comments, but with the aim of suffocating the non-profit media that the legal provisions on pluralism are ridiculous, that Article 40, 64, that the concept of change of ownership has been missed and everything that is written here must indeed be completely removed. What does the revenue from carrying out the activity mean? Well, it is clear what the revenues from carrying out the activity mean because it is based on the tax application. So then the issue of income, the achievement of revenue from Google and Facebook, we have just interpreted it in the debate on the previous law why it is important to establish a new copyright protection regime in order to achieve this, and I have to admit among the more unusual thesis goes that the government is always at the service of large capital. It is indeed one rhetoric that I find totally inappropriate in the context of the debate on the Law on Electronic Media. I will also clarify the question of the difference between a must carry and a must offer concept or obligation to transfer to the obligation of the offer. One is regulated by the Law on Electronic Media and the other by the Law on Electronic Communications, which is the difference. My colleague's gone, so I'm responding to you now because it was your club's position. The need to separate the Council for Electronic Media from the Government, as well as a whole series of independent regulators, has been established as established in accordance with Croatian laws. This is not the only council, nor is it special to the other. As I said we are always open to debate whether there is a way to access and monitor the work of these regulators and the way of choice etc. I would like to point out, however, that this law is precisely what we propose to raise the criteria for selecting council members, which has not so far been the case in relation to both their expertise and other criteria. I see, I don't think there's any need to refer to specific comments that the government would replace someone, that the government would oversee courts, that the government would change the decisions of the courts, that everything through the debate was imputed and based on this event from now on, I think we need to be careful when we call upon such institutes, and at the same time we want to propose in the name of independence a 2/3 way of choosing a body that is not foreseen by the Constitution. I think it's important that we all stick to those frameworks of law and constitution, and then, in that context, we strengthen institutions. As regards the issue of civic education, I must point out on this and on the issues of media literacy, and I also pointed out in the opening part what a great contribution the Council for Electronic Media has made to the development of media literacy through a project to promote media literacy. Last year, they were also awarded at European level as the best project. It is implemented both in schools and through the media and through various forms of formal and informal education, and I think that in this context, questioning individual council decisions or agencies for this part of the work should certainly give them recognition. A small comment in brackets, it is also said here that the government appoints members of the council on the proposal of the Ministry of Culture and Media, no, no mention is made of the Ministry of Culture and Media, neither in the current nor in the future law. Finally, it is said here that only on Fridays hands are raised, they do not raise their hands on Fridays, we have shown it as most of them, and on these laws, that from the first to the second reading we have respected a whole series of remarks, regardless of which side of this assembly they came from if they are good, if they are enforceable and if they can improve the law. So we cannot raise hands that are not in accordance with the Constitution, we would not improve the law and rely on the premises and the thesis that are not in the laws that we speak of. The question has been asked what if you do not like the report on the Council for, on the work of the Council for Electronic Media, and you can accept it, you can vote for it, against it or be held back as well as any other report that comes to this high house. I'll finally thank you again for the helpful suggestions. We will, of course, consider all the comments that have been made and hopefully, we hope and believe that this law as well as the previous law will receive broad support because we are convinced that it brings a number of important improvements that will contribute to the development of electronic media in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-23-0.u60348	Thank you, Minister. We've exhausted the debate with this. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We will continue tomorrow at 9.30 a.m. by supplementing the agenda and the Final Proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on the Protection of Investments between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, of the other part. Here, good night. Session adjourned at 22.53 hours.
