ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u42759	[[CONTINUES AFTER MEETING IN 12.06 HOURS]] Before we move on to a few things, now that we've all gathered again to congratulate all the newly elected mayors, mayors and commissioners and I wish them a lot of success in their future work. Secondly, I am announcing a session of the presidency for Tuesday where we will redefine the rules of sitting in the assembly since we have received from headquarters the opportunity to increase the number of MPs and MPs in the assembly, we will do so, but also to agree on quotas and all that we have done so far, so on Tuesday there will be this session. And the third thing, on Wednesday, we're going to start by supplementing the agenda, we're going to debate as the first point of budget rebalancing, so you can get ready, today it's up to the government, and by tonight, at the latest, you're going to get a proposal for budget rebalancing so that you can prepare yourself. That's it. Now we're gonna do it in accordance with article. 226.St. 2. I will propose to the Rules of Procedure an addition to the 7th session agenda with 6 new points. You have received this proposal by electronic means. Art. The 227 determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is subject to an emergency procedure, and Article 227 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. It sets out that, following an urgent procedure, laws are adopted which comply with EU documents if requested by the applicant and are not voted on. This is the point of the first submission, in accordance with Article. The 206th century is 1. I hereby declare that this legislative proposal is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the law under point 2 of the proposed amendment? This is the point of the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Mandatory Relations. He's a colleague of Hrelja's. If there are no objections, I consider that the proposal for an emergency procedure is accepted in accordance with Article. 205. There were no written objections to the remaining items of the agenda. I find that all the proposed points are included in the 7th session agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u42817	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I ask you to take our seats, who wants to stay, who doesn't want to probably leave. And we are going to present a position on behalf of the clubs of MPs and independent representatives and the first one will speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Homeland Movement, the respected representative of Ruzica Vukovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u42818	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues and fellow MPs. Today I will talk about the draft strategy for the agricultural production of the Republic of Croatia since 2020 – 2030. The agriculture strategy is the most important document for the development and planning of activities in Agrocompeks. Agrocomplex integrates production, processing, transport and consumption of agricultural and food products in modern market agriculture. The strategy should be horizontally and vertically linked to these components and thus be the basis for the development of a national strategic plan as part of the EU's common agricultural policy in the programming period of 2021-2027. The Ministry of Agriculture has given a project task to the World Bank to develop a strategy that has defined four objectives and 15 needs of the agriculture and food industry sector. The intention is extremely positive, but certain laws in the agriculture sector of the Republic of Croatia such as the Law on the CAP and the Law on Agricultural Land make the strategy inconclusive. According to the OPG Act, there was a need but did not implement the OPG regulation and harmonisation through which we would receive accurate information on the structure, facilities, machinery and members of the OPG. The agricultural land law makes the strategy inconclusive since it allows units of local self-government to determine the maximum land for lease and sell by agricultural holding, which makes up almost 450 different approaches to the size of the agricultural holding in the Republic of Croatia. According to statistical indicators, 421,000 hectares are not in the system of registering the use of agricultural land, therefore there is no possibility for these areas to exercise the right to direct payments in agriculture and the IAC towards rural development, therefore they are a loss for the Republic of Croatia. This is a major failure of agricultural policies, but also a strategy for the development of agriculture that has not defined how these areas are introduced into the ARCOD system. If we take into account an area of 421,000 hectares and an average of 629 euros in support per hectare from both pillars, Croatia currently loses 261m euros at the annual level. The strategy did not cover the possibility of drying and storing cereals and olives and analysed existing storage facilities as well as objectives and strategies to increase by 2030. With the existing 2.5 million tonnes in Croatia, we miss at least another million tonnes of storage silo capacity. The agriculture strategy should also include a strategy of agricultural technology, which forms an integral part of the machinery of plant production and the machinery of livestock production. Agricultural machinery is an essential part of raising the level of competitiveness of agriculture. In Croatia in 2020 We have 129,694 tractors of an average age of 32 years, the livestock sector, particularly the sensitive sector and the dairy economy, the bovine economy and pigmeat should have a special approach since there is a large disproportionate market price for corn, soybeans, sunflowers and livestock and meat and milk prices where the inputs have increased by 50%, and the price of meat and milk is kept at the same level which is economically unsustainable. The cattlemen should be able to process into high quality and recognizable final products and thus increase revenues by horizontally linking the production of the processing industry and tourism to create a common brand of meat, milk and eggs GMO free. Fiscal policy or tax policy should be implemented by the EU rules on the tax exemption of agriculture. Croatian agriculture requires strong access and consensus from all actors on the political scene. There must be an agreement there because it is a strategic, national interest. The strategy provides for the doubling of agricultural production by 2030, which is very ambitious but feasible in just one case, which is that politics only has an impact when Parliament needs to adopt the strategy unanimously, and everything else, so running and thinking and making a strategy must be entrusted with the profession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u43173	The next Club of Representatives will be the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Davorko Vidovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u43174	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to start with a little observation about an unrenewable resource that we, too, in politics, understand the unconscious consequences of its irresponsible spending. It's about time. If we do not use it rationally, they can be incorrigible, in some other time they can be very expensive, they can change the lives of many people, even many generations. This observation of time related to the subject of revitalisation, which will say the restoration of life in Croatia, at an earthquake, and before that with wars and carelessness, irresponsibility, the ignorance of the affected area of Sisak and Banija. In fact, time here is a dramaticly important resource. Any hesitation, reluctantness or mere bureaucratic laziness in the revitalisation and restoration can and already produce consequences whose tragic outcomes are not only for this space but for Croatia as a whole I do not have the simple time to talk here. I'll just remind you that for the release of that space in the Homeland War, thousands of human lives have been lost, thousands of people have suffered the great suffering of their most beloved, wounded, displaced, lost property. For many people, Bani remained a lost legacy, and I mean not only those who left that space forever during the war but also more than 43,000 mostly young people who left that space from 2001 to 2018. It's 23% of the population. At that time, if only I were to say, Croatia lost 5% of its population. I note that it is a space within a 70km radius of the Jelačić Square, a place of great natural potential, valuable cultural heritage and inescapable economic potentials that have been significantly better used in the time since half a century ago than we use it today. The space and such space added to the very bottom of Croatia's development at the end of last year. I must say that I was pleasantly surprised when the government reacted quickly and after a dozen days, established a government task force that was joined by ministry representatives, all of us representatives of the sixth constituency, experts, etc. On 2 February, an expert expert working group was formed for the development of the Sisak-Moslavina County Revitalisation Programme led by Prof. Chavlag from the Faculty of Economics in Zagreb. And everything is said at that moment of chaos, ruins, missing containers but we have to say the unseen solidarity of people seemed like a ray of light in that dreary reality. The expert working group is not for three years, not for 30 million kuna, not made up of anonymously reportedly thousands of people, as was the case with the National Strategy in just three weeks free of charge and with the signature delivered to the first working group, and then to the Government a document of the social and economic revitalisation programme of the assisted area of the SMZ affected by the earthquake. It is a summary document of 60 pages based on scientific and professional based analysis and trends and conditions. A set of 120 measures economic, demographic, social, cultural reconstruction and revitalisation. And not just that. The document contains a very clear plan for the implementation of the programme, for its full implementation. The particular value of the document is clearly defined and the principles, assumptions and social revitalisation, mission, vision, objectives. I must say, there are five main and 25 specific objectives. And now it's the most important thing. The document represents a completely new concept, a new development paradigm of regional development in which Croatia has been tragically lagging behind for 30 years, as demographically empty, economically weak and generally closes the perspective of the entire development of the country, which has led us to the very bottom of the EU. Since March 23rd, the programme has been on the table of prime ministers. We didn't find out, we don't know if that program was any good, whether to throw it away as a whole, whether to throw it away in pieces, whether it's too expensive. It costs only 10 billion, cost under quotes, 10 billion kunas that would generate 16 billion in 10 years. That's the price of one and a half squadrons.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u43175	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Damir Habjan will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u43270	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, here today, on behalf of the HDZ Club, I will refer to the continued payment of support for the preservation of jobs in activities affected by the Covid 19 disease pandemic. I would also like to recall that last March at the beginning of the spread of Covid 19 disease there was a legitimate concern that the pandemic would have very negative consequences on the economic picture of Croatia as well as on the labour market by certain MPs predicted a figure of nearly 400,000 unemployed by the end of 2020. With the rapid reaction of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, support was formed to preserve jobs in the activities of the affected coronary virus, which ultimately prevented mass layoffs of workers, provided fixed monthly amounts for the same, and facilitated business for entrepreneurs who were most affected by the measures to prevent the spread of the coronary virus. Since the beginning of the implementation of the job conservation measure, from March 2020 until the end of May 31st 2021, a total of 10 billion 78 million kuna has been paid in the activities of the corona virus affected. In total, 521 million kuna contributions were paid, and a total of 361 million kuna was paid for the refund of fixed costs. If we look at the total number of workers and employers covered by the support, then we see that the same applies to almost 120,000 employers and almost 700,000 workers. Supports for the preservation of jobs in activities affected by the corona virus and earthquake-affected areas will continue in June as a new measure for March, April and May 2021. Namely, the Administrative Council of the Croatian Employment Institute held on 31 May 2021 decided on a new measure of support for the preservation of jobs in activities affected by the Coronation Virus as well as the consequences of the earthquake caused by the earthquake in Sisak-Moslavina, Zagreb and Karlovac County for June. By 31 January 2021, all employers who registered their activities may apply to workers employed by 31 May 2021 at the latest. Requests for support for June will be accepted from 24 June 2021 until the end of July 23, 2021. In order to achieve support, employers will need to prove that, from 1 April 2020 to September 2020, they have had a fall in income, i.e. income from the same period in 2019, and this is based on the surrender of VAT forms for the mentioned months. Alternatively, it will need to prove that in June 2021 they had a fall in income, i.e. receipts compared to June 2019, and this is based on the surrender of VAT forms for June 2021 and June 2019. Exceptionally, employers established before 1 April 2019 who did not immediately start operating in terms of revenue and for this reason do not have data for comparison under these criteria will have to prove that in the month for which they requested support they had a fall in revenue, i.e. receipts from the first full calendar month of business. As evidence, employers are obliged to deliver the first issued account. It is important to stress that employers who have been closed by the decisions of the Civil Protection Staff, therefore either of the national, county or local self-government units, and by a decision of the epidemiologist, should not prove that they have had a fall in income, i.e. income, and may use support only for the month in which they are closed to those decisions. All of this, therefore, has certainly had an effect on the movement of the Croatian economy. In fact, the Croatian economy dropped only 0.7% in the first quarter of this year compared to the same period last year, which is the smallest drop since the start of the corona crisis and shows that the economy is on the way to recovery. Also, compared to the EU average, the Croatian economy also recorded better results. According to seasonally adjusted GDP data, 5.8% increased in the first quarter at quarterly level, while 0.9% slipped at the annual level. If we compare that to the data, then for the EU, we see that the decline in the first quarter was 1.7%, i.e. the previous quarter dropped 0.4%. The final continuation of the payment of support for the preservation of jobs in activities affected by the Covid 19 disease pandemic, along with all other measures to assist the economy provided by this Government, shows that they do indeed produce very good results. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u43364	The next Club of Representatives will be the MOST on behalf of whom the respected representative Marija Selak Rasdic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u43365	Today I'm going to talk about a new blow, a quiet blow that hasn't been seen in public in the pocket of parents who have children students. On 28 May, a new document of HZJZ was issued, called the possibility of taking the children out of the classroom class related to the Covid-19 pandemic, i.e. how and under what conditions they take the children to prom. And that document says something very interesting. Therefore, there are certain criteria for going on several days' journeys, including these criteria which are the same for the Covid passport, so those who have been over or those who have been vaccinated or those who have been tested are those who can access such trips. And now here comes the interesting part. The document says that possible costs, there are no possible costs only, the testing organisation will be borne by a tourist agency. And now it's going into parentheses, covering the price of travel. So, did parents become travel agencies? As far as I know, they're not. So the above can mean only one thing, the price of travel will increase by as much as costs of testing or to translate if you want your child to travel you parents will have to pay for testing for your children. And the document didn't want to tell you explicitly, but it's being taken out to a travel agency that suggests that its costs will grow freely. Indeed, after parents couldn’t get the money they paid for prom trips that had been delayed because of the pandemic, they are now burdened with the costs of testing so that their children can attend the same trips that many already have. Is that discrimination on social grounds? Where is the right to introduce such criteria? The second discrimination that takes place in this document is discrimination against teachers or teachers who lead children on trips who say that the advantage of taking part in extracurricular participation should be given when possible by vaccinated teachers or teachers who have been over Covid. Where does the right to such discrimination come from? Those who have been tested are not listed, so if you have been vaccinated suddenly you have the right to certain social privileges. Will this also apply to all other aspects of life? If not, how can such discrimination be brought into the lead of a student on a multi-day journey? Also, keep your eyes open. For Covid passports, at least for a certain number of days one dose of vaccine is sufficient to allow you to move freely outside Croatia in the future or enter Croatia. However, if you are, for example, an ordinary professor, not a desired tourist if you have only been vaccinated once a dose of the vaccine, you still need to test yourself before you can travel with the students in Croatia. Is it double criteria, discrimination, or is it just proverbial cremation and lack of systematic thinking? Ladies and gentlemen, how far? And the last thing I want to say is when we've already gone through the revision of epidemiological measures that need to be revised and epidemiological measures where people are most important. For hospital visits or to establish clear epidemiological criteria when they will be possible again. People who are sick, who are wounded cry for their loved ones. For example, can such a Covid passport apply to visitors? They are needed because of various and frequent complaints from citizens that appear to us clear channels that will inform family members about the health condition of a hospitalized individual. Citizens continue to complain that they cannot reach their loved ones or are able to obtain information about their health. When will clear channels be established, not 50 times the sound hospital, burdens both nurses and doctors, that citizens know how to get information about their loved ones? When will an epidemiological criterion be established that citizens finally know when and under what conditions to visit their loved ones? We acted in some places, on others as a journey of children we introduced discrimination, and on the third most important visits to hospitals we completely missed Look at the new epidemiological situation. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u43457	She will now speak to a respected representative, Karolina Vidovic Kristo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u43458	Ladies and gentlemen, a few months ago there were local elections in Bavaria, and despite the pandemic, the turnout was about 59%. Otherwise, national turnout in Germany in the last 30 years is between 72 and 85%. About 40% of voters went to the polls in Croatia last week. In the last parliamentary elections, as many as 55% saw no point in voting, so today's government was chosen by only 45% of Croatian voters. It's clear why. The key areas of the Croatian state from justice, health, CNB to agriculture are devastated, and are not in the function of Croatian citizens, for which these systems exist, but serve narrow interest groups. All governments in the last twenty years have contributed to this, and the media has assisted this type of policy. Politicians no longer hide that they are their own purpose, and that is what citizens feel, for example, through daily bizarre debates that have nothing to do with the real problems that silence Croatian people. Therefore, a loud protest by Croatian citizens was sent to all management structures in Croatia. There's a song from the '90s that says to move us around so there's less of us. That is exactly what Croatian politicians did, because they are not interested in the well-being of the Croatian man but in their authority. We have an example of Lika-Sen County. The area of the county is about 5,000 square kilometers, with 50,000 inhabitants living in it. It is twice as small as 613 000 people to compare the Luxembourg country. In the devastated face, the new mayor will rule the county with 12,000 votes. The image of ladies and gentlemen as the whole of Croatia is beautiful from Gacka to Plitvice Lakes. You're on the highway in two hours in Zagreb. By all criteria, Lika should have five times as many inhabitants, but prosperity cannot live under the same roof as illegality and corruption. Orders and laws are a prerequisite for prosperity. It is precisely because of the permanent corruption that we have this dramatic discharge of Croatia. There's no affair with us, and they're good at hiding, and there's no legal epilogue of their own. We had a mega affair in Agrokor, and people who were directly involved in the CNB affair, Boris Vujčić and Finance Minister Zdravko Maric, not that they were not responsible for their actions. On the contrary, they both had an extended term as if nothing had happened. Let's get back to square one. Why is the election high in Germany? A year ago, there was a so-called. the Vajerkard affair. It's a financial branch, and bankruptcy has caused a great deal of damage to investors. Because of the failure in his work, the chief of Buffalo, it was their Hanfa and the entire leadership had to resign, even the head of the Auditory Company Supervisory Agency. It is called responsibility, and for this reason the German sees the point of going to elections because the system serves its purpose. Why doesn't the Croat see the point of going to the election? Let's take the Agrocor case. We have a public publication of correspondence that proves that individual lawyers are in a direct conflict of interest as well as politicians and various counselors. And what happened today? Nothing. This has all been known for four years. The functional legal order is a prerequisite for economic prosperity, but economic prosperity and legal order are the main fear of Croatia's political peak. If courts and lawyers were to do their job, the vast majority of today's political establishment would not be in positions of office but would be subject to black chronicles. Therefore, the fundamental objective of the Croatian governing structures is not the functioning of the rule of law as a provision for maintaining them in positions and for retaining non-acceptable privileges. Let's just look at the fresh example of Dragan Crnogorec, who in the state-owned company Plinacro receives 15,000 kuna wages and does not come to work. It is clear to everyone that the criminal act was provided by Plenkovic and Pupovac, the prime minister would resign in the normal system, and Pupovac and Montenegrin would be prosecuted for corruption. But with this taboo theme, you will not read this abuse in any newspaper or see it on any television, it is called media darkness directed by the ruling structure. But we Croatian citizens, taxpayers must no longer remain silent, we must seek the application of the law to which we are entitled, we must not allow the right of any political corrupt structures to take away from us constantly. Hope gives me the fact that most Croatian people, by not going to the polls, say that they have seen the media's political judicial abusers and only those figures prove that they are not satisfied much more than those who voted for this current ruling caste. Croatia is ladies and gentlemen of the EU, Croatians are old European people and we will know each other to vote for the rule of law, and today's ruling structures must know that they will have to answer for their abuses. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u43459	Thank you. This will end today's work, I want you to have a pleasant time tomorrow's Body, and then we'll see each other again Wednesday as announced. Bye. WEEK, WEEK, WEEK, WEEK, WEEK, WEEK, WEEK, WEEK, WEEK.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u44570	We're starting the vote now. The first is the MIP's report on the suspension of MP Rajko Ostojić's term of office and the termination of his post as deputy representative of Domagoj Price. The debate is closed, so I am voting on a decision to suspend MP Rajko Ostojic's term of office and to stop acting as deputy representative of Domagoj Price. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find it unanimous with 132 votes for the decision made as proposed by the MIP. Proposal for an institutional framework law for the use of EU funds in the Republic of Croatia, first reading, P.Z. No. 135. The motion is Government, the debate is closed. In line with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The proposal for a law on an institutional framework for the use of EU funds in the Republic of Croatia and 2. All objections and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when determining the text of the final draft law." Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 122 MPs and MPs voted, 80 were for, 38 abstentions and 4 against and thus the conclusion was reached as proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u47974	Thank you very much. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Amendment to Art. Ten. The Legislative Committee shall be adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u47975	He becomes an integral part of the law. And the second is the amendment of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u47976	Thank you very much. The amendment is denied. When adopting a regulation, it is necessary to carry out a prescribed procedure involving the indication of a larger number of bodies and to include actions specifically prescribed by the deadlines, in particular consultation with the interested public. In addition, that 60-day period is of an instructive nature and does not mean that the regulation will not be adopted before it expires but represents the deadline for its adoption. In particular, it is pointed out that the new regulation is adopted solely because of the need for formal harmonisation with the new legal framework and no modification of the amount of compensation is planned, and until a new regulation is adopted in force, the existing regulation does not result in urgency, as in the case of the law in question, which abolishes administrative fees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u47977	Here's a colleague of Buck's.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u47978	Thank you very much, President. This law therefore short-listed some fees, and some fees remain valid. We passed the law in an emergency procedure, he's here in the procedure on May 6th and in less than 30 days we'll bring him in. As usual, whenever it comes to laws that are in favour of citizens, we will support this law as we have done in all such situations. However, we do not see that there is any reason in particular, given that the emergency procedure has any reason to leave a deadline of as much as 60 days for the adoption of that regulation, which defines the scope and the level of compensation, that is, before the representatives of the Government assured us and assured us both at committee meetings and at the plenary session that actually the height and content of these fees will not change. Therefore, we think that there is really no reason to leave such a long deadline for the adoption of this Regulation and then we remain with that amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u47979	Thank you, too. We're going to have to vote on an amendment to the Club of Representatives that the government does not accept. Please, let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? 119 also voted 44 for, 1 abstention, 74 against, therefore, the amendments did not receive the required number of votes, so I am voting on the final proposal of the IPR Law. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 123 MPs and MPs, 122 for, 1 abstention and thus the IPR Law was passed. Official Ombudsman’s report for 2018. She's the lawyer's mother-in-law's mother-in-law. The debate was concluded in accordance with the proposal of the home working body of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. I am voting on the following conclusion: A report by the Advocate General for 2018 is being taken into account. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 119 MPs and MPs, 73 for, 4 abstentions, 42 against, and thus the conclusion was reached as proposed by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u48778	Mr. President, I ask you, on behalf of the SDP Club, to put on the vote and the proposal of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, because it is not contradictory of what the HS adopted, so accepting the report is not contradictory with the receipt of knowledge, but it could be an appraisal to express myself so Croatian to this report, and you would also allow part of the MPs to express their position on the Ombudsman's report because the conclusion on receiving the knowledge cannot fully cover all the positions that the clubs have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u48779	I mean, we've come to this conclusion, this conclusion, so this second one is groundless, so we usually do when we make one conclusion, we can't make the other one. Therefore, as I said to the applicant's lawyer, the hearing was concluded, and again in line with the proposal of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, I am giving the following conclusion: A report by the Advocate General for 2019 shall be taken into account. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? 118 deputies and MPs voted, 72 for, 5 abstentions and 41 against, and thus concluded that it was proposed by the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. A report by the Ombudsman for 2020, re-proposal of the Ombudsman, the debate has been concluded, in accordance with the proposal of the Committee of Constitutional Works, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, I am giving the following conclusion: A report by the Advocate General for 2020 shall be taken into account. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 118 MPs and MPs, 73 for, 5 abstentions and 40 against, have voted, and thus the conclusion has been reached as proposed by the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u49330	Now we have points (a) and (b) again. First (a) i.e. Proposal for a decision on the discharge of part of the members of the Governing Council of the Croatian News Agency and (b) Proposal for a decision to appoint part of the members of the Governing Council of the Croatian Reporting News Agency. The Proposer is the Government. The debate is closed. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on Croatia's reporting news agency on each proposed member of the Governing Council of HINA shall be voted individually. First, we will vote on the resolution of part of the members of the Governing Council of HINA. First I am voting on the motion to resolve Slavica Cvitanic. Please, let's vote. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? 121 MPs and MPs voted, 77 for, 44 abstentions, and a decision was made as proposed by the government of the Republic of Croatia. I am voting on the motion for a decision to resolve Bruno Dobronic. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? 119 voted in favour of MPs and MPs, 77 for, 42 abstentions, and a decision was made here as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Third, I am voting on a motion for a decision to resolve Maya Pleskelt. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He voted 121 MPs and MPs, 77 for, 44 against, and this decision was taken as proposed by the government of the Republic of Croatia. And fourthly, I am voting the motion for a decision on the resolution of Romana Bogut. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 119 MPs and MPs, 76 for, 43 abstentions. A decision has been made as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. We now move on to the appointment of members of the Governing Council of HINA. First, I am voting on the proposal for a decision to appoint Andrej Matijasevic. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? He voted 121 MPs and MPs, 77 for, 44 abstentions, and a decision was made as proposed by the government of the Republic of Croatia. Second, I am voting on the motion for a decision to appoint Slavko Kozina. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 121 MPs and MPs, 76 for, 45 abstentions, have voted, and a decision has been made as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Third, I am voting on a motion for a decision to appoint Bozidar Djerek. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 119 MPs and MPs voted, 77 for, 42 abstentions, and here a decision has been made as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And lastly, I am voting on the proposal for a decision to appoint Suzanne Grubesic. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? 119 MPs and MPs voted, 76 for, 43 abstentions, so we also made a decision here as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Finally, I congratulate all the newly appointed members of the HINA Governance Council.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u49389	Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Capital Market Act, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 140. The motion is Government, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: "1.A proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Capital Market Act and 2. All objections and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when determining the text of the final draft law." Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? 112 MPs and MPs voted, all in favour, and thus concluded that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u49470	Now let's go to the point that has A and B, first and second. First A) Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of members of the Management Board of the Croatian Foundation for Science and Under B) Proposal for a Decision appointing members of the Management Board of the Croatian Foundation for Science. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. So first, I am voting on the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of members of the Management Board of the Croatian Foundation for Science. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 119 MPs and MPs voted, 118 were in favour and 1 was abstentioned, so a decision was taken as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And second, I am voting on the Proposal for a Decision appointing members of the Management Board of the Croatian Foundation for Science. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? It voted 120 MPs and MPs, 77 for, 31 abstention and 12 against, and thus a decision was taken as proposed by the government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u49626	Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law establishing the Agency for Hydrocarbons, first reading, P.Z. Number 142. The motion is Government, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. First, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law establishing the Agency for Hydrocarbons and other all objections and proposals will be submitted to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 122 MPs and MPs, 76 for, 45 abstentions and 1 against, have voted, and thus the conclusion has been reached as proposed by the parliamentary working bodies. Report on the work of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals for 2020 The applicant shall be the Board of Representatives and Appeals. The debate is closed. I am voting on the following conclusion: A report on the work of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals for 2020 is hereby adopted. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 117 MPs and MPs voted, 116 for and one abstention and thus accepted the report in the text of the applicants.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u49893	Now let's go A and B again. A) Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of a member of the Governing Council of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency, I know, I know and B) Proposal for a Decision appointing a member of the Governing Council of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency. The motion is Government, the debate is closed. Before the vote, she called for a break from her respected colleague, Mrak Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u49894	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. I ask for a break on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Club, so we in Croatia have laws and we have different application of these laws and different interpretations of these laws, and the main person who interprets it is Prime Minister Plenkovic. So we had an example when it came to the appointment of the President or President of the Supreme Court, that Mr Plenkovic said our prime minister couldn't possibly do it because the purpose of respecting the law is parallel to that we have a case of resolution and appointment of a member of the HERE Board. What's this about? Therefore, a member of the Governing Council shall be appointed for 7 years. The seven years have passed in an instant, and here's the ministry's resolute thought of no time to call a new member, but it was too late. Then also on April 22nd, the government decided to resolve a member with November 15th, so on April 22nd with November 15th, it gave a list of people who might also be on the Committee on Economy that should be discussed we didn't even have a chance to discuss, we didn't even have a chance to warn or have a chance to hear who the new candidates were, but was to take or leave the package. So if we want to obey the laws, and we need to respect them, and that is what we have sworn in this high house, then we should always do so. It is unacceptable for the government to resolve someone with November 15 with the 22nd of April and not see this absolutely no problem. It is unacceptable that we on the board do not have the opportunity to discuss or hear who they are but also take it or leave it. Someone may be a parliamentary representative that he's a handlifter and he's a nod, someone can't be. So consider what kind of parliamentary representatives you are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u49895	Is anyone else picking up? If not, Article 293b, we'll go to the vote immediately. First, I am voting on the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of a member of the Governing Council of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? 123 MPs and MPs voted, 78 for, 2 abstentions, 43 against, so a decision was made as proposed by the government of the Republic of Croatia. Secondly, I am voting on the Proposal for a Decision appointing a member of the Governing Council of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency. Who's in? Who's restrained? Who's against it? 121 MPs and MPs voted, 76 for, 45 against, and thus a decision was taken as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u50375	Proposal to launch a trust issue with William Beros, Minister of Health in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The promoter is 41 MPs and a representative in HS. The debate is closed. I see there's a request for a break. First came the honorary colleague Selak Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u50376	I'm going to be sarcastic, so I'm going to start by saying that we're aware that kids can't just be taken away by superheroes, but at the outset, we need to tell the facts. The basic fact is that in this battle with the Crown we have failed, the figures are inexorable, at the rate of mortality on the world level we are at the very top, we are 15. Someone has to answer for that. When the question was asked to our prime minister yesterday, he replied that 8,000 of our dead citizens did not die of the crown but with the crown. So, after a year just from the Minister and the Civil Protection Staff, we are convinced that people are dying massively from the crown, which culminated in the fact that a mother had to publicly complain through the media at the Split hospital that her child did not die of the crown and did not get an apology from the authorities, we suddenly find out that people do not die of the crown but die with the crown. The minister failed. The answer to that was that only now are the procedures for examining who died of what. Does the Croatian public know anything about it? Does the Croatian public know anything about how it is possible that only one dose of vaccine is needed now in order to travel freely, has the Minister of Health informed us or left everything in the hands of the Minister of the Interior who suddenly became an epidemiological expert? Minister Beros, Prime Minister Plenkovic did not preserve you, he only demonstrated his vanity, and will resolve you himself during the first bandage.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u50377	Thank you. The apartment will be approved. The second is the esteemed colleague Daniel Spajic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u50378	Thank you, Chairman. Here I am looking for a break on behalf of the Home Movement Club because we have come to new knowledge, which is that the Ministry of Health refuses to show the Agreements on the Processing of Personal Data which it claims to have been concluded with the companies "Erikson", "IN2" and "Cuspis" for the "VpiSe" platform. It is clear to all of us that “Cuspis” everything he does is wrong, but he regularly receives tenders from the Ministry of Health, so I am now interested in what is being fixed, and what “Cuspis” has managed to do, and does not work, does Minister Beros know that this additional money from the Ministry of Health will have to be allocated for these things where the money is likely to be taken by Ericson and the company “IN2”. They know that in Croatia they can do what they do because Croatia is a fertile soil for corruption but it would never occur to them to do so in their home countries where they come from. So again there will be new expenses for the Ministry of Health and this way again I call on Minister Beros to resign himself, here's what he's doing is not normal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u50379	The apartment will be approved. Now it's your honorary colleague, Peja Grbin, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u50380	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, I request a recess. The reason for that is, of course, the vote ahead of us. Voting on the trust of the Minister of Health in the Government of the Republic of Croatia to Mr. Willy Beros. In orderly states, let's call them normal states when hospitals run out of drugs that's the moment the minister leaves alone. In orderly states, when it is discovered that the minister is in a relationship with his colleagues, with his friends, with people with whom he has been associated, with work over the line, with work over the link, that is the moment the minister leaves himself. In also arranged and normal countries where vaccination is not working, when data from the Vaccination System is being vaccinated, a system for making which the minister has just given his colleagues a job, to lose information from this system, not to know who is being vaccinated, that it is not recorded, that people who are vaccinated cannot get Covid's passport, the minister himself resigns. All three situations occurred in Croatia. The minister not to resign, the party behind him defends him further. Defend him to the last one. And during the debate on confidence about the minister, she did not give a single answer as to how the situation would take place. Today we learn that the number of vaccinated, newly vaccinated falls, and we have absolutely no strategy as now that the vaccine is finally there, the vaccination is promoted among people. This shows another failure, another failure by the minister and the government headed by Andrej Plenkovic. People who work in the health system in the crown did a great job, those who run the health care system. No, no, no. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u50381	Stanka has been approved, so now it's time for a respected colleague, Zeljko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u50382	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So I ask you on behalf of the HDZ Club to talk a little bit about how the main party that raised the issue is hypocritical. Hypocrisy because he dares to talk about certain things, and they themselves had a minister who bought a table for 90,000 kuna at a time when he was not under quotes of money to pay to doctors and sisters, nor did they have an increase in salaries, so they had the biggest strikes of doctors and sisters in the history of the Croatian state, when they had a minister who hired private detectives to check that information from meetings in HZZO came to people who were not on them, when they had a minister who when declared the best sister spoke at least inappropriate statements about sisters and their appearance, etc., unlike the current government found no money for increased healthcare workers, the current government increased salaries to healthcare professionals. It's not enough either, of course it would be good to be much more, but it increased. She ruled in peace without any crown, without any earthquakes she could not find enough to increase her wages to sisters, doctors over whom she now dives tears and as they are deeply concerned about it. And if we want to compare some money, then, for example, in 2004, 2014 during the SDP government for particularly expensive medicines spent 630 million kuna. This government in pandemic 2020 singled out 350% higher for especially expensive medicines [[Intruder: Thank you.]] So we talk about it. [[Intruder: Thank you, colleague Reiner.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u50383	Thank you very much. The break is approved. And the last person to answer for a break is a respected colleague, Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u50384	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues, I request a 10 minute break from the Club of Croatian Sovereigns. The Corona crisis has found the whole world and will justify their good dealings with the crisis, the opposition will find a 1001 flaw that is very obvious. However, one thing is quite explicit, in all developed democracies, Western democracies that we see ourselves as, respected, respected the decisions of the judicial authority. I am here specifically referring to the Constitutional Court's decision, which the continued Minister Beros or the ministry has ignored. So, since 2017, there has been a decision of the Constitutional Court, even a committee in the ministry that should have passed one law, you know what law it is. However, it is constantly ignored, if there is a reason for Mr Beros' resignation, then that is exactly why he is not subjective but very objective, because I will repeat 4 years and 3, 4 months of the ministry and this home, so the legislature has an obligation to pass a law that Minister Beros did not put in the procedure, did not make him, and we do not have him here at the vote. So, the coronary crisis I said can be viewed from various angles, but this can only be seen from one angle, and that is disrespecting the decision of the judicial authority.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u50385	Thank you. Is anyone else picking up? If not, I will apply Article 293b. so we will immediately proceed with the work and comply with Article 252. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament for a decision to show no confidence to a member of the government require a half-dozen majority of all MPs, i.e. 76 votes in favour. I am voting on the decision to show no confidence to Willy Beros, Minister of Health in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? 133 MPs and deputies voted, 57 were in favour, 1 abstention and 75 against and thus no decision on the non-confidential statement of confidence was made to William Berosh, Minister of Health in the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u50386	Good morning, we continue today with the work - The report on the work of the State Audit Office for 2020 is submitted by the Chief State Auditor on the basis of Article 24. The State Audit Office Act. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. The government delivered an opinion. Does the applicant want to further explain the report? Dear Chief State Auditor Ivan Klešić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u50387	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed MPs and MPs, in accordance with the provisions of the Law on the State Audit Office of the Croatian Parliament, a report on the work of the State Audit Office for 2020 was delivered. The tasks of the Office, the types of audit, the entities and the subject-matter of the audit have been established on the Law on the State Audit Office, the Strategic Plan for 2018 to 2022 and the Programme and the Work Plan for 2020. In 2020, all entities covered by the Law on the State Office for Audit and the Law on the financing of political activities, election promotions and referendums were prescribed to carry out the audit each year, which are annual reports on the implementation and revision of the annual report on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia and of the political party and independent representatives. All other audits are planned on the basis of the law of the prescribed criteria, which are the risk assessment, the financial significance of the audit entity, the results of the previous audit, the information collected on the business of the audit entity and other criteria to be established by the internal act of the State Audit Office. The number of audit entities is determined among other things and based on the number of audit teams available. According to the 2020 programme and work plan, 216 financial audits, 46 efficiency audits and 3 compliance audits were planned. As we know in 2020, it was a very specific year, marked by earthquakes, pandemics, and so the office’s operations took place in an unusual way. In accordance with the civil protection headquarters measures, work from home has been organised, and the departure of state auditors to audit entities is limited. Despite these circumstances, office employees have carried out all the prescribed obligations within the deadlines. During this reporting period, 185 audits were carried out, of which 160 relate to financial, 25 to efficiency audits, and the report on the audits carried out in 2020 were completed in 2021 to be delivered to the Croatian Assembly in mid-year. The audits were carried out in accordance with the Law on the State Audit Office, International Standards of the Supreme Audit Institutions and the Code of Professional Ethics of the Work of State Auditors. All reports of the audits carried out were delivered to the Croatian Assembly and published on the website of our office. The financial audits shall cover documents and documents of the internal control system report, accounting and financial and other procedures and other records in order to express their opinion on whether the annual financial reports are true and credible, and the operations shall comply with the regulations and internal acts of the audit entity. In 2020 we carried out a financial audit of the state budget and 16 users of the state budget, 63 local units and 7 budget users of local units, 20 state-owned companies and the ownership of local units, 44 political parties and 6 independent representatives and 3 other non-profit organisations. In addition to the state budget, the entities covered by the financial audit realised revenue and revenue of 16 billion 450 million 450 thousand 983 kuna expenditure and expenditure of 15 etc. and the value of the assets of these entities amounted to 107 billion 806 million 891 million and 003 kuna. The most frequent irregularities and failures in these entities identified by auditors in the accounting business of 80 entities, in the execution of expenditure of 54 entities, in the income of 33 entities, in the conduct of public procurement procedures of 43 entities and in the planning of 24 entities. For identified irregularities and failures, 1359 orders and recommendations have been given to the entities in order to eliminate irregularities or to take action so as not to repeat irregularities. The audit entities are given 2 opinions, the opinion on financial reports and the second opinion is an opinion on the compliance of business. Thus, the financial reports for 160 subjects are expressed in 78 unconditional and 82 conditional opinions, and on the compliance of business 83 unconditional and 75 conditional opinions, for 2 entities only opinions on financial reports are expressed, i.e. the state budget and Croatian water. The performance audit covers the following topics, the sale of shares and business shares in state-owned companies, the management of interventions in sudden pollution in the Adriatic Sea, the management of the waiting list for magnetic resonance procedures and the readiness of the Republic of Croatia to implement the Sustainable Development Goals under the Sustainable Development Programme by 2030. In performance audits, it has been assessed whether audit entities have implemented programmes, projects and activities in accordance with the principles of economic, efficiency and purpose. For the 12 subjects covered by the performance audits, the evaluation is effective, requiring certain improvements and 16 partially effective. These entities are subject to 264 recommendations under which they are required to comply with the plan for implementing the recommendations. In addition, the State Audit Office has checked whether the audit entities have acted according to the findings and recommendations we gave them in the previous audits. So we're in 2020. found that out of the 954 orders and recommendations given to the entities in the previous audits 64% were implemented, 15.9% were partially implemented or implemented in the implementation process, and 14.4% were not implemented, while the smaller number of orders and recommendations is 5.7% no longer variable due to changes to legal regulations. The results of all these audits are more detailed in the individual reports of the published audit, the pooled reports drawn up according to the groups of entities and the Annual Work Report. In accordance with the Law on the State Audit Office for all those entities that did not comply with our orders and recommendations as well as for those other than the State Audit Office within the legal time limit, we submitted a plan of order and we have notified the State Attorney's Office of course, that is our legal obligation. In addition to the audit operations of the annual programme and the work plan for 2020, cooperation operations with judicial and other bodies and international cooperation and public relations affairs have been planned. As regards cooperation with judicial and other bodies, this cooperation shall include the exchange of documents and reports, answers to any requests, clarifications and other information at the office's disposal and participation in organised meetings in relation to the subject-matter of the audit. During this reporting period, reports of documentation and further clarifications were submitted to other state bodies for 23 entities. All reports on audits carried out and additional clarifications and documentation for 104 audit entities have been submitted to the State's attorney, and notices for 19 non-office entities, orders for 22 entities which failed to carry out the tasks and recommendations in the deadlines set out in the implementation plan of the mandates and recommendations as well as for 30 political parties and three independent representatives in which infringements of the Law on the financing of political activities and election promotions and referendums have been established. The international cooperation carried out by the office with other top audit institutions is also important in order to exchange knowledge and experience. As a member of the international organisation of the top audit institutions IntoSAI and its regional organisations EUROSAI, the State Audit Office actively participates in international conventions, conferences, seminars and workshops and in the work of different professional committees and working groups in order to bring work methodology into line with international standards and to monitor modern trends in the development of the audit profession in the world. This continued participation in the work of the EUROSAI Working Group on Audit and Ethics and the Municipal Audit Working Group. At the call of the European Court of Auditors, the Office of the State Audit Office of Poland made an insight into the ethical framework of the European Court of Auditors and in early 2020. in Luxembourg, presented the results of the insights to the members of the European Court of Auditors. I think it's a big confession to our office. A parallel audit has been carried out with the top audit institutions of Bulgaria, Latvia, Hungary, Slovakia and a parallel audit with the top audit institutions of Albania, BiH, Montenegro, Italy and Slovenia, which are co-ordinated by the office. The office also continued to participate in the work of NATO's group of competent national audit bodies. In addition, the State Audit Office has started as a leading partner in cooperation with the State Audit Office of Bulgaria, implementing the Twinning project at the State Audit Office of the Republic of Northern Macedonia, the theme is the State Audit Relations and Parliament. In order to increase transparency, the Office shall communicate with all interested public, meaning HS, DORH, MUP, Ministry of Finance, courts and other bodies of the state authority and audit entities, representatives of the media and the general public through networks, e-mails, press conferences, communications and statements, and answers to legal and natural persons' questions. In 2020, the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) 2015/35 on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Union and the European Union and the Swiss Confederation on the Swiss Confederation's association with the European Economic Community, the European Union and the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Confederation and the Swiss Confederation, In the media, 494 office posts are published, of which 96% are positive. Otherwise, I just wanted to inform you that before each reporting period, we hold a meeting with the media to which we make calls and who come to us, and then they can ask all questions about individual audits. In accordance with the provisions of the Law on the State Audit Office as an integral part of the annual work report, the State Audit Office provided an independent auditor’s report on the financial reports of the Office for 2020. We still suggested it there 10 years ago. on the Committee on Finance and Budget and asked HS to secure funds so that we can discuss the tender and determine an independent auditor who would review and revise our financial reports. We are glad that it was accepted, last year and this year it is the second time, it is also a contribution to the annual work report. The total office income was 63 million 107 thousand 957 kuna, with expenditures of 62 million 708 thousand 390 kuna, while the surplus, the surplus income at the end of 2020 amounted to 399 thousand 559 kuna. The value of the assets or liabilities from their own sources was 70 million 615 thousand and 501 kuna. In the view of the independent auditor, the financial statements in all the relevant specifics show the financial position of the office on 31 December 2020 and the financial success of meeting the specific objectives of the business. I would also like to stress that the special challenge for the State Audit Office is to maintain, maintain the number of employees or employ new employees. We thank the Government of the Republic of Croatia for providing us with funding in the budget for hiring new people, given that we have one shift of generations and big problems in that part, so these days we are in the middle of a tender for hiring new people. At the end of 2020 of 370 systematised jobs in the office were filled 288 of which are 229 state auditors. During 2020, 16 employees left the office, of which 7 retired, and nine employees were employed through the transfer. In employment, we face difficulties because it is difficult to get professional and experienced persons who are willing to perform very complex and responsible tasks that are expected from state auditors. The Office shall endeavour to ensure, by continuous education of the national auditors, the preconditions for successful audits as the main tasks of the office. I would still like to conclude that they are in 2020. There have been extensive preparations at the organisation and realization of the damage caused by the earthquake in the business buildings of the offices in Zagreb, Bogovicev and Tkalčić street. In view of the increase in the scope of the transactions stemming from the new Law on the State Audit Office, this is the CNB, which means, then, notifying entities which do not carry out the tasks and recommendations of the State Audit Office. Of course the range of jobs is bigger, and the auditor is getting smaller, so hopefully we'll hire them at least because we'll still get younger people, that'll be a problem while they're being educated, but that's the situation. Therefore, in order to increase the volume of work arising from the new law, the office needs to increase capacity, which means the number of employees, but also business spaces. Therefore, it is in June 2020. The office won the use of a business building in Zagreb, which is state-owned, in which, among other things, it plans to accommodate an education centre, it was only part of the office of reconstruction and the building adaptation will be financed from the EU funds and partly from the state budget. Dear MPs and MPs, thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u50388	Here are 15 replicas, as reported to me by the record table, the first distinguished representative of the Rose Wolf, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u50389	Thank you. Dear Chief State Auditor, therefore, your report shows that out of 15.917 orders and recommendations, either partially or in the implementation process 65.2% of orders and recommendations, 33.9% of orders and recommendations have not been followed, in particular 5.390 recommendations, and I am interested in what your opinion should be, should the Office for State Audit be strengthened, or what is the solution for disobedience? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u50390	Dear MPs, that's a very good question. I'll try to answer you now as soon as I can. On average, between 2009 and 2019, 65.2% were treated, while, for example, according to the annual annual annual work report for 2019. 79.4%, and according to this report 85.7%. So what you asked me is a very good question. I would say that we need to strengthen capacities, we are aware of that because we simply are not able to do it all, but what is very important is still a positive trend. As you've seen, so the number is growing positive for the implementation of the warrant and the recommendation is that it's growing, and it's up to 87.5 percent, which means that the number of irregularities and failures is going down, so that's a positive trend. Of course what you said is true and we stick to it, we'll certainly increase the capacity in that part, and that I'm sure we'll get absolutely in line. I think it's also a positive effect of our new law.../Time/...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u50391	Time's up. We have another replica, distinguished representative Dragana Jeckov.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u50392	Thank you. In 2020, you told the chief state auditor you left the office 16 employees, 7 of them retired, and 9 employees were employed through the transfer, of which 2 state auditors and 7 senior state auditors. It's almost a quarter of the jobs in your office. Tell me what you're thinking of doing to make these jobs more attractive to make it easier to fill them with professional personnel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u50393	Thank you very much, ma'am, I'd like to say a crucial question because I've been saying that in this place for a few years. Our problem, the problem at the State Office is only one, these are the salaries of authorised state auditors. It's an extremely difficult job, a job that whoever was doing in the audit, I know that's how a representative deals with commercial audits, it's one hard job, and few of these are huge denials I'd say mining work, and wages are small. I'll just tell you that by 2000, auditors had more salaries than anyone else in the state service. Not to tell you now about colleagues of Hungary, Austria, etc., auditors have the highest salary, we do not have such a case. And that's why people, young people don't want to come. I hope you're satisfied with the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u50394	The next replica is the esteemed representative Andreja Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u50395	Thank you very much. Dear Chief State Auditors, concerning the revision of waiting lists for magnetic resonance procedures, we received a more detailed report on the Health Committee and it could be seen that, for example, one KBC had been audited for 10.5 months. So it's really one big job, we've seen 232 recommendations given, 7 health institutions effectively manage, there are certain improvements, 13 have been partially effective with significant mistakes. But we have this big problem, in order to put together waiting lists should be at least one basic prerequisite, which is the BIS, means the information system. Unfortunately, there is still one significant part of the health care facilities that do not even have it here are some clinics or KBCs, Split reportedly only recently received it. So, this is one problem that you don't know how much you can influence, we can, of course, talk to the Health Committee about, force the ministry, and then let the ministry force the health institutions to finally join in, I say on that basis that they might even agree to waiting lists at all. What else would you recommend? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u50396	.../Speaker fee included./... Audit therefore manages waiting lists for magnetic resonance procedures and I would say one revision which is an example of how we work in the office. That was one of the most common demands from you Parliamentarians before I think of those in the former meeting who just asked for that revision. So we're, uh, we're analyzing it and we've seen that it needs to be done. As far as this revision is concerned, the subject of the review was activities in the Ministry of Health, HZZO, I have little time, and 20 health institutions that had magnetic resonance devices at the end of 2018 and of course there was a problem with keeping the waiting list and managing waiting lists. What, if I didn't list all the irregularities that we've identified in the full report you can see, what's very important I would say what we've identified, and that's what we're thinking, is that the implementation of the recommendations that the auditors made has made improvements with regard to keeping waiting lists, and what's very important needs insurance, should ensure equal treatment. patients in access to medical services which was not the case. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u50397	The next replica is the esteemed representative Ivan Kirin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u50398	Dear Vice President, Mr. Klešić, with his co-workers from your lecture, it is clear that the State Audit Office is aimed at good governance in the public sector, transparency of public responsibility and action in the interests of citizens. Please, since you are working with the top audit institutions of some other countries, what is the state of audit of the same or similar entities in those countries and how successful the same institutions in those countries are in detecting fraud and corruption because this phenomenon is present in all countries to a lesser or greater extent because public perception is that elsewhere they are all just and I think it is far from the truth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u50399	Your Honor, I thank you very much for your question. You've said very well, they've only told you one piece of information that at EU level it disappears annually by corruption of around € 120 billion, € 120 billion. As for the State Audit Office, so we're not, we don't have these legal powers that we can fight corruption directly, but we can indirectly carry out our audits detecting irregularities, delivering to the State's Attorney's office, trying to fight corruption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u50400	The next replica is the esteemed representative Branko Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u50401	Thank you very much, Vice President. The respected main state auditors, among other things, said in your presentation, and the report said that an audit of over 44 political parties was carried out, including HDZ, also had control over your state-level conditions and established an unconditional opinion for 2020 as well as an earlier year on financial reporting and compliance of business. Since HDZ is often referred to as ugly names and calls into question the way in which it is done, I ask you to say more for the sake of Croatian citizens what it is, what kind of surveillance it was and what it was and what compliance it was with all the rules of business of the HDZ and on financial reporting and all together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u50402	Thank you very much for your question. Therefore, the criteria for reviewing political parties have reached revenue of more than 100,000 kuna. As for political parties, HDZ and SDP parties achieved the most significant total revenues in 2019 or 59.4% of total revenues. The HDZ and SDP as major parties received unconditional opinion on both the financial report and the compliance of business. 4 parties received a conditional opinion, these are the Block and pensioners together, Independent for Croatia, Smart and Living Wall. As for your party, what you said, you know, we've been doing a review of political parties since 2007 and all these years, so that first year 2010, 2011 and 2012. HDZ received a conditional opinion, but it was then, it was a time when the system was absolutely not arranged it was a fact in 2013, until today until 2020. So seven, eight years your party has received unconditional opinion on both the financial report and the compliance of business.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u50403	Time. I have a breach of my rules of procedure, a distinguished representative of Zeljko Pavić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u50404	Dear state auditors. I'm glad you responded that way, but I have to draw attention to both the honourable representative and everyone else that the question is a little bit trendy because the revision controls only what is shown, what is shown in the books. But what was worn in the suitcases didn't show up, it wasn't about doing a review.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u50405	So this wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you've misused a breach of your rules of procedure and you're being warned. The next replica is the distinguished representative Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u50406	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Vice President, Mr. Klesic. Since you are doing a huge job, you also have insight into financial audits, as well as efficiency audits, say, given the great experience and great knowledge, what do you expect as major challenges that will be reflected in the functioning of both the state budget and the other users in the future?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u50407	Dear MPs, thank you very much for asking. So, to review the annual report on the implementation of the state budget is our legal obligation to carry out and deliver to HS every year. As for this part of what you mentioned, I would mention perhaps three areas, the first area to turn to are facts or phenomena that could pose a challenge to the state budget in the coming years. The first is the financial sustainability of the health system, that's number one, that's our opinion where we've been warning it for years. That's not the problem from today, from a year ago, for years. Through our audits, we have indicated the need to implement appropriate reforms of the health system in order to achieve a rationalisation of business and financial sustainability of the system. Furthermore, the next thing that is very important is, I don't have time to talk as fast as I can, one of the important areas is also the use of EU funds, which is very important to withdraw as much funding as possible for strategic development and reform projects. And the third thing is also very important, and very current, that we have the EU Solidarity Fund's resources to restore the earthquake of damaged areas which must be withdrawn within 18 months, and very little time we have. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u50408	Next replica, distinguished representative Boris Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u50409	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Chief State Auditor. They ended the elections now on Sunday, what we see in all the portals means everyone who has come to take over the new government all they ask for, ask for in the audit, ask for in the budget, during the handover of the authorities. So what we can expect is a strong pressure on the State Audit Office to carry out all these audits. You were talking today about a small number of people, really and inadequate incomes for those people. So here's my question for you, and for the public and for all those who take over with the local elections now, is there something you must do legally, meaning that new local elections and new requirements for review have now come? Now, since these new mayors, the mayors are actually expecting some kind of answer from you, so I ask the question, how can we help you solve this problem here, and how do you even think about serving all these mayors and mayors in the exercise of power? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u50410	Thank you, Mr. Lalovec, for this matter. As former finance minister, we've always worked very well together, the answer will be very brief. So in the Republic of Croatia we have 576 units of local self-government with 240 teams that we have on each team, for example. Three people, I don't have much of an answer to how to implement it. And we can do it on one condition, do just that and do two things that we must do by law, which is binding on our law, that is the Annual Report on the Implementation of the State Budget, the revision of the annual report and other political parties we must do so. And this other one we can do, but if that's all we do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u50411	The next replica is the distinguished representative of Rada Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u50412	Dear Mr. State Auditor. In part, you answered the question of colleague Jeckov, but I would really like to remind you, and it is certainly about filling up the jobs that so already in '19 it is said that of the systematicized 370 was 291, so 21.4% that is almost a quarter, but in the '20s we heard you were talking about the shift of generations, you were talking about inadequate wages, but what really worries is that in this year, regardless of the departure of people in retirement and relocating and getting to know that now is an even greater percentage of 22.4%. What concerns, and we know that the largest number refers to authorised state auditors, what concerns us, and we don't know about 6,000 bodies of public authority, what my question is is whether someone is in the interest of being so sub-disciplined an office because it can't happen if we know it's last year, and you have systematicized jobs, whose Is that call here to solve it in a different way? [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u50413	Honorable MPs. A very good question, and I'm going to answer it very simply, to this contest that was called yesterday only 17 auditors came to us, and we need 20, just 17. Of those 17 questions at the test yesterday at the Faculty of Economics how many will ever pass the test, it might just be five, that's the answer to that question. Solutions are wages, no one's going to do this job for these salaries that auditors have, that's the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u50414	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u50415	Thank you very much. The Honorable Vice President of HS, the Honorable State Auditor. So, you already have one long-term review experience, we get them every year, we discuss them, we point to some things. In answer to one question, you said that you were satisfied that in those recommendations that you make, the percentage is improving, which means that every year it's still better. I'm wondering if there are still some systemic errors that are repeated, whether these systemic errors that you've seen whether there's a cause for failure, whether there's a reason for new people, so you have a problem, whether there are some laws that we need to change, or if you can also say in the recommendations that there are some laws and some rules and some other things that we need to do. So you have a good insight and good experience because that's where you showed from 2009 to 2019. So I'm wondering if there's still some kind of malfunction in the repeat system? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u50416	Errors always exist, always exist, we point to them both in the findings and recommendations we insist on these mistakes of the ID. Amendment of the law or the adoption of a new Law on the State Audit Office in March 2019, that Article. In 35, it was extremely significant, it was those infringing, infringing provisions where fines are also fined by those who do not carry out the tasks and recommendations of state auditors. Therefore this data of 85.7% carried out or in the procedure of carrying out the order and recommendations... He's just saying that things are getting better. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u50417	The next replica, distinguished representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u50418	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President HS, Mr. State Auditor. So the role and prevention of the detection of corruption fraud is your basic task that you do correctly and well. However, there are opportunities and moments in which it is seen that your role should be strengthened, where the work of the State Audit Office should be strengthened with new sophisticated tools, as well as methods, because there are today opportunities seen in certain spendings of public money that are difficult to spot, and therefore you, together with them, regardless of the standards you use international audit houses strongest and best, but it has been observed that there is nevertheless the possibility of sophisticated fraud and corruption that you can't discover either. It is therefore necessary to take a step further in your action.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u50419	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u50420	Well, there you go, Mr. Representative, very briefly. The State Audit Office is not a repressive body, nor do we have the legal authority to search the premises and make informed conversations with people. We don't have those powers. We don't have a government audit. We don't even have a bag to look at. We don't have one. Therefore, there are other control mechanisms that every state has, that is, the MUP, the PNUSKOK, the USCOK, the State's Attorney's Office, budgetary supervision, the State Inspectorate, etc., so each of our colleagues needs to do their part of the job.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u50421	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Vesna Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u50422	Thank you. Dear Chief State Auditor, no matter how much you say things go better, it still worries the lack of accountability of the audit entities to your recommendations, so some are partially executed, and some are not doing it at all, and then you have to send a request to the state's attorney to, to do something about it. Now, do you actually have information that the state's attorney's office has taken, and do you think that's enough given this large number of percentages that haven't been implemented, right? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u50423	Here's a lot of work I'll answer your question. Namely, the State's Attorney's Office is an independent institution and is not obliged to inform us of what it has done according to the cases that we have provided them. But just these days we got a notice from them, but only about the political parties where they, where they launched some 23, so they filed charges against those persons and parties that we reported to them. But just as far as political parties are concerned, we can't even look for them, they did it themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u50424	The next replica, the esteemed representative of Zvonimir Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u50425	Dear Chief State Auditor, first of all, I would like to congratulate you along with your team on this hard work you've done in the last year, as shown in the report itself. So there's now even more rich information to analyze. I have one specific question, I thought I'd ask you a health care question, but something else fell into my eye. So, on the one hand, I see in your reports on page 55, so the problems with selling shares of business in Croatian roads, I think it is page 55, and on the other hand Croatian road d.o.o. The largest recipients were at least EU funds from 2014 to 2020 in the Republic of Croatia's Strategy. Do you see the failures there, so in the audits while you were in that company for the reason that and do you see what the willingness of such a state-owned company is, to receive such large sums of money, and on the other hand, that the company is prepared as such without irregularities and corruption, etc., within the company itself, here?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u50426	Yes, at the state level, the bodies in charge of fighting corruption have been formed. Of course it's those bodies that monitor these things, so it's huge resources. Since we don't have the authority to do things like this that we mentioned here, so we can only audit efficiency and financial audits and that's it. As far as the health system is concerned, you also mentioned, as far as the health system is concerned, we gave one of our little pains, which is precisely through this management of waiting lists for magnetic resonance procedures. These waiting lists were often the subject of a request by parliamentary representatives in that previous assembly because this one is very short. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u50427	The next replica, distinguished representative Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u50428	Dear Chief Auditor, you seem to have misunderstood me, I said you can't do a revision of what you're doing, I said you can't do a revision of what's not in the books, so let's be clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u50429	I'm sorry, everything's fine, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u50430	This one, I'd just like to turn around or ask you a question and try to answer something for me. It's about local self-government and JLS-owned companies. In fact, we read almost daily about some major or smaller affairs that are written about in newspapers, portals, which are related to state-owned companies, ministries, and that is true later on. However, what our citizens see directly is the functioning of local self-government and companies owned by local self-government. We all know there are irregularities out there, we know how these data are shown there in the books, you determine what you find, and even some, and you determine irregularities. But what happens to those local leaders and the leaders of those public companies who do nothing on your recommendations?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u50431	Thank you very much for asking, so the answer is very simple. We do audit work, we deliver to the State's Attorney's office what we've determined with the accompanying documentation that proves it. It's still all in the State's Attorney's office to initiate proceedings, to file charges or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u50432	Next replica, distinguished representative Željko Sacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u50433	Dear Chief State Auditors, we have already had the opportunity to communicate your work here several times, your service reports that you represent, of course, to give recognition to these hardworking, hardworking people who care, to respect the fundamental values of this society. In all that colleagues and colleagues have said, we give you full support to strengthen yourself as a human being, it is no problem to go to Prime Minister Plenkovic and Ministers and say that you have the unison support of this house to raise salaries and all other benefits to attract people professionally to care for our public money. These are priorities. On the other hand, I'm happy to have you with the State's Attorney's Office of Communications, have you seen 104 reports and notices and it's going on, of course we expect a lot more, but just tell me how you're setting priorities on whether you have any influence on the media, investigative journalism somewhere to discover a certain affair about spending or a scandal in spending public money, how you set yourself up here, whether you're going there, what, which is yours? the selection of certain of these audit entities. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u50434	Dear Representative Sacic, thank you very much for asking. So it's very simple. We have a criterion that serves us in drawing up an annual work plan for the office. One of these criteria is exactly the one you mentioned, so we're tracking the media and we're seeing what's going on and everything that's very problematic we're putting into play, and that's that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u50435	The next replica, the last, distinguished representative of Martina Grmat Kizivat.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u50436	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear state auditors, for someone to become an authorised state auditor means that, in addition to a graduate university, they must have a certain number of job internships, they must have spent a number of years of education, so everyone here mentioned that they were controversial salaries. Can you tell how much the average salary of an authorised auditor is when it means becoming an authorised auditor when the year of work and education goes by, if it's no problem I think you're doing it once, so if you can do it again, compare your salary as authorized means the main state auditor to another head of another institution because I know that your salary is very low, and the job you're doing is huge. And can you tell us as representatives whether there's a way for us to help these salaries to still be higher in a way that the scope of the work you do and the knowledge you must have must be adequately paid and there's no reason not to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u50437	Thank you, dear MPs, for this matter. So when the auditors pass the exam for an authorised state auditor, it's like in the judiciary when they pass the judicial exam they have about 7,7,000 kuna, if the senior auditor may be up to 9,000 kuna, chiefs of the 12,000 kuna, assistants of 15,000 kuna. I'll tell you this only in one Hungarian state auditors have far away, they have higher salaries, for example. than the employees of their central bank, and the governor has a higher salary than I have three times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u50438	Thank you, Chief State Auditor. We're going to a club debate right now. You can sit in your seat. The first is the SDSS Representatives' Club, the distinguished representative Dragana Jeckov.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u50439	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear main state auditors with their associates, respected colleagues and colleagues, therefore the report on the work of the State Audit Office for 2020 and as this has already become a form of practice, the report of this state office is extensive, comprehensive and exhaustive. And what's most important is he's very systematic so it's so easy to track him even to us who aren't professional in this area. The report shall contain, at the outset, interesting ten-year data from 2009 to 2019 on the number of audits carried out and the order and recommendation for previous audits. These warrants and recommendations were nearly 16,000, and last year they were 1.359. What is certainly worrying is that even a third of the warrants and recommendations were not followed during the ten - year period mentioned. It should come to the right reason why individual entities do not comply with orders and recommendations, and certainly identify who these relapsers are. For this reason, it is necessary to mention the co-operation of this state office with other state authorities, which maintains the independence and independence of this body. In this context, the office co-operated with the DORH, which provides all reports on the audit and review of efficiency, with the MUP, the Ministry of Finance and Courts. To those bodies, as we had the opportunity to hear from the presentation of the esteemed State Auditor, they were submitted at the request of reports, documentation and additional clarifications for 127 audit entities, from which at the request of the State lawyers for 104 entities, MUP for 14 and Ministry of Finance for 7 entities. This Office shall inform the competent lawyers of orders and recommendations which have not been carried out and of the failure to provide a plan for the implementation of orders and recommendations within the time limit for which sanctions exist under the law. Therefore, the DORH informed 19 entities which did not submit a plan for the implementation of the tasks and recommendations within the legal time limit to the Office and 22 entities which failed to carry out the tasks and recommendations given in the revision in 2019 within the deadlines set out in the implementation plan for the tasks and recommendations set out in the audits carried out in 2020. This office also provided the DORH with notices of established infringements of the law with full documentation for 30 political parties and three independent representatives for whom the audit was carried out in 2020 established irregularities in business. I must point out that the party to whom I belong to the SDSS also received an opinion on the financial reports on the compliance of business, noting that both opinions are unconditional or that they have been followed by the rules of the profession. One of the causes of this number of warrants and recommendations made by the respected State Auditor in its 2020 statement that the State Office is certainly also legal gaps because for areas which are not or are not sufficiently regulated or the regulations are not harmonised audit entities acting differently. And that's one of the problems of this great number. The State Audit Office has proposed that these areas be regulated, and now it is up to us as legislators to find the best possible solution. This proposal by the Office concerns, among other things, the rules on budgetary accounting. In such cases, the Office shall provide information on the audits carried out by the authorities responsible for the implementation of the regulatory arrangements of those areas. However, it should be said to me, preparing for this debate is particularly interesting one report, and it is said that the Office on the State Audit Office in the media has published 494 publications, of which even 96% were positive. This is certainly interesting data, only 4% is negative posts and certainly with this high body should definitely support this report and what may be even more important, as I said in my replica, to make not filled out places in the Audit Office complete and make these places more attractive, and it does not require much wisdom, for this is the necessary financial resources. Either way, the SDSS Representatives Club will support your report.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u50440	The next debate is on behalf of HDZ MP Branko Juričev Martinchev's Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u50441	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, respected to the state's chief auditor with associates, colleagues and colleagues. This report on the work of the State Audit Office for 2020 The HDZ Club will support it. It's a well-designed, transparent report behind which the office's extremely quality work stands. I believe that, as did the previous year's report in this House of Commons, it will be passed and adopted without a vote against. It should once again be underlined that the State Audit Office is designated by the Constitution as the highest audit institution of the Republic of Croatia which is independent and independent in its work. All these years since 1994. When he started working, the office was extremely successful and the quality of his work was highly evaluated. What I would underline here is that the role of this office is important in preventing and revealing fraud and corruption. Although it does not have direct tasks and powers, it is indirectly involved in activities related to those areas which contribute to the preservation and protection of public property against illicit and unacceptable actions. Monitoring the implementation of tasks and recommendations contributes to improving the business of the audit entity and reducing fraud and corruption. In addition, the State audit can also act as a strong mechanism for deterring such activities and promoting accountability and transparency in the public sector. To each entity covered by the financial audit, we heard an opinion expressed in numerous findings and recommendations. Some of them are fully implemented, some in part, some are in the implementation phase, and even 14% have not been implemented. I would also point out 5.7% of orders and recommendations that are not applicable and mainly apply to units of local and regional (regional) self-government, and we have a lot of doubts here, so here are the recommendations for them if it is ineligible not to write them or to influence changing some laws or rules that lead to questionable interpretations. That's how it is, for example. At the time, great dilemmas were when we have a record of property, city or municipality providing funds for supply, for example. the public fire vehicle then gives them to the fire department for use or when it comes to the construction of municipal water buildings from city or municipal budget funds. What is very important is that the office gives recommendations and what regulations should be improved because they are not well enough and normatively arranged. So I believe that in the next period, there will be less and almost no recommendations that are not feasible. The new Law on the State Audit Office in 2019 introduces a penalty for non-compliance with orders and recommendations to be made by the Office in its reports. Furthermore, a report on the audit carried out shall also be submitted to the competent authorities where irregularities which may have the characteristics of the offence or criminal offence have been identified. This gave us the legality of the work of controlled entities, and certainly the number that is, for example, 2013 We had 342 unimplemented warrants, and we can see in this report for 2020 that we have 137, which is more than 50% less, exactly from, I would say in some ways and the fear of punishment. Because according to Art. 22. The law on the State Office shall be binding on the legal representative of the audit entity or the legal representative to which the order or recommendation relates within 60 days of the date of receipt of the final audit report to be required to submit to the Office an implementation plan and, moreover, not to quote the law now, to the fact that sanctions and fines are prescribed and up to 50,000 kuna. The Office shall inform the competent national authorities of the warrants and recommendations and shall notify the designated infringements. And just in this report for the first time since this law was passed in 2019, so it has just begun, it has just entered into force in this report, we can fully speak of how and how co-operation has been with the state's attorney's office because they have been given all the reports and notifications that have not been delivered and corrected. So, for example. For 22 entities no orders and recommendations have been carried out within the deadlines, and also the office and the MUP on request provide reports and documentation and provided further clarifications, as well as to the Ministry of Finance for 7 entities and courts for two audit entities. Business as we heard from the State Audit Office in 2020, as well as all due to the pandemic caused by Covid-19 was particularly unusual and different. In addition, the earthquake damaged business buildings of the Zagreb and Sisak offices. The office had to organise work from home, restrict the departure of state auditors to audit entities and direct communication with employees of audit entities. Part of the work was done via e-mail and online meetings, which of course affected both deadlines and a smaller number of audits. That's why I don't refer to numbers in this presentation because it's incomparable to the figures from previous years. However, due to the new State Audit Office Act and in 2019, there was an increase in the scope of the business, and capacity had to be increased, including an increase in the number of employees, as well as a business space. We could see what all the offices of the audit and what kind of items he had, there was also an audit of the sale of shares of the company from the portfolio of the capital fund managed by the Croatian Pension Investment Company, as well as activities related to the sale of shares and business shares of the company owned by the Croatian Roads, an audit of the efficiency of the management of interventions in sudden damages in the Adriatic Sea, the management of the waiting list for the process of magnetic resonance, until the JLS controlled by the planning and implementation of the budget, accounting operations and financial reporting, the income of the claim, expenditure of commitments, public procurement and other irregularities. From this we see that the entities and objects of the audit have expressed complexity and require great and expertise and the ability of the staff to be continuously educated. Therefore, we also need the necessary support of this very home and must have it in us. It is justified that it is in the state budget for 2020. 63 million kuna is secured for the audit, which is 4.2 million kuna more than the previous year or we see that 3.5 million kunas are provided with more funding for the financing of staff expenditure, although 370 jobs have been systematically systematised, in 2020 we have all of them I would say 288 and even three less than the previous year. The work of the State Audit Office is very important for the functioning of the state and all its bodies. The new law and sanctioning everyone who doesn't do their job got it, the office got an even more significant role, but of course their work was controlled. This report for 2020. Once again, I will emphasize it is well-made, transparent, it shows extraordinary effort and the work of this office and HDZ will support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u50442	The next debate is on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, the distinguished representative Boris Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u50443	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, honoring the state auditor with his associates. Here I might start where my colleague from HDZ ended up. The SDP Club will also support the report on the work of the State Audit Office for 2020. I'm not just saying that because of this quality work of the state office, but here, I know that a few of us were here before, some of the recommendations and the state office, I can see that he immediately adopted it unlike some others because that is the very visual identity of that report itself, yes. It seems to me that we've been discussing this too, here and now much simpler to ordinary citizens, to a very complex one complex matter such as the revision, it's not easy, it's not easy to understand that what the state's chief auditor was actually saying, it's not easy to even pass a test of whether, we see at all our young people as far as they're going to call for a state audit, we see a very small number of people coming out for that kind of work. And then you can imagine how much later this is like a complicated matter and, in this context, one commendation given the overall visual identity of citizens to read, understand, and that they can actually ask certain questions, yes. On the other hand, there were also speeches here about the wages and the structure of young people, or for the revision, so here the prominent state auditor mentioned that some other countries have not 30% higher wages than they have in Croatia for the review compared to, and you talked about, for example, the average. The state administration is. And imagine what the ratio of what a commercial audit and the State Audit Office is is, I'm not even going to tell you how different you are. So here you are, comparing you with the state administration, because you can't, and you're being honest with them that no one else is offended because it's not the same size of work you can't even compare to, you have to compare yourself with commercial audits because the one who learns the review is an audit, right? So the revision is the one in the commercial audit and the one in the state audit they pass the same exams, so it's just a little different focus of things, meaning the quality of financial reports, accounting procedures, etc., so these are the same schools. And imagine some youngsters, a young student goes on salary or salary or in state, in commercial audits where 100% higher wages are, I'm afraid, not 100% more than 200 or 300%, 2, 3 times higher than in the state audit. That's what you need to compare yourself to so we can determine not with the state, with the people who work at the state administration, I say no harm to anyone. Because he's here and he's even stronger now so he doesn't leave because someone's going to go into commercial audit for three times the pay. And that's actually the standard when we need to talk here how to help the State Audit Office get, to actually get quality young people. I said here in the introduction, especially apostrophe of the local administration, but I think I'm going to put an emphasis on these recommendations that the state's chief auditor actually said are shrinking. It's a good thing because in the last 10 years I say again and institutions are developing, people need to be educated, etc., it's a major trend. Sometimes it's just this number that says today is something 20 or something when we see some of these here are 5,000, etc. Unimplemented tasks, a trend is important. It's always really important to you when you manage institutions, when you actually want to improve the situation is a trend, and here it's actually said that the trend is positive and that this from some, before it was, 10 years ago means 2/3 of these orders and recommendations were carried out, 1/3 is not. Now it's no longer 1/3 but about 33. 34%, now it's already dropped somewhere to 15%. And we hope that if I say we'll see some other instruments that the Assembly can use, so legal solutions can improve that trend, so if it comes to about 10%, I think it's kind of acceptable in general for work, let's see how many institutions are actually, institutions are successful in that. What is certainly a fact is that when these figures show who better executes it means some kind of revision, they have made as much progress as they may sound, and the political parties have made significant progress in this, and they have made the ministries or the implementation of the state budget and the resolution ministries. What's a big problem, which is a big problem, and here I am, actually my accent is local management, right? Now we all speak openly because we have a large number of units of local administrations and self-government and when taking over government is the issue of expertise on all these local units of extremely complicated matter that you find both quality people and in small municipalities, look we have to be completely open here, look at some small municipalities where people are moving out, where they simply are, they are such trends to find someone of quality in accounting, in the revision that it lays out in this context is not a simple story. So it's not a simple story, and it's not all what the State Audit Office actually does, which is often mixed, that it's some kind of repressive apparatus, that they judge, that they find, that they break in, etc., they analyze, or that they're according to legal regulations exclusively and as you can see here in the report of accounting, accounting, accounting techniques, or whether there are procedures, processes and that there are certain control mechanisms. So in this context, you can't go into everyone and everyone who makes mistakes immediately asks them to process it. Let's not mess with things that can't stand up to each other. My question here was, in fact, whether the state office could execute, and today we heard the chief state auditor that he would try to give them the maximum in the revision of the local units now, when taking over local units, it's some extraordinary circumstance which, with this regular work done by the State Audit Office will be further imposed on them because it's not easy to deafen up when your mayors, mayors, etc., through the media this one, and what we've seen so far has been exclusively through the media, they're calling the state office for, to come and to make them some kind of review as some kind of start,.../incomprehensible/... starting behind the one that comes to exist. Very difficult, precisely because in the report itself if you look at the year 2019 when 63 units were analysed, 9 cities, 54 municipalities, again I say it is not easy to do such an audit when it is dislocated, when in remote parts of Croatia, when you have to come there, come with a team of people, there to analyse everything, today still the conditions of the crown, etc. Covida and that you take over and that I can do something about it and especially what I think we need to do more work here to help are internal controls in local units. Because if we expect someone to do something at some end of Croatia, one or the other or the south end or the east end, and then say look, call the state auditor to process it, because that's a certain perception. It's not even a job, and then it's just impossible to do it. The best way to prevent any kind of internal control. It's a method where delay helps audit, internal control. You control yourself. So isn't that actually the main point, that you have your control, the control mechanisms that are independent of establishing them. Then you'll actually drop the pressure on the State Audit Office. They can't just because of the lack of personnel and because of the whole thing that the State Office is actually impossible to do very high quality work, and very high demands for them are very high demands. In fact, the malts to be completely honest with anyone who takes power to say this is all wrong, now it's going to come, you need to process. So simply the whole process is very difficult and responsibility in the state office is then enormous. And that's why we need to set up internal controls at local levels here. They actually set themselves up control systems, not themselves if you want and in this part is the separation of local authorities that it can have internal control is progress and strengthening local institutions, not that someone has to come from Zagreb because we have someone coming from Brussels to ask us whether we have used funds well or whether we have made certain irregularities. What's the fact in the very conditional opinions that are given to the local unit I'll read a few areas. I think there's a lot of work to be done on. For example, according to the local units' financial reports, 45 conditional opinions have been expressed. You see a lot more than the unconditional, 45, 18. That's a pretty big deal for conditional opinions. Says irregularities are identified in the area of budget implementation planning, accounting operations, financial reporting, income and claims, expenditure and obligations, public procurement of assets. The budgets are not adopted in accordance with the rules, because they are not balanced, are not drawn up according to the prescribed budget classifications and do not contain their own and dedicated revenue from budgetary users, and the expenditure to be financed by them. So what it really means is that I'm not saying that internal controls in local units aren't satisfactory, because business processes aren't fully defined by internal acts. So that's what we all need to do, in fact, is primarily set up internals. control and thus the processes will improve. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Here's another SDP club to support this State Audit Office report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u50444	The next debate is the Association of MPs of the Homeland Movement, the distinguished representative of Ruzica Vukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u50445	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected chief state auditor with associates, esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs. Although the Office, therefore, has a significant role to play in promoting a culture of good governance of protection against fraud and corruption is primarily the responsibility of the audit entity and the executive authority. In this respect, the Office shall directly assist them in carrying out an audit resulting in irregularities, failures, and orders and recommendations. Let's remind ourselves here of some indicators that are inescapable when we open these topics in the Croatian Parliament. So in Croatia, as many as 97% of citizens believe corruption is a widespread phenomenon. In previous studies, therefore in 2013 and 2017 it was considered 94% and 69% considered corruption to have increased in the last three years. Of the 100 Croatian citizens, 97 believe corruption is a serious and universal problem. According to a report conducted in December 2019 on corruption research in all EU countries, Croatia is the EU's most corrupt country. For example, in Finland, 22 citizens out of 100 have such an impression. 93% of Croatian citizens believe corruption is present at local level and 87% are present in public authorities at national level. Corruption is the cause of eviction of citizens from Croatia, and creates the greatest threat to economic, social and social progress. When analysing the impact of corruption on the business sector, research shows that corruption is part of our business culture. The close link between the business sector and politics also causes corruption. This is considered by 83% of respondents. The only way for business success in the Republic of Croatia through political ties is considered by 80% of our citizens. 79% of Croatian citizens believe corruption and favoration prevents business competition. Good governance stops corruption, good governance is what is transparent, responsible, effective, impartial and promotes the rule of law. The independent preventive bodies of the fight against corruption in Croatia are the Commissioner for Information, the Commission for Decision on Conflict of Interest, the State Office for Audit, the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures, but also some executive bodies such as the Tax Administration. However, our citizens do not recognise the role of independent preventive bodies, as most believe that the media, the media that are increasingly revealing corruption and repressive bodies such as the State's Attorney's Office, USKOK and the police, play the most important role. A high level of mistrust in the judicial system is the result of long-term procedures that compromise efforts to combat corruption. Citizens are fully aware of the role of the media in disclosing irregularities, as only this can affect efficiency in the real resolution of irregularities. On the other hand, citizens believe abuses are present and spread among politicians, as well as in public authorities. Croatia has two challenges in fighting corruption. The first is the one directly related to the current anti-corruption activities itself, the second concerns the overall social context that should raise capacity in strong prevention and disabling corruption. The immediate challenges are low anti-corruption activation, low levels of sanctioning corruption primarily in the public sector, lack of stimulation to combat corruption at the level of the state administration, the impression of non-systemicity and high expectations of independent preventive and repressive bodies that do not have sufficient capacity. The main causes of corruption in Croatia deserve a special analysis because they provide possible answers to questions as to why the scales of corruption and its roots are deeply embedded in the awareness of citizens and ways of behaviour in everyday life. They should be monitored in a certain historical and political context and built on a new anti-corruption strategy. A conditional opinion has been drawn up for the annual report on the implementation of the national budget for 2019. The audit identified irregularities and failures in the area of preparation and implementation of the state budget, accounting framework and reporting, financing accounts and state guarantees. In addition to that audit, certain areas which are not normably regulated are identified, are not sufficiently regulated or are not harmonised, and the regulatory arrangements of those areas are within the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Finance. For all irregularities and regulations identified, 18 orders and recommendations have been given to contribute to a more transparent and realistic demonstration of data in the annual report on the implementation of the state budget and to more regular reporting of the state budget and of users. The audit also found that 35 of the 64 applications and recommendations were made in the previous audits and 5 were partially implemented while 24 orders and recommendations were made in the implementation process. Speaking of units of local self-government, the audit office detected the following. The exercise of municipal activities is directly entrusted to legal and natural persons without the public tendering process or the collection of tenders. Contracts on the confidence of the conduct of municipal activities have not been concluded with the contractors. Some maintenance and construction programmes do not contain the prescribed elements. In addition, only 352 orders and recommendations have been carried out since 520 of the tasks and recommendations given in the previous audits. The Office has carried out a financial audit of 7 budget users. The audit identified irregularities in the area of internal control, planning, accounting business, income, expenditure, investment in securities and public procurement. The financial statements of companies owned by local units are expressed in terms of 12 unconditional and 5 conditional opinions and on the compliance of business 3 unconditional and 14 conditional opinions. The audit also identified irregularities and failures in the area of internal control, planning, accounting and financial reports, expenditure and obligations, public procurement and other irregularities. The companies did not take adequate care of their obligations to publish on the website. The Regulation on the implementation of simple procurement procedures is not published on the company’s website. On their websites, they have not published a list of economic operators with whom the representative of the contracting entity or its related persons is in conflict of interest or notice that such entities do not exist. The company's been doing business with their loss. Some of the losses were significantly higher than the amount of capital. In view of the amount of the transferred loss, it has been established that there is a risk of a long-term sustainable business. The congregations did not make a decision to cover the losses and did not decide on the way in which they would cover it. Water service companies had unacceptablely high water losses. Let's remind all of this finally paid by our citizens. Financial audits shall express opinions on financial reports and on the compliance of business. The financial reports are expressed 51.2% of conditional opinions. The consistency of business is 47.5% of conditional opinions. The most frequent occurrences of irregularities and failures relate to accounting operations and financial reporting and are identified in 80 audit entities. Afterwards, the expenditures were identified by 54 audit entities. Public procurement, irregularities have been identified with 43 audit entities. Incomes, therefore irregularities have been identified in 33 entities, and in planning irregularities have been identified with 24 entities. In public procurement procedures, users are obliged to apply the provisions of the Public Procurement Act. In certain cases, in the case of simple procurement procedures are not prescribed by the internal acts of the user. Some budget users did not form a register of contracts and framework agreements, and some did not even produce a statistical report on public procurement. Finally, the State audit may act as a strong mechanism to deter fraud and corruption activities only if appropriate efforts are made at all levels to correct and remove irregularities in the collection and use of public funds. If the road and the way in which all the audit orders and recommendations are provided is fully implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u50446	The next debate is the Club of Representatives of the Most, the Honorable Representative of Troscott, Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u50447	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected colleagues and colleagues, respected state, chief state auditors, respected colleagues, respected citizens of the Republic who follow us through the screen, would only look back a little, since I know this, so the initial salaries of commercial audits and state audits do not differ much, so that there are some ranges and differences later, but there are no big differences in initial pay. And I'm a little saddened that very few people have applied to this job, so of 20 that only 17 applications have come for the reason that this is a very demanding job, a state of great need, an honorable job that works very hard and I think we should really make this one position so attractive to young people that, indeed, I can feel my contribution, therefore also in the service, so to serving the Croatian people and, on the other hand, learn a lot because I think that the best school is actually a revision for everyone. I would also agree with the fact that all of these local units should lay down internal controls and these are the tasks of local units. Now, my colleague Mr. Bulj will have the opportunity to do so in Sinj, and that's, say, the first line of defense where the local unit sets up an internal control system that then external audit, which in this case is state-owned, comes and only adds to the review. And without that one cooperation, and then later on, the corrupt authorities and without the DORH, it can't all be put on the back of the State Audit, and I don't think that's what it looks like right now. The question why I asked the main state auditor is this, so we get 24 billion euros from the Mosta Club disagreed with the allocation of these funds, and we have already discussed that a lot of this money from the National Recovery and Resistance Programme will go to the public sector, which is, in fact, from the economic sector which cannot lead to economic recovery. And why am I saying that? For reasons according to OLAF reports, which is one central internal audit body and corruption in general within the EU has actually brought in one report that the EU's money will therefore be the next contingent where it sees the greatest risks of corruption and the taking of money into channels that are not designed for projects. In this sense we are here, therefore I have set up for Croatian roads for the reasons that Croatia's roads and HZ Infrastructure are state-owned companies, which were still in the government's 2014-2020 strategy of the government, with a total of 800m euros, and this trend will continue for the reason that we have seen now the electronic system of toll collection, so again the Croatian road will receive 500 million kuna. Now, if they've already had problems selling shares of business shares, etc., and that's on the 55 pages of the State Audit report, it's already a big indicator that there are some problems with internal controls and there's a big questionnaire that has nothing to do with the State's audit, we're just pointing out the risks so it's a big questionnaire that if you have a problem here, and that's already selling shares, which is how you think you get such big money that's half a billion kuna. Furthermore, let's say the Justice Market is funded by EU money, and we called it a little bit of this kind of sweet market, Mr. Vladimir Seks. So we're talking about 700 million kuna money, and that's a lot of money, and that's about as much as this wire in the City of Zagreb that we don't think will lead to judicial reform. Therefore, judicial reforms need, above all, to be relevant in the sense that hearings do not last for ten years and we do not believe that such a single market will really lead to reform. So that's something where we definitely put a large questionnaire and that's a great potential to extract money from the EU fund that should go towards improving the Croatian economy. And also here's another item, that's 6 million kuna for sewers and a water network, so it also won't lead to economic growth as announced by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and potentially it all comes down to a project that will lead to an affair in a year, for example. Here's just for thinking, we point to differences. I'd like to congratulate you on your hard work, according to the report that you've really made a big step. And now I would like to invite my colleague and great friend Mr. New Mayor Sinj to continue his exposure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u50448	Go on, Mr. Miro Bulj. Congratulations, and me, Miri Bulju, the new mayor of Sinj, on his victory.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u50449	Thank you very much. I would first of all commend the work of the State Audit and since I was in the Assembly I have spoken about it and the effects in the report itself are visible. But what happened in public procurement, corruption, nepotism, unintended spending of any branch of industry, for example, shipbuilding of non-intentional spending of funds, it was in the reports. However, it would care and it would be one of the major problems, not the audit itself and the work of the office, but the tribune to strengthen it, the tribune to interest young people who are professional and who are willing to continue this work now strengthen this office, however, all stops, stops with the work of the state auditor. And that's where we come into the influence of a policy that's not good, because obviously, in both incentives, support and other things, that policy is holding back that part of the judiciary that should do its job because, according to those irregularities, they're reported to the DORH and the institutions that should be in charge. So again, the lack of confidence in competition, the destruction of competition, the question is essentially the mistrust of people who deal with certain people in particular is business in the judiciary because it suits certain people to spend money unintendedly. If someone's got money for ships, building ships, then they should build ships, and they can't work, I don't know my fairies. Therefore, I believe that politics and the influence of justice policy is the key culprit of what is happening in Croatian society, and I would like to see as parliamentary representatives to work out whether the judiciary is essentially not doing the rest of the work that the state auditor is doing year after year, doing his job in quality. Here I am personally as the newly elected Mayor of Sinj City, I am interested in the current state and finance and the rest of the City of Sinj, myself, and other leaders who will be taken over, and I am interested in whether the request for a state audit will come and carry out the audit on the day that I received it, whether it is credible, to me, perhaps all the best, I am interested in giving every local leader, mayor, mayor, new leaders who have been elected, irrelevantly, whether they have the possibility of a state audit if we give the request with a date or when I am no longer mayor or irrelevant to reach the state with that day, that it is a natural process and that in this way a state audit, but it is not, but it would be a tribal matter. This, regardless of the obligation of local self-government to have an internal audit, I think it should be introduced even through the law, but there will still be a lack of human capacities and other potentials that the Tribals would have. I think it would be a tribal to work on if the most important are clean bills, obligations, debts, anything that can be found. I can't now, as leader, know what will happen to the new, newly elected or my successor who is later or in another local self-government. We especially want to pay attention to public procurement, special attention to public procurement, and that is a lot of work to do with the capacities you have. Public procurement is the cause of destroying competition and people who may be more competitive, and even better performers, have better works, I think it would be worth paying attention to in the Republic of Croatia is it a pity that such companies are closing down. We today have literally destroyed the construction sector that was once terribly strong, only the constructor. We have to list a number of companies out there doing complicated projects while we're working on the Chinese Bridge, the Bridge, the Peleski Bridge. So we have to, now we've come to the stage that we have a number of these agglomeration examples and of course now multinational companies or large companies from outside dictate the price on the market, we've had an earthquake, we've had a number of all the agglomerations that will be made from EU funds and that they will now raise prices and lead to the questionability of the project. For example. In my Sinj was brought is a strategic project of the Republic of Croatia. [[Intruder: Time]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I apologize, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u50450	The next debate is on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club, the distinguished representative Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u50451	Dear MPs and MPs, the debate on the State Audit Office's report is good, it is the real basis and reason for me to repeat what I have said several times and for this speaker. So the state is made up of institutions, space and people. The territory of the Croatian state is that it is not in 30 years, we have not built enough strong and sufficiently independent and effective state institutions that should carry out what is logically part of their work and competence. We have devastated the space with a wave of corruptive actions that we can describe as the Kuščevisation process, and we have evicted people, mostly because of corruption that is not sanctioned in any way, it is not timely, it is not effective, there is no epilogue of large corruptions, no convictions, no sanctions, and at least the return of estranged funds from the public budget into private pockets, and then back. I'll start with what the state office itself said about myself, which is what their role is in preventing and revealing fraud and corruption. It is noted that preventing corruption requires the comprehensive and lasting care of all institutions in building an ethical culture with the active participation of all citizens. And there is the first problem in the Republic of Croatia, which is that there is no coordination and complementary powers of different state bodies that should be complemented in their powers in the system of detection, prevention, repression and processing of corruption. Therefore, there is no meaningful complementarity of their powers and competences. The State Audit Office says to itself that, as elsewhere in the world, a fundamental audit institution and such an institution is a fundamental condition for establishing public sector responsibilities for legal, fair and meaningful public property management. I will stop by this word “purpose. ” Neither the State Audit Office, nor any other institution or state body in the Republic of Croatia, checks and controls the purpose of the budget spent, and that is the first thing that we need to change in the amendments to the law. Furthermore, the state office says to itself that one of the most important tasks of each audit institution is to promote responsibility, integrity and transparency in the public sector everywhere in the world. The Office states that it has no direct task or powers to prevent fraud and corruption, but is indirectly involved in activities related to those areas which contribute to the preservation and protection of public property against illicit and unacceptable actions. The State audit may also act as a strong mechanism to deter fraud and corruption activities only if appropriate efforts are made to correct and remove irregularities in the collection and use of public funds and ensure that all audit recommendations are fully implemented. Just read this page and then analyze the data from this report and then we'll figure out where the underlying problem is. The main problem is that the State Audit Office itself as a state institution is a largely sub-suppressive institution to carry out what would be expected from the State Audit Office. And only if this report, which in itself is very high-quality and very detailedly drawn up, if we take it as a report that detects all the weaknesses of the system, all the incompatibility and sub-compatibility of the institutions, if we take it as a basis that will carefully read all that does not exist in our state system, both in the laws and in the powers of certain state institutions which do not exist in reality and practice, only then can we accept this Report, support it. But we will also assume the responsibility that everything in this report actually says that we lack to install in the state system both in the Corruption Prevention Strategy and in the accompanying implementing laws. And if I were to explain why I'm saying this report can only be a detector of all weaknesses of institutional and organisational I'm going to give a few examples. So, I'm going to start with the number of entities that were covered by state audit in 2019 in 2020, and I just have to point out that a small number of surveillance entities in themselves is not such a problem. I prefer, therefore, that given the capacity of the State Audit Office and a smaller number, this must then be compensated by the detail and quality of the audits carried out. So it's better to be a little, but it's efficient and better that the State's review is fear and shivering in the exercise of control and control. However, what is missing is missing as I have said comprehensive and complementary system which, once the State Audit continues its work on the basis of what the State Audit determines, would remove identified irregularities. There is, in fact, no such thing in the Republic of Croatia and that is what this Report testifies about. So, several concrete examples, state-owned companies. The Office carried out a financial audit of three companies owned by the Republic of Croatia and that audit covered financial reports and operations for 2019, so three. We also carried out a financial audit for 17 companies owned by local units, counties, cities and municipalities. So 3 plus 17, 20 out of a thousand and more public-owned companies. So why should such companies be afraid in the first place? However, of these 20 it is said that these companies have long-term been in charge of obtaining long-term assets without the consent of the majority owner or founder. You shouldn't read any further. Over. End of the system of effective control of the purpose of spending public funds and public assets. It is then said that companies did not take adequate care of their obligations to publish on websites. So even the minimum control of the interested public and citizens does not exist. In addition, the companies had lost their business. Some of the losses were significantly higher than the amount of capital. Furthermore, water service companies had unacceptablely high water losses. Finally, the State Audit Office says: “For all identified irregularities and failures, the Office has given 173 orders and recommendations whose implementation would contribute to the achievement of the truthfulness and credibility of the accounts of financial reports.” I say again for only 20 publicly owned companies compared to them over a thousand we have identified such irregularities. And what's worse, I ask an open question. What is the responsibility for non-compliance with the State Audit recommendations and orders in terms of political responsibility and the loss of a position in these companies? It just doesn't exist, and we know how in companies, it's being cadred. Furthermore, when we talk about the users of the state budget, the Office has carried out a financial audit for all 16 users of the state budget, of which 4 are indeed budgetary users, and 2 are extra- budgetary and this is the Fund for the Protection of the Environment and Energy Efficiency and Croatian Water. When we speak of what has been found, for example, it has been found that in certain cases in the case of simple procurement procedures are not subject to the internal acts of the users. Some budget users did not form a register of contracts and framework agreements, and some did not produce a statistical report on public procurement. Further local units. Of the 555 cities and municipalities, the State Audit Office has carried out a financial audit for all 63 local units. So, only 9 cities and 54 municipalities, and here we have found, for example, in relation to property and other irregularities, that long-term assets are not recorded in business books, that certain local units do not have the right number of business spaces and apartments, that certain business premises, apartments and public areas are rented or rented without a public tender. All that it says in this state audit that it is missing is drawn up in the draft anti-corruption strategy that I referred to the Croatian Parliament for consideration and adoption. And this way I urge all MPs to read the proposals for concrete measures contained and described there. They are perfectly complemented by everything in this report that has been detected that does not exist in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u50452	The following are individual debates. The first is the distinguished representative Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u50453	Good afternoon, everyone. First of all, I would like to say that this report is certainly good and to commend it as everyone has commended it, I would give a broader perspective and I would not like it to be seen as a criticism of this report. But just to put it in another context, and that's the context of anti-corruption policies. First, it should be said that the State Audit Office has no direct task or powers to prevent fraud and corruption although it is indirectly involved in activities related to those areas, which certainly contributes to the preservation and protection of public property against illicit and unacceptable actions. According to the Report, the Office is a factor in detecting and preventing fraud and corruption although it is not the express responsibility of the Office. The Office is seeking to remove irregularities in the collection and use of public funds. The report will thus give us the number of financial audits carried out by groups of audit entities and the number of tasks given and recommendations in audits and their status. Let's say it's in 2020. HS delivered 185 audit reports, and we will find out that only a small number of subjects did not act on orders and recommendations, 33.9% of them. Although the State Audit Office is a very important body to prevent corruption, the office still has limited opportunities to fight corruption. Is it possible to solve this with a little more power or is corruption some kind of problem that is a little deeper and different? What we expect in Croatia and many people expect is a magic wand where, by increasing these institutional tools of corruption, corruption will die, but it is weakly spoken or almost in no way about systemic corruption which we will, I fear, in the next period and this relative change, still the authorities are increasingly clear. Systemic corruption means that systemic and structural socially acceptablely is denied to a large part of the society by providing basic needs at the expense of the privileged minority. Standards of anti-clientelist and anti-corruption narrative from which rhetorical draws most opposition claims to power, especially those that have not yet been the bearers of the government, just give us power and everything will be better, structurally we will settle things and run the better get rid of corruption. It is an approach that leads to corruption that leads to problematic individual and group morals of the current or current authorities, or, for example, those irrational budgetholders or parties that are corrupt and prone to corruption. This approach implies that root changes are not necessary but is sufficient through elections in the current political framework to replace morally problematic individuals and groups in positions of government with morally insecure individuals who will not practice or support corruption and clientelem. Most opposition claims I say have a narrative, some slightly different so we can say these right-minded mostly go towards honesty and morality, and technocrats more focused on the revolution in the reform of institutions. However, moralization on corruption and clienteleism has been missed in my view without abolishing systemic incentives for corruption, and then there is moral and social disappointment when we come to the fact that these systemic changes have not been implemented nor have they been possible in this context, so standard anti-corruption policies completely leave out wider social economic incentives for corruption, and these incentives result from economic underdevelopment and unfavourable domestic economy positions in the global division of labour, low general levels of employment, large social inequalities, relatively low levels of meeting basic needs both in the overall population and in its workable segment, etc. Corruption can be resolved by anti-corruption policies, but which are in short helped by socioeconomic recovery and that is what we will not satisfy only some structural changes and legislative changes. It cannot happen, however, if we step up the neoliberal measures of deregulatory, specialization, privatisation of everything but the opposite, by maintaining the social state, trade union organisation, the fight for workers and the unemployed. That something through this office can be determined whether or not corruption is the best testimony to the fact that HDZ has received an unconditional review assessment. This speaks of everything we need to know about the reach and possibilities and the fight against corruption through these tools. It doesn't mean that the review shouldn't work, but we need to be aware of its achievements and I'll say I'll get an unconditional assessment as a party doesn't mean too much as a conditional one. So much what is trying to set as a corruption narrative is not effective. [[Santer Invader: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u50454	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u50455	Honorable Vice President, respected state auditor with associates, deputy. Here is your report to be seen in the context of all the other reports you are working during the year and which are very demanding and comprehensive and very quality. In 2020, we should also look at the context of the covid of crisis and earthquakes and conditions in which you have actually done a huge job in unconditional circumstances when we have to remind ourselves that the affairs of the Office of State Audit are partly set out in law, so you have to do a review of the state budget every year, and it is also necessary to revise political parties and independent representatives every year by law. When we look at what you have done with your strategic plan and work programme for 2020, then it is an extremely large range of financial audits as much as 216, 46 efficiency audits and 3 compliance audits. When we look at it in the context, it's actually a plan of which 185 audits were carried out where 160 financial and 25 efficiency audits were carried out. It is mentioned several times how many auditors you have, and this is a total of 229 state auditors currently of the total systematicised jobs that are foreseen to be 370 and filled in 288. So, the scope of the jobs that you do is extremely demanding and in this way actually proves that the State Office for Audit is a very organised and systematic institution that actually takes care of all segments of control and although you fail annually, it actually goes at some intervals of control of certain cities or municipalities, and then we see how much your work is very demanding and I hope that this is exactly what you are allowed to form an office, or in a building that is intended to have an educational centre, that it will allow for all members of the local self-government and regional self-government system to continue to be educated and that, in this way, you help education to make certain typicals say that some typeed errors would not happen to you, and that all those involved in daily work were actually made possible as much business as possible and that there would be no doubt at all what Branka colleague said about any double or foreign legislation in any way possible way.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u50456	We have one replica, distinguished representative Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u50457	Dear colleagues, the State Audit has done a huge job as well as all previous years. That's what you can see from the report. And anyone subject to the commission and their review should be grateful in every conditional opinion and every objection received, given that this is the best and safest way to remove it, to be publicly available, to be visible and to in some way also to the leaders of the units of local self-government and to all other responsible persons help to make these irregularities in the walking of the correct. And just the results of all these findings so far point to this through all these past years so far, and listening to remarks that too few municipalities or cities... 60 and something, it says someone who doesn't know how to do it, what it's a huge job to do in some unit of local self-government audit, look at all possible documents, decisions, accounts, everything that goes through that city or the community so that in any case it should be commended and continued with this kind of work. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u50458	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u50459	Thank you very much. Yeah, well, it's a lot to say that whoever was involved in any procedure knows what it is and how much of a job it is. And indeed, personally, long-term work can testify to how demanding it is. I would point out once again, that when a conditional opinion is criticised in certain units of local self-government, then I think it's one big stigma because behind that sometimes those who don't know what business it is think that conditional opinion is something illegal, not transparent enough, etc. But the state auditor must in one way point out that there are certain needs for corrections, and then up to that unconditional opinion is actually a very small step.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u50460	Following is the final debate on behalf of the Centre and Vosa MP, Dalia Oreskovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u50461	Thank you. We should not allow that next year when we will discuss the following in a series of State Audit Office reports we only find that the fight against corruption actually does not exist in terms of content and results. This report should be treated as a diagnosis, as a search finding, and therapy is a new system, i.e. a new anti-corruption strategy. And instead of waiting for such a document to be referred to in the parliamentary procedure by the government that makes up the political party convicted of corruption, so I repeat the HDZ government and point out that the draft strategy that I have drawn up and directed into the parliamentary procedure is being discussed. And if we hadn't heard it on purpose, I'd have drawn some very concrete examples from this report, and now I'm going to try to summarise at least the areas in the remaining four minutes, at least the whole of which the new Anti-Corruption Strategy should have. The first is the full fiscal transparency of all notified budgets, so that the state budget, so the budget of all units of local and regional self-government and all other public bodies, and that means the presentation of all individual payments and payments not in a way that the name of the company or the OIB can be entered in the individual search engine, so the data that you already know already exists but the full openness of the data and the search engine that allows you to search the budget according to all possible different criteria. That kind of openness doesn't really exist right now or in the local self-government unit, and this is an opportunity after local elections to finally make a quality step. The second area, the second topic, is the conversion of the existing Commission to decide on conflict of interest into a new body, into a stronger body than Clark Kent, let's make Superman, the Office for the Prevention of Corruption, which would have new powers and new competences with tasks currently in the Republic of Croatia no one performs. One of these responsibilities would be an analysis of corruption risks. This would mean, for example, reading the law and analysing what the law lacks or what is wrong with which a particular risk arises. So it wouldn't happen to us, for example, that when the Environment Fund is set up, we have a situation where the fund's director is not an employee and is not subject to the obligation to file a property card. The third thing is to set up a whole series of new public registers that don't exist. The first of them is the register of state property, but also the register of property in particular of each single county, city or municipality. I will stress that we also have the State Property Management Act and the State Property Management Strategy, none of which has been implemented in practice, and this is a re-enactment and a task now after local elections to set up a register of their property in which there will be a list of all properties, all business premises, as well as information on who is using it, on the basis of which act, for which period and following the information whether and when it is paid, contracted rent or rent. That's how he fights corruption, and there's no such thing as a witness to this report. The third thing is the register of all business relations and all contracts both at the state level and at regional and local level. In those contracts, such registers would therefore publish concrete acts without anyone having to seek them on the basis of the right to access information. A simple click of the mouse would show what is written in a single contract. The third thing is the introduction of a commitment that all state and public bodies have internal rules on preventing conflicts of interest and integrity plans. And integrity plans would also include the obligation to verify the purpose of budget spending. The laws also require the personal responsibility of the responsible person and even to the level of damages if the contract is signed in a situation of potential conflict of interest or breach of any other internal rule. The last thing that needs to be put into the anti-corruption strategy is territorial reconstruction, in practice of reducing the number of counties, cities and municipalities and reforming electoral legislation. Such a strategy when adopted will then be able to say that we are serious about the fight against corruption. And that means constructive and quality opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u50462	The next final debate on behalf of HDZ Representatives' Club, distinguished representative Branko Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u50463	Thank you very much, Vice President. So here on behalf of the HDZ Club, one more time we would refer to this report on the work of the State Audit Office for 2020, which we all supported and once again underlined their role in preventing and detecting fraud and corruption, stressed that by the Constitution, the State Audit Office has been designated as the highest audit institution that is independent and independent in its work and since '94. The quality of their work is highly successful and highly rated. We are also reminded that in 2019, in this high house, we have passed a new Law on the State Office for Audition and where there is a penalty for non-compliance with the orders and recommendations that the Office makes in its reports, that it is an obligation to submit all these reports to the State's Attorney's Office. We can see that precisely because the new law and the number of non-implemented orders from 2018 came into force when 342 were such an unimplemented warrant and recommendations, we now have only 137. The deadlines are prescribed by this law as well as fines of up to 50,000 kuna. So all the recommendations, all the warrants and all that, all that's been reported to the State's Attorney's Office. In this year and 2020 respectively, for which this report was submitted, it states that 22 entities which failed to carry out the tasks and recommendations within the deadlines were informed to the State Attorney's Office, that the Ministry of Finance had also delivered reports, documentation and further clarifications, that the Ministry of Finance for 7 entities which did not operate in accordance with the law was informed as well as courts for 2 audit entities. As regards support for the State Audit Office, it also speaks enough of how much funds are reserved in the state budget. The sad fact is that the personal income of an auditor who must be a major obstacle to young people’s employment is that these incomes are extremely low. And I believe exactly after this debate in this spare home and the problems that we have in the state office because of the lack of personnel that will soon go with a new or regulation or sublegal act that will regulate and define this area because the work of the State Audit Office is extremely important to us for the functioning of the state and all its bodies. This sanctioning is extremely good that it has been included in the new law, and their work is subject to continued control by independent auditors and I believe that all of us together can contribute to making this office full of even more quality personnel and so that this could be reflected both in the field of all and units of local self-government and all those in control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u50464	The next final debate is on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, the distinguished representative Zeljko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u50465	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, respected chief auditor with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I think the report shows what the scope of our audit's affairs is and what's most important is that we can all conclude together that it's one of the more quality reports we've received from the Parliament. I have already commented here with several reports that we have received from various institutions and positive and negative, but I think we have all agreed that this is one of the more quality reports, both in content and in topics that are done and contained inside, and what we can say that you are parties only to praise. It is clear to us that, unfortunately, when you finish your work that it is not all over and that is what is very difficult for us because after your work you should follow other institutions that should do your job, institutions that are called by many politicians and local self-government leaders, some institutions are doing their job, but these institutions are not doing their job, and then there are big problems for our citizens, for our fellow citizens who can't actually get to the real truth and can't get to the satisfaction. We all know what's going on, but what I've already said in my replica, unfortunately you can only review business events that are in business books, anything else that isn't in business books, unfortunately you can't do it, someone else should do it. And I've already spoken here several times, we need to figure out a way to connect the work of all these institutions that should work in the same direction, which is to monitor what is happening in local self-government units and in companies owned by local self-government units, and also in state-owned enterprises and in the ministries themselves. And import spending money and small competitions and public competitions over 200,000 kunas which is extremely important to us because that money actually goes like this into the wind. This is not just about reviewing public tenders, of course, it is about financial audits. And I think it is extremely important to also draw attention to the legal monitoring of business events, but what is extremely important for all of us to try to influence these leaders and local self-government and the ministries and businesses that are owned by both local self-government and state-owned enterprises to work fairly, correctly and that these competitions that are being discussed are being examined in order to get as high-quality offers as possible. I was already saying that when we had other reports there, unfortunately there are very few people who are willing to call the competition in a way that gets the highest quality offer than most often the competition is called in a way that gets the lowest price and there's a problem. So I know you've got a lot of work to do, I know you've got a problem with the staff, I know that when you've got the job done by the private auditors, where they've got three times the salary, and until those wages are equal, you'll have a hard time getting people through the competition because here you have said you need 20 auditors, you've got 17 people or 15 people, maybe five, six of them will pass the tests, when they learn jobs and everything else will go to a private auditor because they'll get paid several times as much. I'm sorry about that. We think that the work that you did last year was correct, we think that the report is extremely correct and well written, readable, all data are easily comparable and what we can say only with congratulations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u50466	We've exhausted the debate with this. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Now we're gonna take a break. I thank the State Auditor, the head of the State Auditor. We'll take a break by 12:00 when there's a vote. MEETING AT 11:41 A.M.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-06-02-0.u50467	And last today's voting point Report on the work of the State Audit Office for 2020. The applicant is the main state auditor. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The report on the work of the State Audit Office for 2020 is hereby adopted." Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 115 MPs and MPs voted, 112 for and 3 abstentions, and thus the conclusion was reached that it was proposed by the parliamentary parent committee. This is what we've come to an end, now we're going to continue with free speeches, so please let those who want to follow stay, those who don't leave the assembly. As announced, we will continue on Wednesday, next week with a debate on budget rebalancing. Thank you very much. Annual report on the work of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2019 The applicant is the Personal Data Protection Agency. We will vote on this item on the agenda in accordance with article. 4th century. 4th century. The Rules of Procedure of HS. In accordance with the proposal from the home working body, I am voting on the following conclusion: an annual report on the work of the Data Protection Agency for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2019 is hereby adopted. Who's in? Who's restrained? And who's against it? I find that 113 MPs and MPs, 105 for, 8 abstentions, voted, so it was concluded that it was proposed by the home working body.
