ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27172	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I'm opening the sixth session of HS and I warmly welcome you all. I also welcome the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Andrej Plenkovic, Vice-President and other members and members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This session begins with a regular meeting of the HS, which, according to the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the Rules of Procedure of the HS, begins on 15 January and ends on 15 July. I invite you at the beginning of the session to pay tribute to the homeland by performing anthem "Beautiful Our Homeland". I invite you now to pay tribute to those who have given their lives to Croatia, to the fallen Croatian defenders, but this time especially to all the deadly victims in the devastating earthquakes that hit our country, for 8 lost young lives in the New Year's Tragedy in Possuje and all the deceased of Covid-19. A moment of silence, may they have eternal glory, and thank them. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the minutes of the 4th and 5th session of HS have been approached by electronic means. Any comments on the records? If there are no objections, I would like to point out that we have adopted the minutes of the 4th and 5th session of HS in the proposed text. We are now moving on to the agenda of the session. With the invitation to the session, you also received a draft agenda. The final draft agenda was sent to you by electronic means. In the final draft agenda, I also included 6 new points under regular numbers 1 to 5 and 30. I would like to stress that the new points proposed in the final draft agenda are printed in bolder letters. Those points did not contain the draft agenda that you received with the invitation. Art. 227. The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. Art. 206. The Rules of Procedure lay down that, following an urgent procedure, laws which comply with EU documents should be adopted if requested by the applicant, are not voted on. These are points 5 and 19 of the final draft agenda. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. The 206th century is 1. I hereby establish that these legal proposals are included in the agenda by emergency procedure. We had here a request or an objection to a proposal for an emergency procedure in the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Civil Protection System Act. The proposal, that is, came from the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives. No, in accordance with Article. 206. The rules of procedure of these legislative proposals are included in the agenda by emergency procedures of automation, so that they cannot come out to meet your observations. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation The Rules of Procedure will now be decided on the draft laws for which the Proposer proposes the adoption of an emergency procedure. These are points 2, 4 and 58 of the final draft agenda. Does any of the representatives have any objection to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of these laws? If there are no objections, I shall determine that the proposal for the implementation of the emergency procedure is accepted in accordance with Article. 205. Rules of Procedure. Since there are no written objections to the agenda that I have proposed with the call for a session, as well as at the points of the proposed final draft agenda, the agenda shall, in accordance with Article. 225. The rules of procedure shall be deemed to be fixed. Let me announce that the established agenda is the way I suggested it in the final draft agenda. Madam and gentlemen, before we move on to asking questions to the government, as you have been informed in your scheduled agenda for this week's debate, a debate on the government's amendment was planned on Thursday on a proposal for a decision to declare the exclusive economic belt of the Republic of Croatia in the Adriatic Sea, which the government submitted after the debate was concluded. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation The Rules of Procedure on such an amendment must be agreed by the majority of the representatives present. Are you okay with that? So there are no objections, and then I find that this amendment is also put to debate. Before we start asking questions in the current morning, I would like to inform you that it is in accordance with the provision of the article. Paragraph 142. Since the start of the mandate, the RS government's rules of procedure have put in place 173 parliamentary issues since the start of the term of office. The government has answered 105 questions, and for 9 questions, the deadline has not expired yet. The Government of the Republic of Croatia, or individual members of the Government, did not respond to 59 parliamentary questions and based them on an article. 144. I call on the Rules of Procedure to answer those questions within 8 days. Government officials know what the issues are because I've also sent them written calls, haste to answer. Here's your buddy, Grmo.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27173	I would ask the question of the Honorable President, what about those questions from the previous assembly where the Rules of Procedure has been broken, where the Government has not answered, which will be with these questions and whether there is some kind of behaviour and what we as representatives from the previous assembly can take, given that the Government has broken the law and has not answered the question.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27174	So, in this situation, since it's a past conference, I would suggest you ask the question again if you don't think you've got an answer to it. Those are the rules, that's how the Rules of Procedure defines, and I can't help you there. Here's your colleague, Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27175	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you for this remark, or for warning the members and members of the Government about parliamentary issues. I've put the 3rd Assembly together in this session, and I've never received an answer before. I have been late for more than two months by the Prime Minister with one question, the second more than a month, the health minister also. I mean, I appreciate this warning, but, I mean, they still don't have sanctions if they don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27176	Thank you, fellow Glavasevic. The sanctions are not provided for by the Rules of Procedure, so I simply do what is in my power as President of the Parliament and I call on the representatives of the Government to answer the parliamentary questions, but also, we must be aware that the parliamentary issues are very much, as you can see and they are responding quite well to the rhythm, and one part of the questions will have to be answered in the next period.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27224	The next Club of Representatives is the SDP, and on his behalf will speak the esteemed representative Davorko Vidovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27225	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to talk a little bit out of the ordinary, primarily about us fellow MPs and about something that's not common, something that's going to be on the agenda tomorrow for a very pragmatic reason. Because I think by tomorrow, let alone by the time we vote on the Rehabilitation Act, there's still time and space to change what needs to be changed. I will refrain from the more difficult qualifications of this law's proposals primarily by referring to the part of the law relating to the disposal of the city of Sisak and the extraction from the space of the second most underdeveloped county in the Republic of Croatia and the placing of the city of Sisak in the same rank with the most developed parts of Croatia in those where GDP per capita is, for example, 10 times larger than in the town of Sisak. It's something that can be a very dangerous, very dangerous and very malignant result of ours, I would say, alertness and recognition of problems that will have long-term consequences for all those affected by this catastrophic earthquake, the greatest natural disaster we have experienced in recent history. In fact, only the politically blind, only irresponsible, only the incompetent can propose a law that will equate the town of Sisak, a city that I say has more pensioners than employees, I think it is 11,000 employees, 12,000 pensioners, that the city that is the engine of development of the entire county, which, if not restored, means giving up on the whole of that space, is a city in which half of all the damage in the area affected by the earthquake and more than half of the people affected by the earthquake, that would mean a small door to get out of the basic task that this law seeks to achieve, which is to ensure that people are guaranteed in an equal way to rebuild their homes, but not just houses, but to restore the infrastructure necessary for the return of life in that space. The town of Sisak and Sisak-Moslavina County, of course, according to the model proposed, have no fiscal capacity nor in the gap to compare themselves with Zagreb in which the town of Sisak was placed as tobože highly developed, highly developed JLS. I will also mention that there are pensioners living in Sisak, half of whom cannot afford to finance neither half of them nor one meal of meat a week, let alone finance the restoration. The city whose centre represents a protected cultural and historical unit has been completely destroyed. What you see in Petrinja there are 200-year-old buildings that have fallen into the dust. Here you have the feeling that it's all behind all that stands, it's actually cracked walls that are threatening to collapse, and it's about buildings that are all marked red. There are no people who live in these buildings to rebuild these houses and Sisak without complete and complete takeover by the state will not be. There is no financial possibility, and even I would say that someone invests in the rebuilding of the house a thousand euros per square square, whose market value after the renovation will not be 300, 400 how much the price of the property is now, say, to the old houses in Sisak or in the new construction of 800 euros compared to Zagreb where it goes up to several thousand. So, I'm asking you colleagues and colleagues to be careful and not to raise our hands for this law, right? to be participants in the repression of life in Sisak and Banija. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27302	Dear colleagues and colleagues, here we are going to continue and we will be taking a stand on behalf of the Club of Representatives and Independent Representatives and the first one will speak for the Croatian Sovereigns Club, the esteemed representative of Hrvoja Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27303	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here's the Prime Minister who just left our assembly, and I wish he'd stayed here for a few more minutes to hear what I have to tell him, but maybe he's still hearing and maybe he's doing something about this, even though I'm going to say, I doubt it. I called this government a time-old Croatian-Serbian trade coalition which I would have added along the way that the Croatian-Serbian-Romanian trade coalition is and today I will call it the Government of Double Criteria. On the one hand, we have his most faithful Minister Bozinovic, Minister Beros, who day-to-day scares the Croatian people from TV screens, from Internet portals, with a view to stationing about the danger of the crown of the crisis. So then we formed all together one civil protection headquarters and gave that headquarters unlimited authority. And every county has its own head of civilian headquarters. So does my Sibenik-Knin County. That chief's name is Nikola Blažević. And this Nikola Blažević, I will repeat, the head of civil headquarters, means the headquarters of civil protection, he's dead cold these days with his companion going to restaurants, there eating and drinking, not to say he eats and separates and does exactly what he defends to Croatian citizens. So it's not about any prominent HDZ, it's about the mayor of Sibenik-Knin County, and I'll repeat, it's about the head of civil protection headquarters in Sibenik-Knin County and nobody. I would like to know if the Prime Minister will be consistent here and order Minister Bozinovic to take this man's emergency shift. But this isn't all, it's not really an exception, but here's when we're talking about him and the city of Knin and Sibenik-Knin County, and here I have to present a very interesting document here and it's about an account that's worth 34 920 kn and dates back to 2017, just two days before the local elections. Nothing is disputed, except that the city of Knin with the budget money of the citizens of the city of Knin, paid for food and drink, I will translate it, eat and locate, for its own, he tells employees and mayors of neighbouring municipalities, but to translate it a little bit, it's an election campaign, an election promotion which is about taxpayers' money or the financial money of the city of Knin. And nothing to anyone. Did Andrei Plenkovic know about this? Well, it probably is. If he doesn't know, he'll find out now. That only two days before the local elections four years ago, that same man who today harshly violates the measures of the Civil Protection Staff spent a huge amount of money in one suspicious way. What does Minister Bozinović say by scaring us? We're kind of getting used to it. But here I have to ask from this place one question which here may be legitimate and that is why in neighbouring BiH we have open catering facilities, restaurants, cafes and in Croatia are closed? I must stress that there are even fewer figures in BiH than in Croatia. Who's wrong here? Is the management of the BiH Coronary Crisis wrong, or is it the Croatian Civil Protection Centre, which has imposed too strict measures? This may be one question that all Croatian citizens are sure to ask themselves but from this place I am asking it to the Government of the Republic of Croatia or to the Civil Protection Headquarters.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27360	Thank you. Before the next club, let me just say, since we're a little bit out of line, then we'll keep working after we finish these free speeches at 15.45, so you know. And now, on behalf of the Green-left bloc's Club of Representatives, a respected representative, Sandra Bencic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27361	Thank you. Today, I will speak to tomorrow's debate on amendments to the Law on Reconstruction not only of the law, but of what the Government, according to Prime Minister Plenkovic, has always done with the implementation of this law in the City of Zagreb and in Krapina-Zagorje County, and at the same time promises people in Banija that the reconstruction will be swift, that it will be effective. Let us hope not as well as their initial response to the terrible earthquake that hit the region on December 29th. A month ago, the European Commission provided a full amount of grants from the Solidarity Fund, complete. So we first received 88.9m euros in August last year, and the remaining 594.7m euros were paid on 18 December. But a month after the payment and the grant from the Solidarity Fund, there is still no tender for the restoration of the infrastructure that should be financed. So we still don't know if a project documentation for reconstruction has been prepared for any building or facility in the City of Zagreb. We don't know if any of it's been prepared by the state, if anything has been prepared by the city. But what we certainly know is that our schools, hospitals and kindergartens, which are primarily meant for reconstruction, are still insecure. When I say insecure, I don't want to hear the argument Mr. Bandic regularly makes that they restored those schools, hospitals and kindergartens because they didn't renew them, they rescheduled them so that I didn't say, they had a little bit of swallowing and scratching. The safety that we all have as parents of these children who go to those kindergartens and schools, we ask for the safety that these objects will not collapse in the first next earthquake that is unlikely to occur. So I'm going to give you a plastic example. The Faculty of Agriculture in Zagreb, which has stairs in one pavilion, has put a warning on those stairs that there must be 5 people on them to avoid collapse. Now, please explain to me, when you get 100 students to college, how are you going to translate them five by five across those stairs? Is that the safety we provide for our students, our students, our children in kindergarten? Also, 200 people who are victims of the earthquake in Zagreb are still at temporary accommodation in the hostel Arena, families with children and with school children. At the level of the task as he boasted today, he did not provide them with accommodation or rental of apartments at appropriate prices but assured his mayor that he lived free of charge in the state house. And we go there regularly to the hostel Arena and we watch children who do not have an adequate Internet and their online school starts because they could not find apartments where people do not look for apartments for free, only ask for a more favourable rent. We still got 10 months. After the earthquake, we keep the rooms in one hostel. I will also tell you the case of a young mother, 28-year-old nurse Mateje Šušković of the Medvedski hill, who is one of those who still lives in a container, without a sanitary knot, without a shower with a small child. A little baby. In addition, she and her husband are paying for loans they took before the earthquake to arrange the house that was then torn down in the earthquake. Did the gentleman at the level of the task give them a moratorium on credit? Did they get alternative accommodation? It's not. But they're not the only, minimum, 50 other families in Chuchery living right now in containers. Those at the height of the task left them at -7 with small children, 10 months. After the earthquake in the containers. For example, at the height of this task did you fix the cost of making project documentation and construction work for people who are starting to rebuild? You're not. Did you make sure that the paperwork was funded from the fund? No, they're funding people themselves. Have you made it impossible for building managers such as the GSKG to charge the residents to submit requests for reconstruction of 3,000 kn? Is that normal? Did we make it possible for people who are moving into the self-refurbishment phase? No. No. No answer to a key question about the restoration of citizens can be obtained. [[Thank you, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27409	Thank you. The Honorable Representative Davor Dretar will now speak on behalf of the House of Homeland Movements' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27410	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. This Sunday, January 17th, I visited 12 families in the area of Krapina-Zagorska County, more specifically in the municipality of Stubica, which are still the 12 families temporarily situated, which is from 3rd m. Last year, in the bungalows of the Jezerčica Term, let me bring problems to you and to the Croatian public on their behalf, that is, what bothers them. They have a big problem with completing documentation, some people have houses that don't have a building permit, so an older date's house, they're having trouble completing demands. They also have problems with the statisticians due to the recent earthquake, the facilities have experienced further new static and damage disorders, and a request should be submitted for the review of the statisticians and pre-payment of 3100 kn which is a huge financial cost to these people. The documentation is general, there is no specific requirement for the restoration of the family home but it is typical and common documents for multi-story residential buildings, so there is no special form for family homes only, and according to this and a list of documentation. Due to the difficult financial situation, most people have a problem with paying 20% of how much they should be participated in reconstruction costs than for 30 households, as well as for other weaker property status in the Krapina-Zagorje County, I advocate that the state bear the full cost of the renovation. There's also a problem with the system's trombone. When people call the telephone no one is answering, there is no information from the competent ministry, so I suggest opening a temporary office in Krapina-Zagorje County, best in Gornji Stubica, which would be in charge of timely information and assistance in the adoption of requests, submission of applications, as well as assistance in rebuilding houses. Some of the people would not like to have houses on the same ground, some people have houses on, unfortunately, skates that occurred after the earthquake, so I appeal once again to an individual approach to solving the restoration problem. Even an elaborate price of up to 8,000 kuna represents a great cost for these families. I believe, and I believe that you are all in agreement with these 12 families, as well as many people in other Croatian counties affected by these earthquakes, they are just people who want to return to their homes and they have every right to do so. Once again on their behalf, I pray nicely and ask who were injured in the earthquake can I contact to obtain information regarding the completion and submission of requests for renewal and collection of the necessary contributions? Namely, the requests sent by e-mail for renewal in the area of Gornja Stubica are expected for more than a month or in most cases do not arrive at all. When it's called, no one's answering. Is it also planned to open an office to assist in filling out requests for reconstruction in Krapina-Zagorje County, primarily for victims in the stepby-step area? Is the ministry planning on sending its experts on a field tour and possession of the victims? In fact, if the ministry were to send experts to the field work, people wouldn't have to pay their own funds, which, unfortunately, they don't have in most cases. There is a possibility for a tour of the terrain since the Ministry of Construction has all the information needed to send professional teams, since all the necessary information has already been reported and typed into the application of the Ministry. Furthermore, the earthquake in the stairway area that damaged housing was March 22nd. These facilities were unfortunately and additionally damaged during the December earthquake last year. Will it also be possible to re-establish static damage on these facilities? What's the legal time limit for responding to a request? On behalf of these people, please also extend the deadline for submission of the renewal application and after 30 June 2021. Because that deadline is a little over five months away, and some people haven't even moved from a zero point. And once again, on behalf of all peoples of Krapina-Zagorje County, people are equally weak in property status and unfortunately in most other Croatian counties I appeal to the government of the Republic of Croatia that the cost of reconstruction for them is 100%. Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27479	The next club of representatives is that of the Centre and GLAS on behalf of which will be spoken by respected representative Anka Mrak Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27480	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. Dear colleagues and colleagues. "The state is me," legend says French King Louis XIV said. Meanwhile, the sentence has become a synonym for absoluteism and should not have any place in democracy. But almost 400 years from that statement, she certainly has supporters in our modern rulers. Our Louis XIV is our Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, a state that I am telling us his words and his behavior. The state is us, HDZ is the motto of the first days. It is that this motto was designed by an absoluteist 16-year-old in the 17th century is not very encouraging for all of us who live in Croatia today. The state is me, the state is us, that's what they say, and that's how our prime minister and the world around him behave. Although the government building is called Banski Dvori, this is not the time, nor the courts, nor the kings, there are only temporary representatives of the people who are expected to behave democratically. Being elected does not mean that they are a state or that what keeps them in the hands of the state and citizens. In particular, this does not mean that they can take away our right to be dissatisfied, to criticize them and their bad work. And that's exactly what the last days have tried to do in the old HDZ tradition. We are a state and who criticises this country, demonstrates the state as the prime minister says it was perfect, and we should all gather our hands together and clap on those who failed in time to respond to the disaster that occurred and the establishment of headquarters and the declaration of disaster and a lot of help on the ground all of this was too late and too disorganized. Prime Minister Plenkovic calls it the principle of phasing out. I don't know that this principle of phasing out and that this country not the Republic of Croatia but the government and the services that run exclusively the HDZ group of chefs has learned a lesson. Both the media and the opposition and everyone conspired to deny the entire state, we heard it from HDZ from the Vice-President of the European Commission no more than for democracy. We also heard that the one who delivered those statements to the media was stupid. And if that fool is what those who have spoken such sentences are like. The indignity of the state because someone dared to look at how it was done, and he did not clap and raise the king of the sun in heaven. Dear Prime Minister Plenkovic, you and your party are not a state, but that is why you are together with your party colleagues who have made this country incompetent for all those living in it except for you in HDZ. You have the right to one, the state has been decommissioned for three decades, it's been denied by a party in which you've cold-bloodedly joined, knowing that in the 1990s it's devastated everything that was given and possible. In that country, we are all afraid of what will happen to Banija because we are watching Zagreb. 10 months after the earthquake, no single brick or brick was restored, and 4,000 families were without heating and hot water. In this and such state, HDZ Mayor lives free of charge in the state house even though he has several properties. The same mayor who was in charge of rebuilding the houses that collapsed because of a bad renovation. Dear Mr. Plenkovic, let your attention be given to that and that is the state you are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27552	The next Club of Representatives will be the HDZ on behalf of which a respected representative, Rade Simicevic, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27553	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, viewers and viewers. Here we are at the beginning of the second educational period in an extremely complex situation that has not been recorded in history. The drama of this time for us in Croatia is the pandemic of the coronary virus and earthquakes in Zagreb and the surrounding area and earthquakes in Sisak-Moslavina County. Unfortunately, all of us in Croatia, and especially the inhabitants of this county, where seven innocent people died from the earthquake, including one little girl. This earthquake not only destroyed most of the people in the area, but also mentally burdened and interrupted everyday life and work. In such an atmosphere, when the soil is still shaking, when the coronary virus is there, life and the teaching process should be organized. The organisation of teaching should certainly be protected from politics and daily bickering, we cannot believe how much one sentence can cause panic among people in these impossible times. In view of all this, we must commend Minister Fuchs here with his associates who timely sent all the messages needed and related to the start of the second educational period. People are ahead of the task and taking into account all the troubles, teaching is organised in the only possible way and that is model B while teaching at Banovina is delayed for two weeks and a quality solution will be found by then. Here in this honorable home I would like to thank the employees of schools and in a special way all teachers and teachers, teachers and teachers, directors and directors, students and their parents for their active support in this unforeseen situation. And this way I would like to ask all the educational staff that, by working online teaching, they don't put students' tasks beyond 20 hours because it can further complicate their success in this situation. As the founder of this local administration, the State has provided equal conditions for all students in teaching and at the moment the best model has been selected taking into account the recommendations of the epidemiological situation and the care for each situation that arises. However, here is a much more important psychological aspect of how to get out of this mental health problem, how to be stable and psychological help to children and parents is much more important than learned facts. This decision can also be changed and I ask everyone who appears in the media space not to enter conspiracy theories in style “it could have been like this, it could have been like this” so it could have been different and their actions confuse everyone in the system even though they know that education has no alternative. School classes face-to-face is the best form of teaching for students in educational, psychological and sociological terms but in normal conditions. Since this is not the case at the moment, the Ministry of Science and Education is doing what is only possible and everything with a goal and always to remember the protection of the health of all stakeholders of the educational process of pupils, their parents and teachers as a holder of the educational process, which is the organisation of teaching according to model B and to the school go from 1 to 4 grades of primary school and high school graduates to the possibility of preparing state graduation. This government, headed by Prime Minister Plenkovic, makes a huge effort to obtain vaccines, and I hope that soon everything will be much better in Banovina and all of Croatia, and that the vaccination and virus will disappear forever and that soon the teaching and joy of the school halls will be what will be adorned by our school institutions, thus allowing children and teachers to be much better and easier to adopt teaching content, and that the online teaching and all of this technology prepared by students will also be used but in a very small extent. All of this can happen if we stay solid and everyone does their part of the job. In the hive, the bee community has between 50,000 and 60,000 bees And there's always honey. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] And you know why there's honey? Because it's known who does what. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27554	Thank you very much. Now we're going to take a break again, and I'm asking you to air up more extra halls and we're going to continue working in at 15 and 45, as I was saying. It's 3:30. The next club of MPs will be that Mosta in the name of which the respected representative Miro Bulj will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27658	Dear citizens, folks, I'm not going to talk today about non-functioning national security, homeland security. I'm not going to talk about the stock reserves that show up in the threats that they're missing or that they're dysfunctional. I will not only talk about 2/3 of Croatia which I often say are forgotten and without the threats we have and that it is not only the centre of the Republic of Croatia City of Zagreb. This time I'm going to talk about Brodotrogir workers. And this isn't their first time. I have this obligation to say as a child worker and difficult. Put yourself in the position of your colleague and colleague that you do not receive salary for 6 months and that at the same time one rude tycoon Danko Končar, with the silence of the competent institutions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, allow the judicial authorities not to pay these people for their work. In Brodotrogir, which employs 2 thousand people, in Brodotrogir, which Danko Končar took from the state in 2013, with the obligation to make out of a thousand and 300 workers half of them pay for what the government has paid him, and half of them remain to work. He, meanwhile, founded nine companies, nine companies. There's only one pay in Brodotrogir where his listeners are. He destroyed Brodotrogir, destroyed the future of Brodotrogir's development because it's not just tourism down there that matters. There were people from the backwaters, from Zagor, who created new values for both us and their families. The failure to pay the respected Prime Minister Plenkovic does not pay not only that it is punishable, but it is a crime of the highest level both by God and by man and I do not know by which ideology. It's not enough, it's not enough just to tell today's MPs to a colleague who says certain parts of Brodotrogira work, it's not true. Danko Končar buys hotel complexes and these Brodotrogir workers who have invested their lives in creating shipbuilding as a development branch in the Republic of Croatia, he turns the export industry into workers who restore its hotels and which he does not pay. In 2018, as Government, he fulfilled all obligations. Of 300 workers, i.e. 250 doesn't receive more than 2/3 of the salary. So my people, my people, we put ourselves in the skin of those people who had no pay for Christmas, and Danko Concar and his lawyers, with his deep state, is protected as a bear. All the occupiers unfortunately didn't do as much damage to the Turks here, misery, humiliation as is happening to our workers, in this case to the Brodotrogirs. Whose interest is that? It's obviously an interest to get involved, and I figured the mayor of Trogir's SDP would be involved, and the SDP brought him in. As mayor of Trogir, he was on the Supervisory Board while Danko Končar was until he became mayor. Half the management family, boards. I was really thinking... to engage in good faith because I first attacked it when I heard it. [[You don't understand.]] I didn't attack, but I asked the mayor, Ante Sanader, all those people down there who are politically powerful to help get rid of Brodotrogir, and help and find a solution to see if there's a fair restructuring agreement, and it's not. The money was given by the state. Brodotrogir is very important in the development of this area. No one's doing anything. So he bribed the blood of those workers and their children that they can't pay for. The prime minister is ashamed after this representative's response today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27834	We now begin by asking questions to the Government, or to an individual member of the Government, in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, these are Articles 132.-139. The current morning shall be held at the beginning of each session before the first item of the agenda. The first in line for asking questions today is a respected colleague, Vladimir Bilek. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I'm sorry, colleague Peovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27835	Here, like this. The Rules of Procedure have been injured. The 132nd century, according to which all representatives who are not organised at the club have the right to ask questions, and by one political party representative who are not organised at the club, has the right to ask a question, you have right to refuse some MPs, so two MPs have lost their right to ask questions, these questions would only increase by 2 so it wouldn't be too much damage, and what they want to tell the MPs is Apparently, they're representatives of the second row. [[Intruder: Thank you very much, time is up.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27836	Thank you very much. So, fellow Members, it's not like you said, there's an art. 132., I will now read it to you, the current morning is held at the beginning of each session of the Parliament before crossing to the 1st point of the agenda. During the current morning, MPs organised at representatives clubs may ask a total of 40 questions, and independent representatives who are not elected on the political party list, representatives of national minorities who are not organised in a club of representatives and one representative of political parties who do not have a club of representatives may ask a question at each other's session. So this is something that we introduced in the last amendment to the Rules of Procedure, and before that, independent MPs couldn't even ask a question. So, one step has been made, no, I'm not going to pollemize, I'm just going to explain that in the way you imagine, then everyone could declare themselves an independent agent, so 151 questions would be asked, you're being treated here as independent advocates, and each of you, every other time you can ask a question.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27837	Okay, s Since I'm not happy with the answer, I'm going to ask [[Intruder: Collars.]] The Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system to give an opinion on this breach of the Rules of Procedure because I claim that it is political, per agent, political parties, very precisely [[Intruder: You can.]] He's standing in the Rules of Procedure. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27838	Thank you very much. This is your interpretation, you can then ask the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system to give you clarification. We now return to the current morning, first in line representative Vladimir Bilek. Find a colleague, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27839	Thank you. I'd point out, too, that the officer was injured. Rules of Procedure 134 which reads: The questions of independent representatives who are not elected on the list of political parties and representatives of national minorities, and of one political party who does not have a club of representatives, shall be put first and any further place on the list whose regular number is divisible by number 5 and according to the order drawn from other issues. So if only one non-club agent has the right to ask a question, the question is, how, what is this definition and everyone who is divisible by 5?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27840	You can also contact the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system All right, the board's gonna show up. [[Intruder: That's right, I'm asking for this committee to be manifested.]] So, here, now finally, colleague Bilek, you're going to ask the minister of spatial planning, construction and state property of Darko Horvato. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27841	Thank you very much, esteemed president of HS. Dear Croatian Prime Minister, Vice-Presidents, ministers and distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Well, after a major earthquake last year in the wider area of the city of Zagreb, Covida-19 and all the challenges, we were hit at the very end by a huge accident, another catastrophic earthquake in the Sisak-Moslavina County and a series of minor tremors in which many buildings were killed, and unfortunately human lives were lost. Immediately after the coup in providing assistance in the affected area, firefighters, military, HGSS, civil protection, many citizens and volunteers were involved, and within just a few hours in the affected area there was the whole state summit. We hope that the worst is behind us, and now we have a great challenge in restoring primarily residential houses, infrastructure, but also objects in which the headquarters are institutions, economic facilities, and all in order to normalise in the area of Sisak-Moslavina County. Since the last days in public and media areas have been heard from various information about the procedures or how the renovation will take place, my question asked by the Minister of Spatial Planning, Construction and State Property is that they will be handled and the extent to which the state will assist in the restoration of family houses and residential facilities that have received red, yellow or even green stickers, and where the damage has been found and whether owners of objects that have received, for example, the yellow label can go on their own and get a certain refund from the state? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27842	Here's the Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27843	Thank you, esteemed president of HS. Your Honor, MP. Here's the latest information, and finally with yesterday, in earthquakes that occurred after 28th and 29th of December, the damage was either reported to 42.037 objects. A team of statisticians organized at the Croatian Earthquake Engineering Centre, which we formed after the earthquake in Zagreb with yesterday's day, reviewed the 20.001 reported facility. Marks that are glued to the examined objects of green, yellow and red are the preliminary identifier to which the building is damaged. So on those on which the beautiful green stamp at this time is possible emergency interventions of the building or house in question very quickly qualify for housing. The yellow stamp is a stamp on those buildings that require a detailed examination and after a detailed examination, the waist will say whether emergency interventions in them can or cannot be settled. Red stamps are stamps in which it is not recommended, but where it is suggested that these spaces are not currently safe to live, and some of them will have to collapse. So after emergency interventions some of the red buildings will be possible, I'll say turn into yellow. Why? Because emergency interventions will remove those threats that make that building red. Like a stairway recovery, a chimney recovery or some other things that are creating a threat to an uncertain life at the moment. What is important to say, all these buildings will have to, therefore, be given their own elaborate of found state in which all the necessary tests will be included in order for an authorised designer to make a decision in which direction to follow the renewal. What we are somehow suggesting at this point is that a large part of the damage reported is such that they are simply torn down or will have to collapse for residents of such areas, so those whose home or family home will have to be destroyed by law that treated the same situation in the Zagreb area, Zagreb County and the Krapina-Zagorje County for such buildings, or their owners, the state will find a replacement house or replacement apartment on its own cost. So, the polemics that are being led today for all those in the earthquake area affected by the earthquake that destroyed the property to the ground that, even after the construction of the elaborates, it will not be able to establish that it is suitable for recovery, a new house will be built, or a new replacement housing solution will be sought in a 100% state amount. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27844	Here's your colleague, Bilek.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27845	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. Well, I'm glad it worked out that those people who unfortunately lost their homes permanently in terms of having red stickers that won't be able to renew that the state will enter with a 100% investment in terms of providing space to those families for life, that's primarily important and we hope that it will be resolved as soon as possible and as soon as possible. Of course, as for those residential objects where yellow stickers are located, where you unfortunately said, and this is a large part of 42.037 objects that have reported damage, it is necessary to first preliminaryly control their statused statisticians, I hope that there will be a detailed review there soon so that we can have elaborates and that those people who, along with some minor repairs, can return to their homes as soon as possible and get into their facilities as soon as possible because we know that the wider area is both Sisak and Petrinja and Gline, or settlements such as Javenik or I don't know family houses like those of the Vrabenec family, the Taker in Sisak or the Novosel family, Šubić in Zupić are waiting for a thorough, detailed review to take place to be restored. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27846	The second issue, MP Marin Mandaric, will be asked by tourism and sports ministers Nikola Brnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27847	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, ma'am. Minister. Here we are witnessing the release of the second wave of the pandemic, we see that the anti-epidic measures imposed by the government, obviously yield results, I would just remind you that for these measures we have paid and paid a high price as a society as a whole, as an economy, our GDP pays the price of that, the state budget pays the price of that, as well as the budget and other units of local and regional self-government. We also know how the whole Corona situation affected last year's tourist season and tourist traffic, and we also know how much this tourist traffic makes up the total GDP of the Republic of Croatia, so I wonder what it looks like and what the main activities are in preparation for this year's tourist season? What are the announcements from the big world tourist fairs? And already when I have the opportunity to ask you a question as I come from the continent, from Slavonia, from the heart of Slavonia, from Đakov, I also have to look back at the continental tourism that hands to the heart, makes a small part of the total tourist traffic, but I am convinced that in this continental tourism lies the largest space for progress, so I am interested in what I can expect from this, we will again have a challenging and demanding tourist year 2021.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27848	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27849	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Thank you very much, Your Honor. So, as you said yourself, for this tourist year, the most important thing is safety. That is why the Ministry has launched and set up its own security protocols, so by assigning national security protocols, this has been done therefore according to the recommendations of the World Council for Travel and Tourism and, of course, with the upgrade of the HZJZ. All of this was done in coordination with the Tourism Council, so all of the stakeholders of the tourism sector, along with the development of the protocol and the Ministry of Tourism and Sports, will assign everyone in the tourism sector, so from the hotel, restaurants, nautical marinas, OPGs, so all stakeholders will have one national security mark. This tag will be controlled, and we have introduced mechanisms of self-control, which will also work for the Ministry of Tourism and Sports at ad hoc level and also through the very associations that are involved in the advice. The Association will also conduct trainings for all those stakeholders involved and who will request one such mark that additionally gives tourists additional respect and in which way all protocols are respected with respect to safety standards and measures themselves. So that label itself will be free of charge and we'll start it soon in a week, two issues. It will also be monitored not only by the Ministry and the Association, who respects the security measures and protocols themselves on a website on which all the stakeholders who are users of the label will be able to report the situation in a particular tourist facility. We will also enable a higher standard of respect for security protocols during the tourist season itself. As for the fairs, as you yourself said, the fairs of course because of the epidemiological situation did not take place, the last ones we attended through video links was the fair in London, this year we have indications that they are moving precisely because of the epidemiological situation fairs are being delayed and we will see, of course, we will be present in any form, they are being organised. As far as continental tourism itself is concerned, one of the main objectives, so the Ministry of Tourism and Sports itself is precisely the development of continental tourism and the sustainable development of the entire tourist system both on the coast and on the continent, and we will certainly also include the Ministry for the first time in all operational groups for the development of operational programmes in new programming and will certainly be placed on the development of continental tourism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27850	There you go, the obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27851	Here's your thanks, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, I believe that, as I said, in this demanding 2021, you will be at the height of the task, I understand that it is difficult to predict everything that will happen by the summer that is our central part of the season, that at the end of this year, we will be able to realize that in the given circumstances we have been successful and I am pleased to hear that the Ministry is systematically and strategically considering the development of continental tourism, so that I am looking forward here and the period ahead, we are going to raise this continental tourism together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27852	Now MP Mladen Karlic will ask Minister of Health William Beros, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27853	Thank you, Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable President of the Croatian Government, the Honorable Vice-Presidents, ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Here's my question, Mr. Minister William Berosh, of course, is about this pandemic of ours with the coronary virus. Since we've already been ten months. Every day by all the media informed to the details of the situation, about the number of infected, about the number of hospitalized, dead and all others, it seems better than the weather forecast, of course all citizens are involved and somehow the health care came to the top somehow of everyone's interest. What I am pleased is that Croatia now has a good trend at this time and that we are becoming the best in the Eu after the biggest fall of the newly infected, what it would like to point out, so a month ago we were towards the media among the worst, but here thanks to all these good, moderate epidemiological measures taken by the Croatian Government, headquarters, we have an extremely good trend of the decline of the number of infected, dead, people on the respirator, and that's very good. And of course, the question arises when we're going back to normal life, that's what all citizens want as soon as possible. So it's time to go slowly and think about giving in to measures, but what I would ask me, what I would ask Mr. Minister, what to do with this new strain of virus, what to do with it, what to me, what to do with it, what to do with this new strain of virus, what to do with it. The British virus that's spreading faster, which is more contagious, how do you stop it from happening to us that third wave so it doesn't get worse? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27854	Here you go, Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27855	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. Parliamentary Representative, that 330th day since the start of the epidemic in the Republic of Croatia and our epidemiological situation at this point is satisfactory. According to the latest official ECDC data, from 10.1. of this year, the average incidence of 14 days per 100,000 inhabitants was 367.42 yesterday was slightly smaller and was around 288. We're recording a 29% decline compared to the previous week, but that's also just about the newly infected. We're also recording a hospitalized drop, so the burden on the health system is less. What remains not well is a relatively high rate of particularly cumulative mortality, which currently stands at 1.117 per million inhabitants. However, the mortality rate always follows the fall of newly infected 3 to 4 weeks after we begin to record the fall. What's the fact that we're standing well epidemiologically at this point, but we need to be careful. You yourself said that a new strain of the virus also appeared in Europe for this reason, and also because many countries that until a few weeks ago were a model and an extremely good epidemiological state have never seen worse results. It's all driving us to be careful. The fact that this epidemiological situation is achieved by the responsible behaviour of citizens, but also by the adherence of measures, since when it comes to the relaxation and release of measures, we must take into account not only the number of newly infected but also from the above, some other elements, which is the existence of a new strain of virus, an epidemiological situation in the surrounding countries, the fact that we are in a winter period that suits the spread of the virus. Furthermore, the fact that increased mobilisation and mobility of Croatian citizens are expected these weeks because of their annual vacations being completed, starting the school for the first to fourth and for our graduates. All of these are reasons why we need to be still careful and some kind of sudden drop in measures I don't think there would be any options. What should be done, as so far, day by day, to monitor the epidemiological situation, balance with all measures, from day to day to day, to monitor what measures they are and what effect they have and which could potentially be relaxed given the emerging situation. So our citizens, in a way, both economically and socially, begin to live a better life. When it comes to the new strain or variants of the virus, we have already taken certain measures relating to the crossing of the state border and all those citizens and passengers coming from those countries that are currently affected by the emergence of a new strain of the virus also have the obligation to attach a PCR test, but also the quarantine resulting. The Croatian Institute of Public Health on a daily basis therefore monitors the incidence, incidence and new variants of the virus and changes our list of countries from which these rules apply. In any case, we have no choice but to continue to consider an intense epidemiological situation on a daily basis, to monitor developments in the surrounding countries and to adapt our decisions. If it will come, and will surely come at some point to relax, it will certainly be gradual and adapted to the current epidemiological situation. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27856	Thank you, Minister. Here's your testimony, counselor.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27857	Thank you, Mr. Secretary, for your reply. What's most important to me is that the measures were epidemiologically extremely well balanced, that we never had a curfew, I don't think it brought anyone any good effect or complete closure, and I just think that the responsibility of the citizens has proved to be extraordinary in these months, and some way a slight reduction of measures might be rewarding the citizens for what they've done in these last two months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27858	Fourth in line for MP Ivan Celjak, questions will be asked by Minister of Spatial Planning, Construction and State Property Darko Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27859	Thank you, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Ministers and Ministers today, in the area of Sisak-Moslavina County, in the area of Sisak, Gline, Petrinja and other parts, we were awakened by the earthquake again. From 28.12. to today, we've experienced nine hundred earthquakes. The most destructive one unfortunately took human lives, destroyed homes, houses, everything people have built all these years. Today, part of my systolic, petri dish, clay is found in containers. And I'm here today as a parliamentary representative, as well as a Sistian, as someone who can't justify his inner feelings for his city, for his mammals. Sisak is a city of Croatian victories and has given a great deal through history for the Republic of Croatia. In the Homeland War, many families lost their loved ones. The Rehabilitation Act is good, in the section relating to Sisak is unspeakable and therefore I ask you whether Sisak has been unfairly left out of 100% of the financing of renovations in full? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27860	Here's the minister's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27861	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Parliamentarian, I respect your concern for every resident of Sisak-Moslavina County from which you come, especially for residents of the town of Sisak. I thank you for that concern and for the message to all citizens of Sisak-Moslavina County, all residents of the town of Sisak. No one has been forgotten by this government, and no one will be left or left to themselves in a housing segment. What is the fact is that one part of Sisak-Moslavina County is located in the so-called so-called ‘Moslavina County’. Supported areas because of some parameters which are European standards, are not here on the table because only Croatia wants them, these are criteria that are known, recognized and we are obliged to comply with them in the EU-wide space. But what is a clear message to your Sisheni, all those whose houses have been destroyed, all those with whom apartments in multi-state buildings have been destroyed to the extent that houses or multi-state buildings in which they live will have to be destroyed, the state will either find or build a replacement apartment or a house in a 100%-ton amount. I don't think there are any clearer or clearer messages from the Croatian government and not asking for the cost, it was, it was an attitude from the very first moment. In the segment of those housing units in which we will have to resuscitate the construction or total renewal or the house or multi-state building, the criteria known in the draft law and these criteria will also be released from the payments of 20% of the amounts payable by residents and other earthquakes affected if their income, including the income of the spouse or extra-marital second or income of the living partner on 22 March does not exceed the amount of non-taxable income and if it did not have other significant assets on that day more than 200.000 kuna, if the person with disabilities who proves his status is valid documents by the competent authorities in accordance with the direction of the Minister responsible for social care affairs, if since 22 March, therefore, the earthquakes that occurred in the Sisak-Moslavina County area after 28. lived in the joint household with the social care which he recognised him. So, I've mentioned several times so far, I don't want that controversy through public space anymore, all those who are weaker property status, all those who don't cross this income threshold, pensioners and unemployed, won't be able to or won't need a single The kuna participate in the restoration. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27862	Thank you. Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27863	Thank you very much for your response, Minister. I object to public communication, and I believe that we have these days and communicated that we can find models that would satisfy Sishken and Sishken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27864	Let's go to Question 5, Commissioner Karolina Vidovic Kristo will refer him to Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27865	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Plenkovic, 4 September 2020 I've asked you a question about possible tax evasion by your regime tycoon Emil Tedesti, which I didn't get an answer to, even though you're obliged to answer within 30 days. You are knowingly violating the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of HS. I also wrote you a memo that you didn't answer. You're actually saying that the laws don't apply to you, they only apply to ordinary citizens. In accordance with your political logic, and through political influence, you chose Ivan Turudic as the president of the high court, a man with a lengthy record of scandals that proved his incompetence as the president of the county court. What will your Director Janaf Dragan Kovacevic's trial look like when it is known that Turudic's sister worked for Janaf? The Croatian judiciary has the lowest credibility in the eyes of its citizens from all EU member states. This unbelief contributes to your government through the protection of open corruption as in the case of Krš-Padena, which, as a consequence, foreign investors bypass Croatia because in a country where the executive authority so openly violates laws, and the judiciary does not react, capital will not enter. My question is, are you aware that the influence on the judiciary and the prevention of the work of the judiciary are criminal acts?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27866	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27867	Thank you very much. Ma'am. Vidović Kristo, look at the better answers sent to you from the cabinet session, and then you will see that this question that you mentioned in the written form is addressed to you, it is good that the public knows the other MPs. As for the election of judges, Croatia long ago, I don't know if you followed it, left the concept where politics decides who chooses judges. For this there is DSV, and the only politicians in the DSV are one representative of the position and one representative at a time. If you missed it, you probably missed it because you were not directed either to the accession negotiations process, nor to the reform we had taken in the judiciary, it is good to inform yourself of that and that the public knows that it would not accidentally remain the impression that some policy, let the government appoint a judge to the Republic of Croatia, as well as the judge you mentioned here now. As for judicial reform, strengthening judicial independence, this is the fundamental objective of policy and our government and the work of the Minister of Justice, Minister of Administration, in all segments and we will work on it as well as the fight against corruption. On this side of your questions that seem to me to be more like some rhetorical escapades I don't know if you need any more concrete answers, but listening to your performances here in HS what I'm noticing is that you're very fast on the information you're quick to label, you're quick to call people on a national basis, on a stick-up label, on the title of our government by some Chetnic coalition, it's all your great contribution to the culture of dialogue and public discourse in the Republic. Since you are in the Parliament, we are delighted, we are enriched with your initiatives, Croatia is becoming more tolerated, the atmosphere is better, people have more confidence and indeed you are making an immeasurable contribution to the culture of the work of MPs in HS. Your invitation to the people or to the elite, I see you're also often talking about it, is kind of thesis and thesis about the deep state, so I have to admit that they're so much dog, they're so licked, they're so uninventional, so unoriginal that I'm really surprised who might even believe in your thesis. I don't know if you write them yourself or if someone's helping you, but they're not impressive at all, and they're even less useful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27868	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27869	Mr. Plenkovic, arrogance is primarily rude, but it is also a reflection of the character of instability. Of course, I'm not happy with the answer, but I won't insult anyone. My goal is a just and rich Croatia based on the truth and rule of law. A vast majority of Croatian citizens, international institutions, international investors, the European Commission knows that the Croatian judiciary is not independent. Knowers of Croatian opportunities or better to say, the troubles know that your judiciary is permeated by the influence of the Libyan deep state co-ordinated by your chief adviser, Vladimir Seks. In your judiciary, JNA lawyers are the main players. From Constitutional Court President Miroslav Šeparovic to State Secretary at the justice ministry Jura Martinovic. You showed your influence on the judiciary when you brought former State Attorney Cvitan to a press conference in front of the Croatian public, and on the second day, MP Tomislav Sacha left the SDP and approached your ruling majority. We now see that the current case is of Agent Vinko Grgic. I wonder if, given your influence on the judiciary, he will end up in your ruling majority. Every abuse, and that teaches us history, doesn't end well. You are destroying the legal order and impoverishing the Croatian nation with these abuses. All democratic and free-thinking people have a fight against it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27870	Let's go to Question 6, MP Maria Jelkovac, he's being asked by Justice and Administration Minister Ivana Malenica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27871	Thank you very much, esteemed president of HS, I would like to refer my question to the Minister of Justice and Administration. Dear Ministers, Regulation of the EU Council on the implementation of enhanced cooperation in relation to the establishment of the European Public Office... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27872	... Keep going. [[Specially enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27873	Thank you very much. As regards the establishment of the European Public Prosecutor's Office, therefore, a European Public Prosecutor's Office has been established to investigate and prosecute fraud in the EU and other criminal offences that threaten the financial interests of the Union. In October 2019, the European Parliament confirmed Mrs. In July 2020, the Council appointed European prosecutors. However, I am still looking forward to the Commission's decision on the precise start of the work of the Office itself, and I am interested, since we here in December last year, that is, at the end of the session in the last session, have adopted in the emergency procedure the law implementing the regulation, what have we also done to select the delegated European prosecutors? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27874	Minister, here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27875	Thank you very much, President. I'd like to thank the honourable MPs for asking. So, as you pointed out, a regulation on the implementation of enhanced cooperation in connection with the establishment of the European Public Prosecutor's Office was adopted. On the basis of this Regulation, the Office of the European Public Prosecutor was established as an independent body responsible for the prosecution, investigation and prosecution of cases, therefore, of criminal offences in which the financial interest of the Union was violated. So it's about criminal acts of fraud, then cross-border fraud and corruption. Therefore, the purpose and purpose of the Office of the European Public Prosecutor at the centralised level, but also at the decentralised level, of bringing charges and prosecutions before the competent courts of the Member States. Therefore, this Regulation also created an obligation for the Republic of Croatia to adopt a law which would constitute a legal basis for this decentralised level, which is the Office of the European Public Prosecutor, a delegated public prosecutor in the Republic of Croatia and, in that sense, the Ministry of Justice has drawn up a proposal, i.e. a draft law implementing the Regulation on enhanced co-operation with regard to the establishment of the Office of the European Public Prosecutor, which was voted here in the HS and entered into force on 28 December. The Ministry of Justice also adopted a Regulation on the terms and procedures of proposing candidates for delegated European public prosecutors, so that they can appoint two prosecutors here in the Republic of Croatia who will therefore carry out investigations under the Office of the European Public Prosecutor, but also prosecution and bring charges before the competent judicial authorities here in the Republic of Croatia. That Regulation entered into force on 15 December. The DORH has issued a public invitation for candidates and here, I believe that by the end of the month, that the DORH will implement this procedure and that we will propose two delegated European public prosecutors who, as we have mentioned, should start working on the basis of the decision of the European Public Prosecutor. As for the activities of the Ministry of Justice and Administration, that our activities relate to technical and organisational conditions so that the Office of Delegated Prosecutors may start here in the Republic of Croatia. So, the space is secured, it will be in the building of USKOK, also, is secured and, all necessary equipment is provided so that these two delegated European public prosecutors can start working, as well as all administrative support. So according to data, one of the reasons why it started with the establishment of the European Public Prosecutor's Office is that, according to data from over 50 billion euros in Member States' budgets, those who disappear on the basis of some circular fraud which will be prevented by the establishment of this European Public Prosecutor's Office and I believe that through this institution we will preserve, therefore, the rights and interests of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and also continue to fight corruption and organised crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27876	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27877	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I am pleased with your answer, or what you have already taken, in fact in this short period since the very entry into force of the law that we passed in December. This proves that we are a responsible member of the EU and that we are responsible for both the state and our citizens first and foremost, and that in the future everything that is in the interest of fighting corruption and crime, we will urgently establish all institutions related to protecting our fellow citizens, but we are also showing to this end that we are also a responsible member of the EU that helps in this way and in protecting the interests of the EU. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27878	The 7th question will be asked by representative Marija Selak Rasdic and will be referred to Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27879	Dear Prime Minister. Until today, the purchase of medical equipment, goods and services to combat the coronary virus has been excluded from the application of the Public Procurement Act. If the confidentiality mark was purchased under the Public Procurement Act and could be justified, after several months of stabilising the global market for demand and offers for this equipment, why is this big deal still being done outside the Public Procurement Act? I am also interested in what criteria is already being implemented by the mass promotional action of politicians through order that does not stop with us not to the prime minister, the president and possibly ministers, as well as in most European countries, but over the order of honored vaccines and parliamentary representatives, and now we see the announcement of the public vaccination of Mayor Cacic and the Varazdin County Councillors over 65 years of age? Why does a 66-year-old county councilman take precedence over some 90-year-old with much more fragile health? Will this action of honor vaccination continue at the level of the mayors of municipalities, municipal councillors and members of the local committee? Also, the public deserves to know on the basis of which and on the basis of which an estimate is a certain amount of vaccine to be ordered and who will be responsible if a large surplus of unused vaccine occurs, i.e. The gap between the acquired vaccine and the needs or interests of the citizens behind it? Finally, given what recently happened, which is that from five doses in one vial, we managed to get six doses of vaccines, we're interested in who negotiated these contracts so that pharmaceutical companies can change the terms of the contract on their own? Do all EU members have the same prices for the vaccine or the prices depend on what kind of needles are used in which country? What are you doing at EU level to make current secret contracts with pharmaceutical companies transparent? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27880	Prime Minister, here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27881	Thank you very much. Representative Selak Rasudic. This is some day reading parliamentary questions in the Assembly, but we can do it well. As for public procurement, you will remember in early February and March that the protective equipment was nowhere to be obtained, I suppose you remember that, Croatia itself for this kind of epidemic declared by the Minister of Health, WHO has declared the world a pandemic, has not had enough protective equipment, masks, different protective suits for healthcare professionals, social workers, visas, names of whatever you want. How did we get that protective equipment? You know how? So I personally spoke to the Chinese Prime Minister and arranged for the delivery of protective equipment in quantities that at no time for almost a year did not leave Croatian doctors, nurses, social workers, civil protection, police officers or you here without protective equipment and that equipment comes systematically. I will ask Minister Coric to come to his office, go to talk to the people who deal with the stock reserves, who deal with the purchase of protective equipment, and that he gives you an insight into everything that's been done there, all to see how many planes have come, how many tons, and at what price it has been obtained. So there's no hiding, there's no reason why you as a parliamentary representative don't find out, though. It's about public procurement. As far as vaccines are concerned, so we have made it very clear in the vaccination strategy or the plan proposed by the Ministry of Health and the HZJZ what the priorities are, or who the priorities are. Priorities are those that are the most endangered, so our fellow citizens of the elderly, fragile health, people who are in nursing homes and those who are the most exposed, and are the most exposed, of course, healthcare professionals, those who work in social institutions, and they are the priority ones, and that is what the data on the current course of vaccinations are said to ensure that they are vaccinated in this first wave of doses. The President of the Republic sent a message that he wanted to vaccinate to prove his trust in the vaccine, as did those ministers who were vaccinated about two weeks ago. The fact that there is an HS and I personally believe that HS as a representative institution of the Croatian people is equally valuable, if not more valuable than the Government or president and that MPs should be given the right to split. Whether or not any of you are going to take advantage of that opportunity that was offered, it's up to you, we finally saw it during yesterday. As for the others, according to the vaccination plan, they are not envisaged, nor is it the government's political will, nor is it some orchestrated action on the ground. As it happens that certain local officials are inoculating, I will ask the health minister to see with HZZ and with the county public health services. As for the dose of the vaccine, 5.6. the global concentration for the Pfizer vaccine, if it is an extra dose, will donate them to us dear and friendly countries as will be done by most EU members. And we ordered like everyone else to make sure at the right time. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27882	Thank you. Here's an indication, counselor.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27883	Dear Prime Minister, I'll start with the last one. You can donate something that is yours and donate without the consent of Croatian citizens, you cannot do anything that is theirs and public funds are theirs. So it would be more useful if you had a plan based on which you're getting, not that, but that you're thinking about the surpluses that you're potentially going to donate. As far as public procurement is concerned, I'm not here, nor am I elected here to take your word for it, or go for a walk in certain offices, and then find out what was obtained there. You are here as well as I am to follow the positive regulations, to follow the Croatian law and to use the Public Procurement Act when you are getting medical equipment and not informing me that everything is fine beyond the public procurement law, which will obviously continue to be a practice. I would like to remind you that the report by a special UN rapporteur on the right of all to enjoy the highest standards of physical and mental health achieved in 2017 states that health in many countries is among the most profitable and corrupt sectors. In this sense, our legal experts have already warned that the fight against the crown of the virus can be highly linked to corruption. I will also remind you that in Slovenia, already one of the countries that started the investigation into public procurement in the purchase of medical equipment during the first wave of coronas, and the Slovenian minister offered his resignation in time and the government was increased due to the corruption investigation. I'm supposed to assume that we have everything beyond the public eye that's ideal. I would like to remind you that, according to research, corruption in Slovenia is half as small as in Croatia. So how is that possible? Taking into account the corruption history of some of your ministers, mayors and mayors, which is enough to state the last case from Požega, we can rightly suspect that the bypassing of public procurement laws hides someone's private interests. Already a summer review of the procurement companies reveals the nieces of some prominent HDZs and the real analysis is yet to follow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27884	The eighth question will be asked by MP Davor Ivo Stier and will be referred to by the Minister of Culture and Media, Nina Obulen Koržinek, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27885	Thank you, Mr. President. Last week, parliamentary representatives received a letter from the director of the library in Petrinja, in which we were informed of the need to protect the storage of 44 000 books, and this memo encouraged me to ask you ministers, not only about this case but about what the ministry is doing, which makes the government in the protection of our cultural institutions, our cultural heritage, including, of course, those sacral ones. We will all agree that today's priority is to find, provide safe accommodation for all who are affected by this earthquake but we also want to save or return to that end of life, and this cultural institution certainly has one very important role to play.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27886	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27887	Thank you, Mr. Stier. Yes, the truth is, at this point, the priority of course was for the entire government and for everyone involved to take care of and accommodate people, but right from day one we started all the actions because the damage to cultural heritage in cultural institutions is huge, that I am not picking them up now,... communication was the most injured center of Petrinja, however, both Sisak and Glina and Kostanica but also Zagrebačka and Karlovac County on cultural goods, the damage is all the way to Varazdinska, Bjelovarsko-Bilogorska County, so really great and devastating damage. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We immediately formed teams after the earthquake and last week more than 40 conservatives from all over Croatia listed complete damage, this week the damage is processed and evaluated so that we are quickly prepared for that part of the Application of the Solidarity Fund relating to cultural heritage. I've made two important decisions, we've made a decision on the deployment and support, so on the emergency procurement of heavy skeletons to support those monuments that can still be saved, as well as the decision on ways of removing parts of buildings that need to be broken down and which are dangerous for the population, parallel to that were made emergency evacuations of movable and cultural heritage, so sacral, world inventory, we've restored the fast museum in Sisak so that it can receive world inventory, in the bishop's court there are sacral, part of the ethnographic department in the conservation department in Sisak, or it will be located in Ludbreg. I also thank this Italian colleague, Minister Fraceschini, who directed blue helmets, Italian blue helmets for cultural heritage that helped us in buildings that were insecure and helped evacuate works of inventory. We started what is very important, and I especially point out that for Petrinja in which the damages are devastating on all buildings in the cultural and historical unit with the preparation of the renewal documentation, we will be guided by the good experiences of post-war reconstruction of Vukovar, and there we will engage all our experts, digitise all the documentation that exists and to answer this particular question about the petrinian library, books cannot be approached, but the books are not threatened because the building does not threaten the collapse and threaten the risk of therefore destroying the books, so it is estimated that at this moment it is not a priority to replace those books because we do not have a place in which we could place them. As soon as we get that space, we'll see if those books are evacuated. We also began planning a special Bible - based library service so that we could cover those parts of the county that would not have access to books and libraries. In the end, I would like to say that this area in the Homeland War has indeed been seriously injured and a great deal of cultural heritage is then irrevocably lost, so with special sensitivity we are saving everything that has not been destroyed now, because as you yourself have said, it is a matter of identity and we see that all citizens, regardless of the difficult situation they are in, are extremely interested in and sensible about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27888	Here's your testimony, counselor.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27889	Thank you, Mr. President. I thank the Minister for her comprehensive response and support the activities made by the Ministry and Government in the preservation of cultural heritage which, as you said by the Ministers, indeed in great proportions damaged by this earthquake and not only on Banovina, although it is indeed the most, but here even in my Zagreb County in Samobor, for example. The church of the Franciscan monastery, 300 years old, has suffered very badly, and I'm just saying that we can see how much they really are in proportion to that damage, but once again I stress and support these activities that want to put culture first, not as some discipline that some minority, some elite, are dealing with, but really, once again, a broad understanding of culture as a way of life for a nation. And that's exactly what we want to protect, or in this area, in these areas affected by the earthquake, to return and strengthen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27890	The ninth question, Pedja Grbin's representative will ask the Prime Minister, Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27891	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Prime Minister, last year, Croatia indeed suffered a number of disasters that none of us expected and didn't want either, and I don't question the difficulties anyone faced last year, they were truly unexpected. In the first wave, especially after the earthquake that took place on 29.12.2020, it was necessary to ensure the evacuation of people, find temporary accommodation and secure a roof over the head. The failure must have been, but the time to determine them would be in the future, the priority was to help people. Just as the priority in these few weeks has been to help people, the priority in the days and months ahead is to restore them. That's why I have to ask you one question especially indicated by what your colleague, Minister Horvat, was saying this morning. Therefore, in the proposal for a Law on Reconstruction, it states in the assisted areas in which the disaster has been declared, the state will pay for the reconstruction from the state budget of 100%. Mr. Horvat said something else this morning. So I ask you to explain to me and to the MPs, but first of all, to the public. Will the reconstruction in the assisted areas be renewed or financed in the amount of 100% from the state budget, or is there a different formula that Mr Horvat spoke of this morning and, in particular, ask you to answer clearly whether these 100% refer to the citizens of Sisak? And second question, please, yesterday at a meeting of the Government, you made a decision on the write-off of directors for Sisak-Moslavina County and parts of Zagreb and Karlovac, but in the City of Zagreb for 10 months now we have people in containers who have recently received a power difference of 4,000 kuna. will you make a similar decision for [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Them? [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27892	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27893	Thank you very much, Mr. Grbin, and I congratulate you for not joining this year's reading as promoted by MPs Vidović Kristo and Selak Rasdic, who was proposed by Minister Obuljen at the initiative of the Ministry of Culture, and of course we adopted it at the Government. As for this year you described it as demanding, it was demanding and I keep saying it, everyone had a pandemic of Covida-19, and we had 2 devastating earthquakes of the one in Zagreb and the one in the area of Sisak-Moslavina County that further made life difficult for our fellow citizens. In all these difficulties, we have tried both with the legal framework and with concrete activities to help our citizens. Help those who have suffered the most, whose earthquakes have completely changed their lives. I will remind the Croatian public that since the earthquake that hit this Sisak-Moslavina County on December 29th, we made the first decision to declare the day of mourning, we have then made a solution in practically the last hours of closing the financial year a decision on the intervention aid of 120 million kuna, which was divided into units of local and regional self-government for emergency activities, and this was also the case for Karlovačka and part of Zagreb County. They made a decision on the compensation of volunteers, therefore to construction engineers who assess as statisticians and as experts on what condition the buildings are in. Then, we made a series of decisions like this yesterday that frees our citizens, or writes them off both electricity and gas and heat. We made a series of decisions for development and for the future. We've made decisions that there's no toll, there's not everything possible about the Ministry of Labour, one-time benefits, help, so there's no element, plus donations freed the VAT, hired all the services in the past days, and we're extremely grateful for the complementary activities of a series of our fellow citizens who helped. So that's all we've done. This morning, Minister Horvat answered the questions of some MPs interpreting the law field, so Sisak-Moslavina County is an assisted area, of course you know that. The town of Sisak is not, as I recall from the development index in the 6th grade of the category, which is why he and Agent Celjak made it very clear what the context of the state's protection is in the reconstruction of the buildings or houses of our Siscans. What I want to say is that tomorrow we will discuss changes to this law which I think has done well, and he has in some way taken into account other situations including the City of Zagreb. We are ready to help the Sisans in a maximum way, we do not want them to feel discriminated against other parts of the county, especially as there are most people there and probably most people, and probably by the number most damage. However, we need to find a system that is defensive, defensive and high-ranking citizens of Zagreb, a higher level of people in Chucherje, people in Kasina, Markuševec, Zapresic, in other parts of Zagreb, and ultimately we need to see how this architecture of this law will pass any tests that could later be on the agenda. I think there is space, especially since the earthquake is very likely that Sisak has destroyed so much that it is no longer the same when its development criteria have been established and together we find a solution that will go to meet and support citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27894	Thank you. A fellow coat of arms, before you are clear, we have a violation of the Rules of Procedure of Representative Selak Raspoudić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27895	........................................................................................... In 238, the distinguished prime minister calls on me and Parliamentarian Vidovic Kristo to do nothing by implying that something bad is what we read. I understand why he does it, because you have no answer to our question, the question of Croatian citizens how rich we are to donate medical equipment and why you still do not want to follow the Public Procurement Act. And to honor Master Plenkovic, that you read as much as I read and you would become a doctor of science, not just a master. You're not too late, go on.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27896	My colleague Selak Raspoudic, so you have abused the Institute of Injury of the Rules of Procedure. It is not forbidden to read, you can read your question and the obvious as it is not prohibited for the Prime Minister or a member of the government to say that you have read. So there was no breach of the Rules of Procedure, you used this to actually send a message to the Prime Minister and I will give you a warning. Let's move on now, that is, the colleague of the coat of arms is now the obvious. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27897	Thank you, Mr. President-in-Office. Dear Mr. Prime Minister. You spoke for four minutes, and on my two very specific questions, you didn't answer very specific questions. Today after this current morning, our fellow citizens and fellow citizens from Sisak-Moslavina County, and especially from the area of the town of Sisak, it is even less clear that they are waiting for them in the reconstruction. After your speech and speech, Mr Horvat is no longer clear to anyone what will be co-financed and in what extent. Dear Mr Plenkovic, I agree that we need to find a model, I agree that we should join forces and find a model that will be defensive and will ensure the equality of all our fellow citizens and citizens. But exactly what you said, Sisak and Sisak-Moslavina County, after this earthquake, is the most destructive instrument ever recorded in the Republic of Croatia, is really not the same, and that is why people in that area need far more help than perhaps elsewhere. However, you did not answer the question I referred to you about our fellow citizens and fellow citizens in the City of Zagreb. He only had a chance to talk and visit people living in containers for nearly 10 months, they had a difference in electricity because now they have to heat up, they have no other way than 4,000 kunas. In one case, the family has an income of 5,200 kuna, how will they pay for it? For this reason, I ask you to make the same decision as you made yesterday for the area of Bania for those of our fellow citizens and citizens in Zagreb who are in this situation. They live in containers, and their accounts fly to the sky. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27898	Thank you. Let's go to question no. 10 MPs Dragana Jeckov appoints him Deputy Prime Minister Boris Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27899	I thank the president of HS. Dear Vice President of the Croatian Government, Mr Milosevic. My question concerns the accommodation of people in the earthquake affected by Banja, as well as the restoration of the wider area. After the catastrophic earthquakes that hit the area of Bania, we all volunteered as we could and as we knew. I ask you to answer me using exact figures, how many people are in collective accommodations, how many people do not currently have accommodation and when will the renewal of the Croatian Deputy Prime Minister begin?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27900	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27901	Dear colleagues, thank you for asking. I wish I didn't have to talk to the current man about the consequences of this devastating earthquake. Unfortunately, the earthquake has occurred, and unfortunately it continues to shake. The earthquake caused human casualties, human lives were lost, large material damage was caused in the areas of the cities of Glin, Petrinja, Sisak, and the surrounding municipalities. For this reason, the government of the Republic of Croatia has declared a natural disaster and established an earthquake headquarters, but even before headquarters was established, even before a natural disaster was declared, so the same day the earthquake took place, it started with the housing of people in need, people affected by this devastating earthquake. The collective, various types of collective accommodations have been provided for all people affected by the earthquake, but people in the area have defined themselves and want to have accommodation as close as possible to their home as possible, as close to their family home and as close to their cattle as possible, to their goods that they care about. When we talk only about collective accommodation in the military in Petrinja, there are about 400 people in the Spa in Topusa and other locations in the earthquake affected areas. The Central State Office for Reconstruction and Housing has made available to all state dwellings and houses in the area to accommodate people, so far it is secured or located somewhere around 114 people. With regard to containers and mobile homes for which most people are assigned, more than 500 or over 500 mobile units have been set up, with the fact that we do not yet know the exact number of mobile units delivered through various private donations. Only yesterday were 42 mobile units set up, so any containers, any mobile homes. But to understand the scales, in order to realistically talk about the consequences of this earthquake, I will indicate the data I would like to compare with the earthquake that took place in the City of Zagreb, so with today almost 45,000 and 44,692 damages were reported on buildings, so nearly 45,000 objects were reported to have been damaged in this earthquake, of which a little less than 50% were currently reviewed. When compared to the City of Zagreb and the earthquake that took place in March last year, about 25,000 buildings were damaged in total. Here we have more than, so almost 20,000 more applications and it takes time to review it and our hardworking statisticians work day and night, over 300 of them and visit all applications and try to determine the real state of damaged objects by quick checks. I would mention just one more fact that the Croatian Red Cross has divided 467 tonnes of food and over 240,000 warm meals from the day of the earthquake to today. Here are 20 days after the earthquake, the draft law on earthquake recovery is in parliamentary procedure, and all MPs will have the opportunity to contribute to the recovery as much as possible, to move forward as soon as possible and to finish as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27902	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27903	I thank you for your response to the distinguished Croatian Deputy Prime Minister. I appeal to speed up all processes concerning accommodation of the people of Bania and, of course, to speed up the reconstruction processes. This should be done not only out of solidarity because of the earthquake that hit Bania, it should be done because it is an area of years-long or decades-old abandoned and neglected, and what representatives of the party to whom I belong, of course, have warned during all these years.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27904	Let's go to the 11th question, Agent Ivana Posavec Krivec will refer it to Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27905	I thank the Honorable President HS. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Government, we testify that the citizens of Croatia are constantly exposed to affairs of the ruling HDZ, which includes most recently real estate malfeasance. In particular, it is expressed in my Zagreb County where the results of the political trade of Kožić and HDZ have been visible in the last few months in the form of procedures designed to legalise the lawless building owned by the parliamentary representative and the president of the County Assembly of fellow Čička in the form of overpaid and scandalous migration of emergency medicine from the home of health to a private house in the residential quarter of the town of Velika Gorica. And it's all happening in the wake of the biggest health crisis we remember. The mentioned malversions are also expressed in terms of the business of two million kuna county companies from the tender agreed by the vice president of the county organisation and also the director of the two public companies. Prime Minister, these are the people you confirmed a few months ago at the leading posts of the HDZ county organisation. Are you really not able to impose quality standards in the conduct of your members and officials and to control such actions, or is it that the Prime Minister may have become acceptable to you, these are your people, these are no longer remains of the past and some old HDZ you have been building upon? Are you going to do something or are you going to tell us again as loud and clear as you normally do, I didn't know? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27906	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27907	Thank you very much. Representative Posavec Krivec, as far as his colleagues in Zagreb County are concerned, so I think that a few months ago, he explained extensively everything about his assets and his activities, whether there are any other concerns left, so you're so interested, I don't know. However, when it comes to your findings, I think you said that I approved these people or something like this, I guess you were thinking about what to give the HDZ president some power after someone was elected locally to approve it or not. I don't know what it's supposed to mean in your logic, maybe some agreement between your party president and the representative from the Janaf affair, which probably leaves the SDP, is whether, and we're pretending that this story doesn't exist, and you're not evacuating it now, and it's not that far from Zagreb County, it's only close to the Brod-Posavia County, so take a look at your yard a little bit and among your colleagues, and as far as HDZ is concerned, we're getting trust in the elections, you're with your aggressive rhetoric that lasted for months, so for months ended on those defeated along with another 10 parties 41 MPs, it's about a recording of the state of support of the Croatian people at a very recent moment. That was only six months ago. As far as our situation is concerned, we solve them all, all of them. For some we don't know, when we find out we're solving them, so it will be, this process will last, in any case we're on the right path, on the path of trust not only in HDZ, but trust in the institution and politics at all, and that's why I recently and opposed this wave of one creation of a general atmosphere of mistrust in institutions, in organisations like the Red Cross, or many others that are from a zero moment I would say work to help our citizens because these are all related topics. And as for the fight against corruption, the Minister of Justice recently spoke about an action plan, about strengthening all bodies dealing with it in an impartial, independent manner in accordance with our laws and the desire that all those who need to answer ultimately and respond. So there's no coverage, no exceptions, no untouchable. To whom it is so far unclear, to whom so far it is not clear that I believe it should be clear, and that is a message to those who expose themselves to public life that they are there to serve the public good, not to do anything to their own advantage outside the legal framework. And that message, I think, is crucial. And as for the SDP, look a little bit into your backyard, boast about your successes, and then deal with others because if you follow the path of your former party president in 3.5 years, you can be sure. So think about it when you do it like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27908	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27909	Well, my dear Prime Minister, I didn't expect you to answer anything other than what you just said. But I had a tendency to ask you this question precisely because of what you personally said to the Croatian public only a few days ago, when you boasted that you had extensive radar and filters and that in 3 seconds you knew who had an agenda and who was spinning you. Well, now you see, I don't understand how it went under that so-called radar of yours, Mato Čičak, to mention the head of the Rugvica municipality, the president of the Zagreb County Assembly who, as a substitute, entered the Parliament for Drazen Barisic, who also apparently passed under your extensive radar, this Mr. Čičak has abused the position, has succeeded beyond the law what other citizens cannot legalise in just a few days' time. In time you passed under that radar and others, you missed one Kuščević with his real estate, he is your current HDZ president on the island, one Tolusic passed you under that radar outside, with properties outside the legal gauges. Under the radar you also miss Mr. Žinić, the current mayor and chief of HDZ Sisak-Moslavina. Although Mr. Žinić earns 18,000 kuna a month, although he and his family own four other properties, three in Glina, one in Petrinja, the state provides him with housing at the price of 100 kuna. Mr. Prime Minister, he's been saying all this together, and he's suggesting that either you don't have as extensive radar as you're boasting or introducing a practice that you're proposing to HDZ officials who are responsible for your duties in the country. and various corruptions. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27910	Let's go to question 12th, Rada Boric will ask Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27911	Dear President of the Assembly Mr. Jandrokovic, respected to Prime Minister Plenkovic today is 3 weeks from the devastating earthquake in Banja, Banovina, may it be the only break unfortunately, not the people who have lost their roofs, I mean this linguistic breakup in Bani and Banovina that has started to divide us again, unfortunately. We have witnessed the mobilisation of a large number of citizens, a large number of citizens' initiatives and humanitarian organisations that have come to help the victims in the area, and they are there today and they will still be there. What concerns me and my question is how is it possible that this government has not made a decision that those humanitarian organisations that act in accordance with the humanitarian, humanitarian aid law are also acting in accordance with the foundation law for voluntary purposes, not being freed from VAT especially for goods, of course for goods and services donated to the affected area? In fact, it's only enough to take one example, for example. container. We know that because of the VAT, we have four containers, we could have five of them. Especially when we know, and we have a report that in the state supply supply of either 300 containers of 298 was only available 97 because others said it was used during the pandemic. A little bit of concern being that they write housing containers I don't know why they were supposed to be containers with kitchens and beds for triage, but that's another question. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27912	Time's up. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27913	Thank you, well-respected representative Boric. As for the numerous civil initiatives, spontaneous, all the people who came to Banovina to help the unhappy people, we said from day one that we were very grateful to them, and we said that such an expression of social solidarity was particularly positive for the atmosphere in society in cases of natural disasters such as 6.2 on Richter's earthquake, above all Sisak-Moslavina County and I want to say, once again, on behalf of the Government that we appreciate this effort, that he was complemented by all the activities that different institutions, the services of the state were doing, and I will repeat it again. There were also civil protection and Croatian police and the Croatian Army and the Red Cross and the HGSS and representatives of local authorities, different national intervention units, our firefighters. There were a number of other experts who assessed the condition of these damaged buildings and they contributed. And the volunteers and the caterers and the construction machinery, the cooks, everyone. They all did. And when given, then you should be happy that you give, which you can give. We got one single inquiry, like the party, and we said how much we donated, I won't even repeat it, and we never mentioned it again, and so did your colleagues here or members of the government. But we don't talk about it, everyone, and then make sure he's satisfied with what he's done right. That's the way we have to look at it together. On the other hand, I would also like to say that I appreciate the efforts of many of you who have also, in your own way, contributed or made a contribution. As for charities and trusts. So we opened this topic before, I think 5 or 6 or 10 days ago, and we asked the Minister of Finance to see what to do with those who are not in the VAT system, and then they don't fall under this decision that we also made, so that VAT donations that go here are released, is that possible under the legal framework and is it possible to give any other way. So far, as Government for such similar situations ex post we have made decisions and returned that amount, for example, to the An Rukavin Foundation initiative, so all the VAT that was charged in action, the Government donates it later and so I asked the Minister of Finance to see what can be done. As for your thesis on containers, therefore, it is true, Croatia in stock had a total of 297 containers, all together. We distributed more than 200 of those 297, more than 200 of them throughout Croatia to health institutions and they were not residential containers, they were mostly empty containers, through which people went through, either for a test on Covid or some other kind of triage or waiting room, depending on how it was used. At the same time, however, we ordered an additional 428 containers at this stage, which means they have beds and kitchens and sanitary knots, 206, 264 mobile homes have been delivered, of which 168 have already been delivered, and almost 80 more of them need to come, which is why we are trying to settle temporary accommodation for all those who need it. And there's a huge international aid of 270 containers that are announced, some have already arrived. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27914	There you go, the obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27915	Of course I agree with you in this first minute where you said who was really heart, knowledge, strength and determination to help people who were suffering, however, I did not get the right answer about why VAT was not reduced for those goods, or even for people who would renew their property that was tied up, of course, that it was bought for renovation. I find it a little incomprehensible that the government doesn't see that humanitarian organisations, through spending, create their own resources, in some ways reduce budget spending. We heard from Mr. Vice President today that only 45 containers came yesterday. Let's say, and Caritas complained that he could buy that 5th container if he was released from VAT. So we don't see why you did, and you yourself said in which cases you can get rid of VAT. In this way, the humanitarian organisations that have the right to do so, as well as the citizens who will use goods and services to restore their property, would have additional kind of support from us, and about the purchase of containers and what containers we have obtained, will then be, see the report that it is wrong to write there. Because it doesn't say on one side or we don't have regular containers, so we've shown them as residential or it doesn't make sense that residential containers serve triages on the ground. But it's for another debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27916	Now MP Kreso Beljak will question Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27917	Thank you very much, esteemed president of HS. The Honorable President of the Croatian Government. I would have a brief question about an action plan to reduce non-taxable and parafiscal givings which, in principle, my party and I support, so that, firstly, I believe that the name of the action plan should be changed because these are not non-taxable and parafiscal givings, but the immeasurable and parafiscal forced harak. So what you have to do, which is mandatory, it's a hack, it's not any giving. Giving is when I give someone something willingly, this is not voluntary but mandatory. So, while we can in principle support this because it contains a lot of good measures, I am interested and I ask you to answer me, which is why, in most cases, in the vast majority of the action plan, there is a temporary suspension of some of the even 448 various forced haraks. So, why temporarily, and why not all the time? I wonder if you are considering correcting this plan and, for example, abolishing fully mandatory membership in the HGK, the Chamber of craftsmen and in some other things that are absolutely unnecessary, and also because of personal experience from talks with the number of craftsmen and numerous entrepreneurs. Almost no one or nobody I've talked to, and I've talked to hundreds, doesn't think it's anything else, anything useful except how hundreds and thousands of people who work in these places get caught and paid. So, the very simple question is, do you think about whether you are imposed or at least one part of the absolutely unnecessary imposition is permanently abolished? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27918	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27919	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I am pleased that you support our activities for discharging our citizens, and I think it is logical that in the four waves so far, we have reduced taxes for citizens and entrepreneurs in total relieve citizens and our businessmen by nine billion kunas. It is an acquis of work in our first government, and it is good to repeat to the Croatian public that as many as 1.8 million of our citizens do not fall under income tax scissors 1.8, and that number while the SDP government was 915,000 people, so practically double. It's not a bad reminder just to get everyone together... Never mind, you've been to the election now with... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] and you forgot. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27920	Wait a minute, Comrade Beljak, please, you'll have a chance to answer for two minutes, don't throw it away. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27921	I'm glad you're distancing yourself, it's no problem, and I can support that as your thesis, that's just fine. We have reduced VAT to a lower rate of 13% of medicines, numerous living foods, preparation of meals, sweets outside the catering facilities, a whole series of moves that have reduced the VAT rate. I remind you that 93% of our entrepreneurs pay the lowest profit tax rate and she went in our term of office 20, 18, 12 now we're at 10, not bad to remind, they're all forgotten. The new tax reform goes with income tax cuts from 36 to 30, from 24 to 20 and thus leaves more resources to our citizens, which for the general benefit of the Croatian economy. All the action plans led by Minister Horvat in the past term, I don't know if it's there, I think we've charged a billion and 115 million kuna, so we've made a discharge and we're moving on. Why are some of these decisions of temporary character? Because these were brought in this year and in the context of support for the Croatian economy in the pandemic times, because of the difficulties of business, we wanted to meet different restrictions for those who pay different fees to pay them as little as possible. And on the other hand, I will remind myself that in the year behind us, which is unique, which I hope will not happen again, that we have supported the Croatian economy with more than eight billion kuna for wages only, so just for wages. So, these are unprecedented moves that I am sure many of you have consulted supported, and we have succeeded in doing what was most important to us to overcome this very demanding and difficult situation where many would have lost their jobs if we hadn't done so and to allow the Covida-19 pandemic not to cause an increase in unemployment or the failure of many businesses. We'll continue in that direction. Whether the issue you are talking about is a membership for HGK and the HOK capital issue of the functioning of the Croatian economy, we can discuss it, you can ask few of them who are dealing with it because they too have to have some income to work on, and HGK and HOK have had me think more than 150 years of tradition and are not invented at the time of our government or yours if you had something to do with it, and maybe you haven't, but we also have to take care of it. and there are such institutions in other countries as well. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27922	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27923	So I'm simply impressed by the way you're imputing certain things, first that I'm in the SDP, which is not true, it's the same as telling you that you're independent because you entered HDZ in 2011. What if I was in the government? I was never part of the government, no government. Next, there's a fellow Stier so let him explain to you or show you how we do it in Samobor with very, very limited, very limited powers. So we abolished the entire burdens, abolished, not cut, but abolished. So I'm not arguing that you've done a good job and I never said that it's no good, that it's like that and you can't be not correct and say that I'm just criticizing, but you could do much better, that's one thing. And the other thing, it doesn't go into my head, the state that was in front of bankruptcy a year ago, which was in huge financial problems where it wasn't for teachers' salaries, where there was nothing to suddenly create money and help all this together. Okay, he created himself, but I'm afraid it's not our children, but our grandkids will have to pay one day, and that's where I'd stop. Thank you for your answer. Of course I expected such an answer from you. It's not good either when I commend you, it's not good, and even when I do, Cresso Beljak is always a black sheep. I would use the opportunity to thank Minister Malenica first of all for being very correct and professionally doing my job, although we are on the opposite side and will always be on the opposite political sides and I would take the opportunity to apologize to Mr. Bošnjakovic, whom I had recently connected with the criminal octopus in Zagreb County and after a friendly conversation with him, to convince me that he is no longer part of the team, that he is not part of the team that one of the leaders of the person who became the director of the Vodovoda Zagreb County from a zero-day internship in the profession and without the completion of the VSS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27924	Thank you very much. Let's go to Question 14, Prime Minister Nikola Grmoj will ask Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27925	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, you have not today answered the question of my predecessors from the opposition, the people who asked you questions, you have answered those questions that have been prepared in advance from the ranks of the ruling coalition. I'd like to ask questions that are related to the performance, so after this disaster that happened in Banovina, you've reached out again for some recommendations that don't bind anyone. So people point out that under this stress in this situation they go to courts, go to public notebooks and ask for a delay in the execution. In fact, it is a matter of where their executives are, whether they are in which court they are located, where the public notary is located. The other day I was watching TV, the camera caught a man whose earthquake destroyed the house, he's running around and going to FIN to keep him from eating these donations that are coming, which people are giving him to help rebuild and find out about in this situation. I ask the question, why didn't the government settle it by law, stop the executions of people unblocking now that they need the money? In this whole crisis, you've obviously been late making decisions, and we've warned you about this about the execution immediately after the outbreak of the epidemic, and that's when we asked you to regulate it by law. I think it's unfortunate for the Prime Minister that you reject every proposal, that you portray any well-intentioned criticism as some kind of state demonstration. Will you handle this with the law?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27926	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27927	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Grmoya, it seems to me that you've been here all morning, isn't it? You've been in the assembly all morning. It is. Please show me which representative of the parliamentary majority has been asking me prearranged questions, who is he at this session and last, in the past 4 years. And in the future? If you find him, we'll go with him and have coffee with you. It's not a good thing you're so easy to say something that just isn't true. It might be effective if it were true, but it's not. I responded to these letters and I would say the messages of the reader today, I answered them, and I didn't know what the readers would ask me, so it wasn't pre-arranged, but it should be repeated, and it should also be known. As for your comment on how we reacted to the crisis, I have here, and I will not read, I have 12 pages of a thorough report prepared by Vice President Medved who is practically constantly in Sisak-Moslavina County and in Petrinja along with a huge team of people dealing with this topic and has no part of that care that does not work and does not work for the benefit of our fellow citizens in Sisak-Moslavina County. I will even mention because I see that MP Vidovic, whom I had a pleasant conversation with earlier when he came to sign up for a later debate, did not catch that in the working group led together by Minister Ćorić and Minister Tramišak we opened the possibility that all MPs from the 6th constituency, everyone, regardless, are these less or more well-intentioned so that you would say or who may have some constructive criticism. In fact, we want everyone to contribute to revitalising this area. So, thanks to the activities of the tax administration, thanks to the activities of the Ministry of Justice, thanks to the activities of the public records chamber, we responded immediately to stop any activities related to the implementation of this area, so we have made it easier for that segment. Therefore, to accuse us of being insolent or unsatisfactory or not following the reality of the situation on the ground, it just doesn't stand here. I suggest that if you haven't seen it before, and I can see that in this way one playway so far, the unseen representative Beljak has set out to thank Minister Malenica, I guess for the decisions that are legal, it's not thanks, it's the reality of Agent Beljak. We need to look at what we have done and what is happening on the ground. Have you come across any, one example possibly where someone has a problem with how to process it? It's something else. But both the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Justice and the Public Recording Chamber and the FINA have done everything possible to avoid being carried out during this period as we have written off the costs of the director, as we have given one-time assistance, as we do all through the benefits from the Ministry of Labour and Pensions System. So there's no element that's not in function and that's going to go after it to help people on the ground, everything is accurate, everything is true, everything is verifiable and everything is true unlike your opening comments.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27928	Just a second, Mr. Grmoy, a colleague of Beljak has reported for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27929	Thank you very much. I'll be brief. So, Art. 238. Rules of Procedure, Mr. Prime Minister said something wrong after all. So, I did thank Mr. Malenica if he respected the law, and from one HDZ, it's really a miracle. Here's a miracle for me and I just couldn't believe it, that's why she went thanking me because it's impossible, I just didn't believe that some HDZ guy would follow the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27930	A fellow white man, a fellow white guy...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27931	You're 100% coming to us. I'm only clear now. He's praised you twice.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27932	...just a little please, please, Prime Minister, please. Comrade Beljak, I must warn you, this was no violation of the Rules of Procedure, you were charming, but you went beyond what the Rules of Procedure predicted. Here you go, comrade Grumo.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27933	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, here's to make it more effective, isn't your head of the office, Tena Misetic, sending the MPs what they're going to ask the prime minister? True, no one was asking you questions today, but he was asking your ministers who were answering pre-prepared questions. You haven't answered any of the questions that were specific, in substance, about him. Neither counterpart Selak Rasdic nor colleague Vidovic Kristo nor the other representatives here. So neither will my question of whether or not you're going to fix the executions with the law. What I'll do when you mention you. election unit, you haven't even responded to what's going to happen to the citizens of Sisak. I will personally initiate a meeting of all MPs elected to VI. the electoral unit to force you to resolve the issue of the Sisak citizens because you obviously have no intention of doing so. Now, Mr. Celjak is fighting for Sisak, and he's the one who voted against Sisak's compound on the highway and against the new bridge on the Cup. So that's your concern for the citizens of Sisak. So you didn't answer their question, you were asked by your colleague Posavec Krivec, again you avoided the answer, so what will happen to the people who died in this earthquake, who are not social cases but have suffered significant damage. I'm gonna initiate a meeting, we're looking for a solution, and you keep avoiding the answers and you're dealing with who's been reading and who hasn't been reading, you haven't been doing very well with your colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27934	Let's move on, now MP Marijan Pavlikek will question Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27935	Dear Prime Minister, here's the fifth year you're headed by the Croatian government. Over the last five years, you have repeatedly said that you are implementing European sovereignty, modern sovereignty, but things on the ground often deny us in different spheres of society. So today you have in the area of eastern Slavonia, Baranja, in the area of Banovina, like, Dalmatian Zagora, in all the formerly occupied areas of numerous monuments of the dead Chetniks, enemy soldiers on whose tombstones the great Serbian aggression is excelling, denying the existence of the Croatian state. Is that the sovereign state that allows it, is it the rule of law that allows it? Imagine how one mother of the dead Croatian defender feels when she goes to the cemetery to bow down to her son, pray for his soul, just a few dozen meters away, from the monument of her son there is a monument to the enemy soldier. Why haven't you solved and removed these monuments by now, and when are you going to remove them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27936	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27937	Thank you, well-respected representative Pavliček, you still have a lot to learn about what modern sovereignty is, which is national interests, which is strengthening Croatia's position in 2020, 2021, which is the support of this government of the city of Vukovar where you are for some time the deputy mayor and if you put it all on the line, then you could tell us something about what HDZ thinks of sovereignism, what HDZ thinks of the Homeland War, what HDZ has done for Croatian defenders and how today with the unique law that has been passed, you said well, 5 years ago we are here, we will still be 3.5 years old, spells for Croatian defenders. So, you're like one team that was created as a product of various other political smaller parties today in 2021, and you're giving it the right to be able to document HDZ on these topics, I've said a lot, it's absolutely passing, it doesn't stand, you've missed for a few decades as to the general activity that you're dealing with. And I don't know if you're still within this club that's slowly melting and falling apart according to these latest departures of some people who are accusing HDZ I guess we did something to contribute to the collapse of the Homeland Movement, thank you very much, only you are standing where you are and the broad way, as far as HDZ's position is concerned. As for these topics that you are talking about, these are topics that you need to guide and you can write to the Minister of Construction, they are the ones who are dealing with this topic, so let them give you a thorough answer, and as we will do even more intensively for Vukovar and for Vukovar-Srijem County and for Croatian defenders, we will fight for Croatian national interests, we will bring to Croatia 24.2 billion euros as leverages of economic development and economic recovery for the next decade, so for the fourth decade of Croatian democracy, we will work on co-existence in Croatia, respecting minority rights, including minorities in life because we think it is good and useful for the Croatian state. I believe that's what you want. I guess you're not against it, and I think that's what's important and we're going to be taking care of the truth, we're going to be taking care of the processing of war crimes no matter how far this topic seems today from the time it starts, so they don't get old and they're done more in the term of our government, not that it's been done by executive power, but it's been done by the State's attorneyship, specialized, specialised, specialised people in the MUP who've been dealing with these issues and who will deal with them so that none of these issues that you're trying to take on as some of your own as well as someone else's will simply not stay because they are concerned and cared for by the Croatian state and those who have gained majority trust in the elections and so will continue. I believe that this will be the case in the local elections and this in Vukovar given everything we've done so far for the Vukovar we keep as important as any city but we always treat it with special respect and so we will treat it in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27938	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27939	Thank you very much, four minutes...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27940	It's just, for a second, I'm sorry, I didn't see any injuries to the Rules of Procedure, my colleague Dretar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27941	The Honorable President of the Assembly, fellow Members and colleagues, was injured by Rules of Procedure item 238, the article I apologize to you, Mr. Prime Minister of the Republic, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, in communication with his colleague, Mr. Pavicek, cited and mentioned the Homeland Movement and said that there was a disseminating or disintegrating which therefore did not correspond to the truth. So it's about bringing out false facts, the Homeland Movement isn't falling apart, it's getting rid of a certain ballast and it's even stronger going forward. So, please, I'd like to distract and ask not to provide incorrect information. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27942	Comrade Dretar, this has not been a violation of the Rules of Procedure you know, you have opportunities both through your representative's question and in other ways to comment on it, so please do not do it. Here you go, pal Pavlichek.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27943	Thank you, dear Prime Minister. 4 minutes of conversation, but there is no answer to the question asked, how many sovereignly do we see that you have solved the issue of borders in the 21st century, 30 years of Croatian independence, we see that you have solved the issue of war damage, we see that you have solved this issue of tombstones, give me a European state that allows the monument of plates to enemy soldiers on its territory, it is not on a globe of Earth and let alone in the EU. As for co-existence, we live together Mr. Prime Minister in the city of Vukovar and we know best what a co-existence is much better than those who live 300 km from the city of Vukovar. And as for the local elections and your success, hope is the last to die.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27944	Let's go to the 16th question, MP Mirela Ahmetovic will be asked by Minister of Economy and Sustainable Development Tomislav Ćoric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27945	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers Ćoric, the rebalance of the 2020 budget, provided salary support to employees by the end of 2020. Because of the tremendously slow procedure and the support is at least a month and a half late if we are talking about November 2020. As a consequence, companies whose operations are banned or their revenues are drastically reduced due to the pandemic of the coronary virus are in a very difficult situation and could not pay their workers their salaries. They are thus committing a crime and their situation is becoming unsustainable and the unsustainable situation of Croatian workers and their families at risk of existence. For example, the workers of the trogyrian shipyard have not received a salary for 6 months, and they have not received a government minimum for 3 months. Independently on this example, some 7,000 companies are estimated to be at risk for the sake of 50,000 workers. In December 2020, we have an increase in unemployment of as much as 21% compared to December 2019. Given that the budget for this year is based on an estimate of GDP growth of 5%, and this particular 7,000 companies contribute to our GDP with about 9% if very realistic expectations are realized that these companies will be shut down under a number of other circumstances that are not going to work out for us, we can expect that the first rebalancing will increase the social contributions to our citizens. I ask you the question Minister Coric, what you have specifically done within the scope of your ministry's work to help the economy and mitigate the negative consequences of the coronary pandemic on the business of small and medium-sized enterprises Entrepreneurs and craftsmen? [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27946	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27947	Dear Representative Ahmetovic, I thank you for your question. So, first of all, I'm going to answer a few of his segments. The increase in unemployment at the end of 2020 to which you refer is a logical consequence of the fact that the Republic of Croatia, as well as the entire EU, is in fact the whole world except for only a few countries from 3 months last year, operating in completely abnormal circumstances, and in this context I would stress the fact that contrary to speculation so-called. experts who estimated that at the end of 2020 we will welcome more than 400,000 unemployed Croatians and the number of unemployed in Croatia is around 160,000. If you compare this with the average for 2019, it is clear that this is the locking of the economy we experienced as most other countries took the least possible sacrifice. As regards concrete assistance to our employers, I will only refer to the fact that the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development and HAMAG BICRO as institutions controlled by the Republic of Croatia in the past months or over the past year have gone on several occasions with various credit arrangements or moratories. I will remind you of this latest HAMAG BICRO Covid-19 loan of up to EUR 50,000 which started on 9 December 2020 with some 2,600 check-ins is about 40% at this time processed and we believe that within 2 months just as we stated by the movement of this arrangement we will process all applications. So, which allows precisely micro, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs that you listed in your question, to increase liquidity or liquidity to prepare normal business in the next period. Just yesterday, at the Government of the Republic of Croatia, this Covid-19 loan or programme was extended for companies, i.e. micro, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs from the first group, so for 5 of our most underdeveloped counties and we actually flexible the conditions, and then for entering this programme it is possible that their decline in activity is not 60% but 20% in 2020 compared to 2019. This year, we are also planning a major programme that should first and foremost allow for an increase in production capacities, i.e. the digitisation of the process, thus raising the technological level of production worth a billion and a half kuna. He should be released by the end of the first quarter. Not to list any further activities undertaken during the past period, all with the aim of reducing non-taxable duties, for example, which occurred last year and all with the aim of facilitating this situation in our businesses, so such activities at the level of the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development and above all at the labour ministry level are quite a number. As for the fact that subsidies, wages late as you said at the beginning of your question, about a month, a month and a half, I have to admit that I do not have that kind of information from HZZ, on the contrary, as far as I know, the largest number of our entrepreneurs is very positive about this measure with which we went from 4000 kn or co-financing of salaries to our workers in different sectors. As far as Brodotrogir is concerned, so it seems to me, fifth in a series of questions you've asked in the context of this big one, so I'm Brodotrogir as a private company operating at a level of 4 or 5 entities, as far as I have information, in 4 of those 5 things are totally fine, in one of them there's a lag behind, or a delay in the payoff and shipotrogir managers. communicate that these solutions will be found as soon as possible. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27948	There you go, the obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27949	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, as I assumed, you have not answered the question specifically, you have even concluded that the largest number of entrepreneurs are looking positively at all your activities, I do not see any activity as you do not see members of the Association The Voice of Entrepreneurs, or 15 000 people who have self-organised and sought and offered solutions that you have called... I remind you, they and their workers provide your salary. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In addition, in meetings with those people representing 15,000 entrepreneurs, you played with your cell phone and thus showed deep disrespect for them. You've recently hired two people, of course HDZ. Nobody knows what they're doing or what they're working for. But their salaries could provide as much as 4 support, at least 4 support for Croatian workers. You once said, not so long ago, that not all entrepreneurs will fail in this crisis. And by doing so, you have entered history as one of the most invaluable ministers in the Croatian government. Every entrepreneur and every worker is important. Minister, when you treat Croatian workers and Croatian entrepreneurs as you treat your party colleagues, this country and its economy will breathe but that is not possible until you leave. Because your insolence surpasses even your incompetence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27950	Let's move on. Representative Sabina Glasovac will ask the question of Minister of Science and Education Radovan Fuchs, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27951	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, proudly the whole of Croatia but also the educational system is located in a chaotic and rather unusual situation. The benches, notebooks, tablets, tablets, remained under the ruins in this case of Sisak-Moslavina County, the Zagreb earthquakes already started and quite fragile schools, became even more vulnerable, the paths of children from home to Zagreb schools became dangerous for them, parents, teachers and children struggle with severe stress, they can't sleep, and there is a key to actually saving one generation. As last year, in this case alone even harder, there is a key question of your responsibility and your actions. You have decided that since yesterday all students of the lower grades of primary schools and graduates will go to Croatian schools and the rest will follow the course according to the C model or online. And I have to say that I don't mind against that decision because it's optimal in this case and maybe even possible. To that question, you've given the answer as much as you can right now. But the remaining question is what will happen to the seniors. As your predecessor, you're talking about model A, B and C, but it's not enough for seniors right now, and my second question is, why do you insist on these extended winter holidays for a week, making up for it in a way that you'll probably either end the spring holidays or you'll extend the school year to summer? Wouldn't it be a time to activate an article of the law that says that in the event of a disaster, we can shorten the school year without any compensation? Please answer these questions, what will happen to the graduates and why do you insist on making up for it?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27952	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27953	Thank you very much, distinguished MPs, esteemed MPs and MPs. Yes, this school year is really burdened not only with the pandemic and all the problems associated with it that naturally affect all of our inhabitants but also with the population of other countries in the world, but unfortunately we had to survive these two earthquakes in Zagreb and Sisak-Moslavina which further complicated the whole situation when we know that a huge number of students are going to school in Zagreb right now, and then we add Sisak-Moslavina County, so we are almost half of the students in Croatia. This model we have applied from the beginning, A, B and C model that we have equally implemented that interactively can be applied one and the other modes, depending on the situation at local level, proved to be a successful model and we managed to perform the first semester with me to say, however the smallest possible deviations of children from school, so in some cases only the C model and online teaching were applied. Now, because of the situation we had at the end of the year, the epidemiological situation in Croatia, and of course the earthquakes we went to the variant that a week before the mid-term ended we moved on to the teaching line and we suggested the holidays not to extend, but to propose holidays so that the schools were basically empty for about 38 days if we included weekends. In the meantime, the situation has been significantly improved, except for the situation in Sisak-Moslavina and precisely because of support for such an epidemiological situation, a decision has been taken in consultation with the counties, the counties have informed us equally that they accept the suggestion that first graders return to school, so from 1st to 4th grade that function as closed units and epidemiologically can be much better defended by such approaches and they themselves tend to follow the course and parents of course must then, if they are not in the classroom, stay at home. After our consultation and suggestions, the graduates returned to schools except in two counties, one of which is Primorje-goranska and Istria. Primorje-goranska generally had one worse epidemiological situation with the highest number of positive students, but precisely because of the state's graduation and the state's graduation exams we suggested that graduates return to school by model A and that's now in effect. We are thinking, of course, of course, and we are in contact with the National Centre for External Assessment, and this week there will be another such meeting to see what is the best possible model, and in addition to that, the graduates will be provided with additional support in the mastering of materials, because there, as I said, the situation is extremely unfavourable and, of course, with all these additional and psychological and psychological and sociological elements. As for the extension of the course, we'll see if we need to continue teaching or give up teaching. Of course that option you mentioned exists, but at this point we think it would be better to catch up on the course and unless it's too long an outbreak I think it can be compensated either over the weekend or possibly by extending a shorter period after school stops in the summer, it won't mean very much in terms of students in teachers.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27954	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27955	Dear Minister. You think a lot, but I'm just warning you that you don't have a lot of time to think and decide. Why? Because every thought and delay decision-making, we have seen an example of your predecessor leads to uncertainty. And at this point, if anything needs students and Croatian children, then it's some kind of security in these uncertain times. So don't be like the great guru of Zagreb, Mr. Lovrić, who has been subscribed to a chair on HTV for three days, so he's visiting the central Dnevnik, then in Studio 4 and in the Open and story-telling for good night instead of solving problems in Zagreb, and now that his parents have pushed Mr. Lovrić to figure out how to operate the passing corridors of so on. The tunnels that will essentially be wooden skeletons, and the statisticians did not allow after these new earthquakes that they felt very strongly in Zagreb and Zagreb County to review schools and determine whether Zagreb schools were safe as well. Don't let your coalition partner be your role model. Don't let that happen. Secondly, as for seniors and ideal conditions and that tomorrow the crowns disappear and that it ceases what will not happen, we see in other European countries, I'm afraid that Croatia will be no exception, don't forget that this year's graduates lost and last year and this year, this should be taken into account. These young people and not having these conditions are very difficult for them, it is a transition from one lifetime to another life period and what is your job to learn from past mistakes and to allow everything to all students, and especially to graduates in fact to ensure safety. It took the government six days to declare a state of emergency, don't take you three months to tell them when they're going to graduate, which they're going to take, and don't insist on normal conditions under abnormal circumstances, please. And don't make me move this question here in Parliament every month.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27956	Thank you. Let's go to 18th question representative Zlatko Hasanbegovic, will be asked by culture ministers and the media by Nina Obulen Koržinek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27957	Respected. The several years of HNK agony in Zagreb, which your favorite Dubravka Vrgoč culminated in not implementing the epidemiological measures which at that time were subject to the entire Croatian society. According to trade union representatives, Vrgoč is busy with the megalomanic maintenance of his visions of normality and his image in mirror and so on. She broke the rules in force and avoided the protection of her employees. As you know, the union has also filed criminal charges against the identity that has been completed after the death of an Ante Topic choir member. The union commissioners have requested the transfer of the Vrgoč ingenuity and because of quotes of the "subtle intimidation of employees" which is otherwise the most favorite of its management method. The request further states that intensities Vrgoč quote "fully lost the professional trust of most theatre employees, its repertoire, numerous audiences and all artists and employees today are hostages of saving one person's career, which is a disgrace to the entire Republic of Croatia". It's finally the emperor, specifically the Empress naked. I'm naked. My question is, when will you comply with the legal provisions and the statutes of the HNK article. 25th to 28th Croatian Government to submit a request for the resolution of Dubravka Vrgoč from the duty of HNK in Zagreb? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27958	Here's the minister's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27959	Your Honor, Mr. Representative, on this direct question of this ingenuity or some other ingenuity, I will do so when conditions are obtained and when I have a reason for that. I'm surprised that you're quoting here in your question the very media and the people who attacked you the most. And I don't understand why you're so impatient and why you need information like this that you obviously haven't checked and you haven't been informed of. The accusations in the global pandemic situation to anyone that they deliberately violate the law and spread the disease are very serious. I've been warning you about that for the last two months. And I think we all have to hold back very much at a time when a large number of citizens didn't know where he got it when bars and restaurants were open, public transportation, etc., to point fingers at a person and declare her responsible. I have collected in the last two months absolutely all the data that have been available to me, however, since a criminal report has been filed, of course, that I will leave it to the State's Attorney's office to assess whether there have been violations of the law or not. However, I have talked to both the administration and union representatives and representatives of artists who have a completely different opinion. We'll have a meeting of the Committee on Culture on Thursday, and we've sent all the information we've collected to the Committee on the Culture of this House with a request to approach with attention because there's a large number of personal data. There is no evidence that the measures were in breach, on the contrary, three inspections that were in the HNK so far established, and yesterday, in a conversation with the representatives of the working council, I also warned them of the situation that one number of artists was past the decision of the administration and with an explicit ban to perform outside the theatre, performed outside the theatre, which is also the case with some who were later tested positively, which can be verified from the documentation that we delivered. As far as these other issues are concerned, I was the secretary of state when your colleague and co-worker was Mrs. Lederer was an ingenuity, experienced similar attacks, and then I defended her by believing that the results of the theatre were public, success, results. So the result of the HNK in the last year is more than 6 million revenues, above what they transferred to New Year's, that's over 400 performances, that's more than 90% of the theatre's fullness, that's numerous co-productions, numerous international hostings, more than 14, I think 14 or 15 awards. So as long as the audience comes to the theater, as long as the audience rushes into that theater and looks for a map more, while the artists who work there are satisfied with the repertoire, as they achieve the results, my deep conviction is that there will be no conditions for me to question whether anyone has successfully or successfully worked. If this turns out to be no longer so, then the cited laws will be taken into account, but I will never do it on the basis of a flat-rate assessment, especially in these circumstances of the global pandemic. Here. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27960	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27961	... the village of the so-called so-called village. There is no need for success here to reach out to the ministerial position, who is interested in this vision will read daily various five-para media in which the network of interest is personally connected to the lady. [[Last-on speaker]] Wretch reports her actions daily. Therefore, the state's attorney's office has publicly said that they have launched regular reconnaissances that need to determine the facts. So, you, Minister, as well as your favorite, mrs. Vrgoč persistently refutes the facts by marking the humiliated and systematically abused HNK employees as a handful of always the same dissatisfactions, liars, spreaders of semi-information, so which, both in public and in towers without any evidence, you associate with my actions. You see, here now, instead of a handful of always the same request for a shift, more than 2/3 of HNK employees supported. So, as for Thursday's board meeting in materials, we didn't officially get any of your obviouss, so we got two of Mrs. McNally's unread photocopies. Vrgoč, and in your indication that we have received individually, it is said that you are still waiting for the President of the Theatre Council of Mr. Ljuština's testimony, so ask him to come back from self-insulation by Thursday. in his native village, as he said, deliver an urgent observation. [[Intruder: Thank you]] I'll see you Thursday at the hearing.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27962	Comrade Hasanbegović, thank you very much, time is up. I ask you to respect as all other MPs do the time. Let's move on now, now it's time for counterpart Dario Hrebak to ask the Minister of Regional Development and EU funds, Natasha Tramišak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27964	Thank you very much. Respected and respected Minister Tramišak, given the process that is nearing the end of Croatia's new division into NUTS 2 regions, so in particular 4 new NUTS 2 regions, I am personally interested in how this new division will apply to the new financial period drawn from EU funds, what will be concrete from this new division and how will they refer to Croatian entrepreneurs? Of course, what I'm most interested in is what of this new division will, in particular, have entrepreneurs from the area of Bjelovar-Bilogor County and the town of Bjelovar? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27965	The reply of the esteemed Minister Natasha Tramišak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27966	Honorable MPs, Your Honor, Mr. Hrebak. As you pointed out in your question, the national classification of statistical regions is a prerequisite for using support intensity for entrepreneurs. In particular, regional support maps. What is important to mention is that since 1 January 2021, since this month, a new division into 4 NUTS 2 regions in the Republic of Croatia has taken effect. It was corrected by the irregular NUTS 2 regions where Bjelovarsko-Bilogorska County, north of Croatia, as well as 5 Slavonian counties belonged to continental Croatia, i.e. together with the city of Zagreb, made one region, and thus apparently increased the percentage of development. As this irregular division is now corrected according to the national classification, the Bjelovar-Bilogor County, together with 5 Slavonian counties, the Carlovak County and Sisak-Moslavina County, has become part of the Pannonian Croatian region, reflecting the real state of development of these counties and are at 40.86% of the development of the Republic of Croatia. By doing so, according to a new regional support map, entrepreneurs will have the right to significantly greater aid intensity. We are talking about an additional 25% which in the new multiannual financial framework and support, for concrete investment in development, production initiation or further quality equipment of their activities is rising to 70%, and the maximum intensity has now been 55% in the previous period. Significantly for the north of Croatia itself, when we talk about the support map, and they will have 10% more support compared to what they have so far. It is important, here, to mention, that the town of Bjelovar, Bjelovar-Bilogor County itself will have more and more support for its entrepreneurs, and thus encourage more economic and entrepreneurial activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27967	Honorable representative Dario Hrebak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27968	Thank you very much for your answer. I personally advocated the even development of Croatia, and I am glad that there has been such a division where other cities that depended on the city of Zagreb at the moment because the city of Zagreb has somehow brought down a ladder and opportunities for all of us, I think this will be very good for all entrepreneurs and from the area of Bjelovar-Bilogor and Bjelovar, but also all the other counties that have been cut off by this old division. I hope that here we will have the opportunity, at least as far as entrepreneurs are concerned, that entrepreneurs can develop their business much easier, not only in Zagreb and the surrounding area, but also in other regions and thus not be cut off as they have been so far. So thank you for this information.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27969	The next question will be asked by the respected representative, Andreja Maric, to the Minister of Health, Prof. William Berosch. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27970	Thank you very much. Dear Minister Berosch. In March 2020, you mobilized all health workers. Over 10 months, all system employees are working in abnormal conditions, doing their best to provide the best possible care to patients, endangering their health and family health. Since exhaustion falls from the feet, many have been infected at work, not just in the so-called. Covid's departments. It is therefore an offensive decision by the Government of 7.12.2020, which pays a special reward for working with Covid-19 sufferers of 10% of the basic salary to staff in the constituencies of activities providing care for Covid-19. I'm asking you what's wrong with the other employees? Who can and who dares to claim that other healthcare professionals outside the so-called so-called health care center. Covid constituency units do not worry about their shifts and dutys both for positive and for Covid negative patients. What about the doctors of family medicine, emergency reception, emergency services? They're not on the first line of defense? When are you going to correct that embarrassing decision and make an addition for all health employees? Is this how you all plan to keep health care professionals in Croatia together, especially in the earthquake of affected areas, where you have not received the supplements and when you intend to increase the extras for the jobs that are most difficult to work, for example, units of intensive treatment, or to step up accessories towards the workshops as they practice other countries in the EU and how we have been proposed by the medical associations and medical unions and others? The decision so far is inappropriate, humiliating for all employees of the health system of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27971	Thank you. The reply of the Honorable Minister of Health, Berosha.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27972	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President of HS, the distinguished and respected parliamentary deputies. So the government of the Republic of Croatia has sought to recognize the current moment and is just thanking all those health and health care workers who provided health care to the Covid sufferers. It was precisely at the December 7th session that such a decision was made on the basis of which all those on the first line of defense, who were treated by Covid-19 positive patients were given a special reward of 10% on the basic salary. As I have already said, the right to this decision has both health and health care workers. Furthermore, given the new circumstances of providing health care to Covid-19 positive patients, which is a shift, there was a real possibility that then salaries would be less for health and non-health care workers than the quarterly average of their previous work, when they achieved overtime and other additional rewards, so there was a real possibility that their salary was higher for the past period. Therefore, this decision gives healthcare professionals the right to decide which one pays more favourably for them. Furthermore, this salary, or special reward, depends on the complexity of the work that someone does, are therefore the differences we read today in the media, completely normal and expected and it is the directors of the health care institution who decide which employee, whether health care worker, was indeed unhealthy with their instructions working with COVID-19 positive patients. In accordance with the practices of the surrounding countries, we have focused on those healthcare professionals who really took part in the treatment of COVID-19 patients. Since the central salary account recognises the watch as the accounting unit, we couldn't change it, therefore, the bill is done by hours. With it quite clear that due to the shift work and way of providing healthcare mainly in the intensive care units, those doctors and nurses who had been on shift for 4 hours and had been venting and guarding themselves for 4 hours, that they would receive a reward for the entire work, so a total of 8 hours. That's what was possible at this point given the circumstances of filling the state budget, the health budget, this is the maximum at this point that we could do as a government but it's quite clear that we recognize... and we thank all health and health care workers who participated in the defence of this global epidemic and saved many lives of Croatian citizens. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So that's what you can tell you at this point, with that here, one example from KB Dubrava, sisters accomplish for their work maximum of up to 1428 kn and doctors considering precisely the described coefficient of complexity of jobs, 2610. These are, of course, maximum payouts and special rewards that have been awarded and depend on hours of work that someone provides. Also, in the earlier collective agreement, there are certain other additions that doctors and nurses have in intensive treatment units, as well as in post-intense treatment units, and all of this has been kind of defined in collective contract decisions before, so that's what I can answer to your questions at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27973	Thank you. Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27974	... in the media, when the storms rose over what they were really like, they said the directors were responsible for the payments. [[Specially enabled.]] In one piece I even agree with, however, you have sent a letter quoting again "it is about the aforementioned COVID structure units" and on this basis the directors acted. I'll remind you that on December 10th, when we had that debate, the interpretation of health care, I personally warned you about what was going on in the field and how the accounts were actually done. I also sought you on two occasions and prayed that no one, nor those who work on COVID and non-COVIC departments, would actually correct this unfair decision for additions where only those who are in COVID departments will be rewarded. Of that, unfortunately, there was nothing and that decision since 7.12 you could have changed by now. I have to say for the public and obviously you don't even know what your decision on 10% reward actually means in practice. This means that employees only received 10% for those hours spent on these COVID departments rather than for full-time work, although many have been infected with non-COVID departments and COVID positive patients are also taken care of during duty which has not been calculated, also in laboratories, emergency services, operating halls, clinics, maids clean and not COVID departments where they were lying and positive patients after the outbreak of the virus, etc. We have to say that they're all amounts at stake. 6.5 kn reward in a month, 27 kn, 42 kn first grade sisterhood in OHBP, recognised to him 16 hours, 97 kn maid for the whole month, up to a few hundred kunas for doctors who have been recognised only COVID and I repeat, Sisak has not received anything yet. It's a shame. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27975	The next question will be asked by a respected representative of Jura Brkan, Agriculture Minister Marija Vukkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27976	I thank you, Vice President. Here, unfortunately, a month and a half ago, we witnessed a single elemental accident, and these are floods in the Vrgorian region. After that, there was an even worse natural disaster, earthquakes in Sisak-Moslavina County, and somehow it all fell into another plan. However, we saw that people were left without personal property, we also saw that a number of agricultural plantations were flooded and basically mine, during the flood itself, were reported by residents and some experts as if the final solution were the construction of a hydro-technical tunnel. My question is, basically, what is the current situation in the flooded area in the Vrhor region? Also, do farmers report to the already offered 5.2 agricultural land recovery and production potential, and is there a project to build a hydro-technical tunnel, and if so, at what stage? That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27977	The reply of the respected Agriculture Minister Vukkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27978	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. MP, the flood that hit the Vrgorian end has indeed become one of the most difficult, if not the most difficult in the last 50 years, it has occurred due to heavy rainfall, the growth of the resulting groundwater, spillage and floods... and lakes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Farmers who have suffered in this area and who have suffered the most from my data, those from the village of Kokorići, still do not use the measure or operation of the currently open tender for restoration of production potential, measure 5, operation 5.2.1, rural development programme. They're not using it because there's still no damage assessment. Otherwise, as a result of the flood, it is difficult to assess the damage in the short term, it takes some time for certain cultures to assess the damage, this type of accident. However, the Ministry of Agriculture is working on amended tender procedures for the next competition under measure 5, which we plan to publish with the European Commission after negotiations with the European Commission in February. So we won't be late and we'll be ready for the first day of the moment when farmers have confirmed damage. However, for certain types of production, more urgent measures are also needed which cannot wait to assess the damage, for example for plastic production. According to our data, 10 farmers and the Ministry of Agriculture will also respond with special measures to restore plastic production in the area. This year, too, because of the huge disasters and disasters that have hit our different regions, we have accelerated some of the payments relating to basic, total direct payments, which are financed not from European funds, from the European Guarantee Fund for Agriculture but within the limit of the state budget, so we are immediately in the first days of the New '21s. paid 35 million kuna for affected areas. Within that amount, 858,000 kuna was paid to farmers of Vrgorje region. In part of your issue regarding hydrotechnical facilities, I must stress that the Ministry of Agriculture is not responsible for them, Croatian waters are competent. But also since it is one of the most important projects for this Croatian government can praise the efforts of both the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development and the Croatian Waters, which after years, and perhaps decades of wandering in previous stages of the concept solution, from concept solutions, different concept solutions, have come to this work very quickly and according to my information, is the development of an environmental impact study as the most demanding part of the preparation of the project for disposal, for a complete resolution of the disposal from the Vrgorje field and fields... Thank you. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27979	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27980	I thank the Minister for your response, and I also thank your complete ministry and the Government of the Republic of Croatia for doing everything for the people in the affected areas. I believe that the measures themselves will be realised and paid, and also that this hydrotechnical tunnel will finally come to life and that the Vrgorje field will no longer be blue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27981	Now let's go to the question that MP Krešimir Ackar will ask Minister of Science and Education Radovan Fuchs, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27982	I thank the Honorable President HS. Dear Ministers, the beginning of the second half, unfortunately with the Covid-19 pandemic, a devastating earthquake occurred in central Croatia, which has also made it difficult for an already significant organisational school year. What we personally and in Velika Gorica felt, we were left out of a completely unusable school in Dubravac, but we also saw that you had already taken some teams and some reactions that might significantly facilitate the future that is questionable when we talk about those schools that are no longer in operation today not only in large-scale areas but also in Sisak-Moslavina County, so please tell us what activities you have spent and taken to get proper education despite the crowns, covid and earthquakes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27983	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27984	Thank you, Mr. Representative. Here's where I have a very pleasant opportunity to relate to the previous question from Mrs. Devereaux. Voter, so further explain to you the activities that the ministry makes, or to all, familiar with what I have not been able to say in those first 5 minutes. Of course we do everything to get all the children in Croatia as much better education as possible in this extremely difficult and burdensome year. I'm not going to talk about models at this time, you've all heard them before, but I'm going to say that just given the possibility of the whole part of the educational process due to the primary situation related to the Ministry's pandemic, we've done something that didn't exist before, and that's besides all those plans, tips, platforms and help teachers and directors, we've made a framework annual implementing curricula. So we offered teachers and directors a united variant of planning and teaching lessons in such a way that if, in part, schools or a whole area or the whole country if required, the situation has as much synchronised teaching as possible so that all students who follow it on line variants can follow it at the same time. These are the plans that schools and teachers usually make for every week or month, in this way being synchronised to make the course available and according to lessons throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia, that's one thing. Up to now, some 4 thousand of these lessons have been made and about 200 lessons are recorded on a weekly basis, which is about 400 hours of material that is then used in schools, and lessons are recorded at a distance of 2 weeks to record new and new materials as the teaching process runs. Of course, we have further strengthened the distribution and technical assistance, so it has been distributed to Croatian students around 200 tablets, only in 2020. 97,000. Equally over 6,000 pieces of information equipment for schools and about 1700 laptops, which for teachers, which for assistants and helpers in teaching. Similarly, access and different platforms have been made on which teachers can consult and use where they can benefit from the expert advice for teaching, Carnet gives full technical support, on request goes on and off to the ground, and also works continuously in the information school process because you know that all schools are not fully equipped, but with information online equipment are constantly working somewhere by the end of this year should be all schools or, somewhere, half of the following, be informed. We have a situation that makes you... is also a special team formed that is constantly burdened in Sisak-Moslavina County. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It consists of the Secretary of State, Assistant, but also of another Secretary of State in charge of Finance and Team, which, in which construction and architecture engineers are involved, so that the process of rebuilding the schools themselves in Sisak-Moslavina County will also be rejected as quickly as possible and in order to be with the projects were prepared in that sense. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] The graduation will take place Please. [[Intruder: Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27985	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27986	Indeed, as a man who spent most of his professional life in education, I am aware that since the Homeland War this must be the most difficult organisational and infrastructure year in front of your ministry, so here you are really doing it at a high level and in the maximum possibilities that have been provided, and unfortunately the frameworks are very narrow, so here, on behalf of all the educational staff I constantly communicate with, most warmly, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27987	Let's move on, the 23rd question, representative Romana Nikolic, will refer to Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27988	I would like to thank the President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Prime Minister. A terrible earthquake that hit the area of Petrinja has also raised a number of questions about the functioning of the supply system. By delivering food products to the cargo, I believe that no one has lost at least a basic meal, but what I'm pointing out is housing containers. According to what I found in the field, along with club representatives, to temporarily take care of those who have lost their roof over their heads, it takes at least 1000 containers, while stock supplies have only less than a hundred at their disposal. And then what happens. We quickly send a distress call to Turkey, so after a few days we order containers from the manufacturer and time passes and then the cold is welcomed by more than 800 families in the minuses. For who or what? Of course. More than 800 families in the snow and cold are without a roof over their heads because someone in the stock market hasn't done his job. We believe that stock supplies urgently need audits, that someone has to do some serious reconnaissances there and find out why we weren't prepared for these situations. Who's working there and what's he doing? Is there even a legal obligation to have enough material, even containers for situations like this? But most importantly, to determine the responsibility of those who led to this condition and left numerous families without a roof over their heads. My question is, do you support our proposal to have the state's review deeply combed supply supplies and control it there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27989	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27990	Thank you, well-respected representative Nikolic. As for the state audit, they can do it without your proposal and should do it according to their plan. As for the container, we already commented in the earlier part of the current morning. So, there are about 300 containers in the stock reserves, 200 of them were deployed because of Covid, 70 of Zagreb because of the first earthquake, those who were available were immediately sent to Sisak-Moslavina County. We asked for 200 containers through the European Civil Protection Mechanism, and immediately practically hours after the earthquake, 112 arrived through bilateral cooperation with other countries, 154 more. So it's going to come from that side about 270 containers. You know that we, I personally ran that meeting, held a meeting with all our container manufacturers, so those who are large,.../incomprehensible/... whether it's the Međimurje firm Technix or here from Krapina-Zagorje County, Unity and a few smaller ones. We ordered 428 residential containers, so a container that has both a sanitary knot and a kitchen and beds and a furniture inside that people can sit. They came in 206, parallel to that of all hotelers, so to the hotelers, those who have within their hotel complexes or resorts and so on. Mobile homes, mobile homes, 24 or 32 square meters. We bought virtually everything we could buy, so 264 mobile homes the state just through stock supplies after meeting with HUT bought from hotel houses, they were delivered 168. Before that, they donated 125 mobile homes. So, if you add up all of this we ordered, if you add up what was donated, if we take into account the donations of different other private actors, the humanitarian trust, I don't know, like Caritas and the others, the data I'm available with today, so it's delivered to certain addresses for now 555 mobile housing units, containers and homes, and on the power grid there are 650 of them, so 650. Therefore, when you talk about stockpiles, when you talk about the speed of real delivery and containers and mobile homes and everything else that happens to spontaneous activities, friendly or otherwise, we will within a very short period of time until the beginning of February, such a deal was with container manufacturers according to our estimates practically get to those needs that are registered at the headquarters of civil protection. Of course, it's not realistic that a country like Croatia has a lager in a warehouse, I don't know, 1500 containers that are also of residential character, it was simply not envisaged by any plan, at least as far as I met. Do we now, as a state in this situation of the thorny area, start to have that kind of logistic support in case we need to consider it the same way? The cost of all this is not great, for this disaster is not great and we have done in the shortest time everything that was reasonable, rational and to the benefit of our fellow citizens in Sisak-Moslavina County. As far as the audit goes, I don't mind.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27991	Thank you. Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27992	Well, here's the thing, listening to you for these four minutes, I got the impression that you're doing great and that everything's under control. But here I'm going to give you a few examples that cast doubt that things aren't working out the way they should, so let's take it in order. The head of the goods supply company Damir Juzbasic is the chairman of the City Committee of the HDZ, he worked in Slavonia Županja, which is now owned by the Viro Group. In the Viro Group administration is Vedran Culjak, who is also vice-president of the City Committee of HDZ Vinkovci and son of former HDZ parliamentary representative Tomislav Culjak. What's particularly interesting is that this particular company has input jobs with the department of supply. Since the stockpiles were managed by Mr. Juzbašić, the company has been paid 6.4 million kuna and the HDZ government, meaning from 2016 to today a total of 7.4 million kuna. I don't know how you do, but this all smells to me like we're being watched by Project Slavonia Two, and it's more than obvious that the audit will have a full-hand job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27993	Let's move on, it is now up to representative Marin Lerotic to ask the Prime Minister, Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27994	Thank you. The Honorable President of the Croatian Government. Here behind us is one of the hardest if not the most difficult year after the war, caused by the pandemic of the coronary virus, which by the devastating earthquakes. We all agree that the earthquake affected areas needs to be restored as soon as possible, but not only the buildings but also the economic life. We need money to do this, and to secure money, we need a strong and sustainable economy. So I have a right to ask you a question, what will happen to production in Kanfanar the largest foreign investment in the Republic of Croatia that was over 500 million kuna? And I am expressing concern about the recent departure of the Cimos production plant from Labin to neighbouring Serbia. I've already asked you that question, I repeat it again, and I'm really interested in you answering what you're doing specifically about the rest of the production in Kanfanara and what kind of future workers can expect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27995	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27996	Thank you very much. Representative Lerotić, I am pleased that the other day on the board of directors you were satisfied with the basic direction and outlines of our national development strategy that will soon come before the representatives in HS and we will all be able to discuss the direction of economic development together, and we will also do so when it comes to attracting foreign investment. You know better than I do when and under what conditions he sold British American Tobacco to a factory in Kanfanar, I don't think it's too bad to repeat. So she sold the Adris group, sold it with certain contractual obligations to her kind of penalty in case someone left Croatia early. These are facts that are not usually mentioned in your questions, but should be mentioned. The policy of excise duty on tobacco and tobacco products is brought by the Government, we have been in constant dialogue with British American Tobacco and in the context of European legislation and our regulations and I think we have found a solution in the talks that will enable this company to do so. Keep production and factory in Kanfanar, otherwise 80% of this production goes for export, which is good and thus ensure that jobs are maintained and we make another contribution to Istria County as we do to the construction and completion of the Istrian Ipsilon as we do to investments in Pula Hospital, as we do in many other projects from tourism. Here is former Minister Cappelli who knows very well how many projects we have supported when it comes to Istrian County, so we will continue. Therefore, you do not have to worry, Deputy Prime Minister Maric, the finance minister has a warrant to come to the government's meeting soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27997	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27998	Thanks for the answer. I hope that it will be so that in Croatia we will finally begin to create an incentive and investment climate and that the Croatian economy will finally stand on one stable foot because if we are to build our future or the future of the Republic of Croatia on money from the EU and tourism, then the future is not at least bright. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u27999	Let's go to the 25th issue of Representative Sanja Radolovic is asking the Prime Minister, Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28000	I thank the President of the Parliament. Your Honor, Prime Minister. Indeed, the terrible tragedies caused by the devastating earthquake last year were the human fates of the inhabitants of the primary city of Zagreb, Zagreb County, Krapina-Zagorska, and now Sisak-Moslavina County. There's no doubt, these people need help as soon as possible, as much as possible. We hear from you, too, but I don't think there's a minister in your government who hasn't sought salvation in the eu funds. We could conclude, perhaps, that we are champions in the use of eu funds, we could estimate that we stand best in the EU for the use of eu funds, but you will answer that question and you will give me an assessment that I would not be here to express my subjective position. But let's keep it in order, as it has since 2014. where, therefore, and programmed the first operational programmes in this order, both competitiveness and cohesion were available to us as an RH 215 million kuna to prevent or mitigate the consequences of the earthquake through the above-mentioned operational programme of priority 5 which was intended to mitigate and manage disasters. In the course of programming itself, so as not to assume that it was programmed just this ominously, a professional basis was developed in the form of a study, specifically for this priority. And beware, as interesting as the biggest risk in the Republic of Croatia, the biggest disaster is estimated as an earthquake, of course, because the good part of Croatia is in the thorny area. I'm curious to know how long you've been here since 2014 before the earthquake occurred in March in the City of Zagreb, how much you spent on those 215 million kunas to prevent the consequences that happened. So the earthquake happened after all? [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28001	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28002	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Radolovic, it is good to ask the question of the absorption of European funds, so I will take this opportunity to take advantage of a little, and this afternoon's debate is not a bad thing to repeat, we tell the Croatian public, as well as the parliamentary representatives what the figures are. So, from 2013 to 14 January 2020 in the Republic of Croatia's budget, so so far, in favour of the budget, we have received 37.5 billion kuna, this is total. As to whether we are among the best or not, I will only tell you that when our first government started in October 2016 we were at 9% agreed, we are now at 112% of the contracted funds from the financial framework in 2014-2020. We are when it comes to paid funds, so what has already been paid, at 46%, so at EUR 5 billion paid to the users so far. They're behind us on payments, and we have that information, and I haven't heard from Mr. Grumoy about what you're going to ask, but here I know that, Spain, Slovakia, Italy and Greece, so they're behind us when it comes to the funds paid for it. As far as the next perspective is concerned, we, along with those EU generations, are therefore more than €9.5 billion, 6 billion of cohesion policy grants, so what was the most important provision of €9 billion, so this was all part of our efforts for modern sovereignty, which was spoken of by Mr Pavlikek, who is being strengthened by the state and we fertilising its strength with smart and active policies at international level. That's about 17% of our GDP. There are no other member states that have so much from cohesion policy in the time ahead. It all makes sense because we've made a good argument that we're the last member state, that we have so-called. the task of hunting steps, so... with those countries that were in the Union longer, which had more resources. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I'm still telling you the whole next 10 years. It's waiting for 24 billion. When it comes to the earthquake funds, we are now, and something has been said in the public as well, Minister Tramišak, headed to so-called. the reallocation of the existing financial envelope, amounting to EUR 111 million, not EUR 215 million, which you are talking about, in order to place these funds in the function of rebuilding the earthquake of the affected areas. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is seeking to draw the maximum from the current financial perspective, with the Ministry of Regional Development and European Funds coordinating a similar procedure as for Zagreb in order to first list the damages, then submit a request for the European Solidarity Fund that we will make within the deadline, and I will remind you that for that first disaster we have received already EUR 683 million, which will be significant in financing the amount of nearly 5 billion kunas of various activities related to education, health, transport infrastructure, cultural heritage and institutions. These are all the activities we are doing and it is good to realize how much has been done so far and how much is followed in the years ahead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28003	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28004	Dear Prime Minister, I thank you for answering me that you have not spent a single kuna of the estimated 215 million kunas to prevent even natural disasters and disasters such as earthquakes. Well, I'm glad you also said that we agreed on 112%, so 12% more than expected. I'm just curious about where you're going to get those extra 12%, as I'm curious about where you're going to get 830 million kunas you promised just from the Operational Competitiveness and Cohesion Programme that you're going to finance so all these housing and business facilities in the destroyed areas? I'm glad that the money for people has, of course I do, it needs to help these people, but be honest, you had to make adjustments, it would be fair for the public to say to you and the resolute minister in which the amount of the corrections, to which the subjects are lagged and what are the reasons why certain entities will have to reach deeper into their pockets. And in order not to politicise again and repeat that I am presenting my subjective position, the European Commission rated the Republic of Croatia as the worst in the EU a month and a half ago at the rate of payment for, therefore, agreed projects. So the reason that we've jumped a little bit now, we're not the worst let's say we're third from the bottom because what we've rerouted some of the money to buy medical equipment and the rest to fight the Covid-19 virus and earthquakes, so we've come to a higher level of bargaining, but also payouts, while unfortunately some other subjects, they've been peeled up by corrections because of that, primarily in some order, even JLS whose budgets have already been deeply damaged, by scientific organisations, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28005	Question number 26 of her representative, Ermina Lekai Prlaskaj, will ask Minister of Economy and Sustainable Development Tomislav Ćorić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28006	I would like to thank the President of the Assembly. Dear Mr. Minister, I assume we all agree on the conclusion that future reconstruction will not make any sense unless we keep the population in the earthquake affected areas. One of the proven ways to achieve this goal is to engage as many domestic entrepreneurs as possible in the reconstruction process. At the same time, the fiscal capacity of local self-government units in the area is being strengthened. And my question now is, how do the state institutions in general, and in particular the economy ministry intend to contribute more strongly to the process of rebuilding construction entrepreneurs and construction material producers from the earthquake affected counties? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28007	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28008	Dear MPs, Lecay Splash thank you first of all for your question. So I'll try to answer your question with two recent examples. The first activities on the rescheduling along the Sava River, which are also damaged in several places as well as along the Kupa River, are the first activities. As a general rule, these activities include domestic operations, i.e. the construction sector. As far as the recoverys carried out by Croatian waters are concerned, I am thinking first of all of the recoverys of the water network in the earthquake affected areas is also an intervention domestic operation. Finally, the Environmental Protection and Energy Efficiency Fund signed or will sign contracts with municipal companies from the area of Petrinja, Sisak and Gline, which will be financed by waste management, on the one hand, and the removal or recovery of the waste of up to 50 million kuna. All of these activities involve domestic operations, i.e. the domestic construction sector. Let me take the opportunity to thank this same sector, first of all, entrepreneurs from all over the Republic of Croatia for their original initial engagement, which was on a voluntary basis, where they have jumped in since the first day and are actually helping to clear up this whole time. What follows us is the process of reconstruction, which will first and foremost be led by the Ministry of Construction but regardless of the idea that it is related to this process of renewal, from the very beginning of the initial, initial moment, is that the process itself designs, first and foremost, home-smart, and in this context, Minister Horvat informed us that he has engaged domestic colleges in the design of types of houses that will be built or built in that area on the one hand, and, of course, in the implementation of that renovation, it is clear that the domestic construction sector is the one that is expected of its greatest contribution. Of course, there is absolutely a need to respect the positive acquis or EU rules on public procurement, but regardless of this, the proximity of domestic operations I am sure will allow them to be competitive in these processes and ultimately that the process of rebuilding the affected areas is currently taking place in that desired scenario, and that the scenario will once again remain in Croatia and be an added block to the domestic construction operation. Whether there will be challenges on that path, I'm sure they will. This can first of all be linked to the fact that at this point in Croatia, in the construction process or the realization of agglomeration, a huge part of our construction operation is involved, and what follows us in the coming years is the realization of projects whose value exceeds 20 billion kunas. I am sure that this will be a challenge on the one hand, and on the other hand a good job for all those involved in the process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28009	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28010	Mr. Secretary, I am pleased with your response, and I believe you will agree with me that it is not enough just to rebuild the house, but it is necessary to restore life in an earthquake affected by the area. And it is also the involvement of domicile entrepreneurs that is one of the ways of bringing life back into these areas. So all I can say is that we don't have time to wait, we need to react immediately and I expect from you and the Croatian government that you will do everything you can to make the process a priority for the domestic economy and to activate domestic resources. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28011	Thank you, too. Now it's time for colleague Davor Dretar to ask the question of Health Minister William Berosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28012	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister Beros, last year we witnessed a pandemic that struck the whole world and brought civilization into an unprecedented situation. Unfortunately, even today, regardless of the vaccine and relatively good numbers when we talk about the number of new infected, we cannot fully say that we are close to winning over Covida-19. The only bright spot in the whole situation is our healthcare professionals and all medical personnel who are committed to the benefit of all of us every day. This cannot be said, however, for our health system, which is minus 10 billion kuna and generates a new 200 million kunas of debt each month. As a representative from the 3rd constituency, I must once again point out that your prime minister, before the summer, declared victory over the Covida-19 pandemic, and then this autumn, Varazdinska and Međimurje County were the first in the EU at the rate of the incidence of newly infected. Let me list some more of the horrors of the Croatian health system. Severe cases of wrong or unconscious treatment some with the most severe consequences, medical tests that have been pending for months while patients suffer health problems, and some in the meantime go to another world, huge debts to large-scale drugs that result in the availability of certain medicines to the most severe patients. Many of your directors and other highly-positioned medical staff have private polyclinics, which function profitablely, but in hospitals where they are employed, behold, miracles, losses are achieved. So my question is, when will you start implementing the health reform, are you Mr. Beros, Minister for only one virus or Minister of All Health of the Republic of Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28013	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28014	I would like to thank Mr. President HS, Mr. Honorable and Honorable Mr. Parliamentary Representative. I hope to be the Minister of All Health, not just the Covid Minister. However, such a circumstance occurred that shortly after my appointment here at HS, the Covid crisis began. I hope that my answer, as well as the response of the entire health system, was adequate despite those elements that you mentioned about the movement of the epidemic, sometimes good, sometimes bad, so the fact is that we have witnessed bad results, at one point both in Zagorje and Međimurje and Varazdin County, however, we are now in a better situation, which does not mean that we still need and should not be extremely, extremely careful, therefore no indication of the declaration of victory over this epidemic must be and certainly will not be. We still need to be prepared in that context in which I answered the first question and follow a series of elements that, in some ways, determine our movements and those measures that we bring carefully balancing between the economy, preserving health, etc. You have noted a number of elements that point to a certain dysfunctionality of the health system, which is totally consistent with my words in the appointment and all these years on the financial unsustainability of the health system and certain elements that indicate that we have not passed the transition, adaptation process and that the reforms are really necessary. The fact is, on several occasions, she's apostrophealed and I repeat her now. We have largely established certain steps that would be a reform path, but you will have to give us some more time because at this moment of extreme crisis, which has hit the health system most of the time, we have reacted, I think, at some point as best as possible. The health care system, although bulky, has shown some flexibility, and mainly thanks to its most valuable part, which is health care professionals, nurses, doctors and all unhealthy staff. You mentioned, further, the problem of the waiting list. What I can tell you with pleasure at this point, however, is that we have made certain steps and steps to improve these elements, since a system of information e-ordering has been introduced that excludes the possibility of double ordering which in several different hospitals is optimal or the fastest term for patients, so that we have improved both this system and the results will certainly be made public. What we did next after turning Dubrava into a large clinical hospital center where we had this whole pathology transferred to other hospitals, we established a call center where we solved over several thousand calls and arranged dates for patients who were ordered in Dubrava in other Zagreb institutions, and that went without a problem. Therefore, we are facing great challenges, trying to respond in the best possible way, you are absolutely right when you said that you should continue to work on certain reform steps, and this government is proposing that, for the time being, one package of more comprehensive reform steps be prepared to ensure, primarily, financial stability and sustainability of the health system, and also to maintain its, for the time being, exceptional quality, regardless of what is in the Croatian health system, but everywhere in the world, certain adverse events that are not always due to error or any negligence, or organisational circumstances, but simply because health and medicine is not mathematics and 2 and 2 are rare when 4, all these are circumstances that should be taken into account. The idea of this government certainly is to improve Croatian health system. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28015	Here's an indication. Turn off, Minister, just please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28016	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister Beroš, but let me, despite your impressive rhetorical skills and the fact that we are almost in favour of most of the issues, i.e. what are the problems of Croatian health, still do not be satisfied with your answer, of course from my political and human position, and to call you once again, and of course to a party where you and your entire ministry are more determined, firmer, quality moves that will bring Croatian health, i.e. the right of Croatian people, every resident of Croatia to an adequate, fast and quality medical service. The fact is that we're in a situation where people are waiting to search for months, even, on social networks, we're going to be able to spread some of these files, like, if the right to a magnetic resonance can be inherited in the family, hopefully we can work it out. But still, I'm calling you as Minister, so as to put it, add gas. I will give just one small example from KB Osijek which pays millions of dollars on intellectual and legal representation services. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth Paschild's law firm charged half a million kunas for legal representation and that lost large majority of these disputes. So start small steps because there are no big steps. Thank you very much, but I will still have to express my dissatisfaction and ask for an answer in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28017	I now call on Representative Sinisha Jankac to ask the question of Defence Minister Marija Banozic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28018	... President of HS, the Honorable Minister. [[Specially enabled.]] We see that the Croatian Army is heavily engaged in the earthquake of affected areas. Can you explain to us a little more how much force in these areas has been involved, how the military has met these challenges, and how the military will continue to be engaged in the earthquake of affected areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28019	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28020	The Honorable President of HS, the Honorable Parliamentary MPs and MPs. Since the unfortunate moment when the earthquake occurred in Sisak-Moslavina County, when they lost seven lives in that earthquake when there was great material damage, the Croatian Army has been involved since the first moments, I would rather say in this phase of stabilizing the situation on the ground in those first 48 hours, in which more than 1500 soldiers and soldiers who, above all, came and selflessly helped everyone else, first of all, to remove dangerous waste that threatened all citizens and citizens and in Petrinja and in Finland and in Sisak and all other settlements, but also participated in the rehabilitation of traffic and various services so that other services could approach the earthquake and solve all the problems they found with them. So in these 1500 members, we included certain teams that served first and foremost for the most needed ones, which are people in nursing homes that we then placed in a military facility in Petrinja and transporting patients from the petrinic or mammalian hospitals for which we put and hired two helicopters. With two helicopters at that time, we were transporting more than 150 GSS members to help the unhappy. The same day also included our intelligence regiment with the Orbiter system and unmanned drones in order to record the situation on the ground with thermal vision devices and help the services that have already been engaged in the rescue of all those injured. Also today, this situation is much easier because we have organised ourselves in collaboration with the Civil Protection Headquarters, we have defined one whole team in front of the main headquarters involved in defining the activities of the task together with the headquarters. We also formed an operational centre within a military centre in Petrinja where, in collaboration with the headquarters of the tactical operating centre, we plan all tasks and put into the engagement of different units. In this case, it is more than 2,300 soldiers who have been poisoned by various tasks that I will now highlight only some. More than 11.5 km of various roads, slides, more than 145 containers, 52 mobile homes on the most inaccessible terrains were also prepared to dig and transport more than 8,500 cubic metres of waste to prepare the sites for accommodation... containers and mobile homes. We also had more than 400 different civilians in the military, now there are some 136 others I think with today's day we took care of along with the Red Cross and helped share humanitarian aid to all those who were needed at that time. Also help volunteers at that point in preparing all those packages and all that was needed. Through our mechanized regiment, we removed all the necessary facilities that they sent with the task and thus visited more than 208 settlements. The Croatian military also gave the four kitchens that were needed at that time, which were later withdrawn to the home military when food was organised in a completely different way. And in this we will participate in all that is agreed with the civil protection headquarters until the end, as long as it is necessary, thus helping all those who are unhappy, and also show that the Croatian army still has its ability. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28021	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28022	Dear Minister. I'm happy with your answer. Here it is visible, and recently we had on the Parliament's agenda a report on the state of the Croatian army from which significant investments were visible both in this government and in the last government are precisely in equipment and equipment renewal. I think it is these moves, and this is the insistence of the Croatian government that after many years, and we had here a consensus in HS to go in a good direction, it is evident that the activities carried out by the Croatian military are thanks to investing in the Croatian army and the operationality they showed on these non-combative activities that it was excellent. And here I congratulate you on good leadership in the ministry, congratulate all those who participated and still participate in all the activities in the field, and here I encourage you to continue with the good organisation of the army, the renewal of equipment that will be able to meet all the challenges of both fighting and not fighting that we will hope not, but in case the RH happens then we will be ready. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28023	We now go to the third representative in this small Zagorje bloc, respected counterpart Sinisa Hajdas Doncic, the question points to Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28024	The speakers speak at the same time, they don't understand. But before I ask the Honorable Prime Minister a question, I'm a little surprised that the current defence minister, and I didn't notice that with Mr. Krstičevic, nor any Mr. Kotromanovic is being followed by an active military person, so he takes pictures of him. He's probably doing some reports for Croatian soldiers or something. But let's get back to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28025	You want us to call you back?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28026	No, I'm not just thinking of letting me comment on something, it's kind of weird out there in the assembly, so here, we're just surprised, maybe it's some new trends, but it doesn't matter at all. My dear Prime Minister or Prime Minister, you've recently been as expected of you as an earthquake-stricken area, and then you mentioned there that you have an extensive, now don't get me wrong about whether the filters were on or something else that I can notice in a second who are these red, yellow, white devils who are working on decommissioning the state as you like to say or have some kind of special agenda, so your words. So I'm just curious how if you hadn't noticed that lately, in the last 4.5 years, in all the state institutions that are owned by HDZ, we've had less and less capable, competent, professional and growing numbers of incompetent, so party listeners who actually do what you mentioned with their incompetence to do exactly what you mentioned, demonize the state? Or in order for everyone to understand, and especially you, that there must be a healthy people's mistrust in the government, but the code unfortunately turns into toxic cynicism and maybe you contribute to that, too, to your statements about various different conspiracies. But to get back to the core, so why haven't you been building inclusive institutions in the last five, six years, so which are...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28027	Thank you. Time's up. ... [[I don't know what you're talking about.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28028	So my question is, how did all your monks not see it coming? No, you're right, which is, is. [[Break president: colleague Hajdash.]] Which it is, it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28029	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28030	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Highash Doncic, but I haven't actually heard your question, the deadline has expired. ... And, impulsively, you as a reader of this foreign literature when we meet here at Mark's square, alluding to Harvard's agile management, did I well recognize what you wanted to translate as impulsive institutions? [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] The most important thing to me is that my dear representative, we understand each other well. So I can tell you after this now for almost 4.5 years and comparing our mandate to when you were a minister, there seems to be no area where we haven't done more than you have. There isn't. From...... Not you personally, but this, SDP, this as many as you are, 31, seems to me after the last elections and not all of you, of course, participated in it, but it's good to remind you, you're one of those one time suspended who took part in it. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] But what matters is what's next. What's important is that by the time we got to the pandemic of the Coronal Virus, we had practically plus in every aspect, people had higher average salaries, we had higher minimum salaries, we had continuous growth of 3%, we had and we still have it, investment credit ratings, we reduced public debt, we secured a budget surplus, we accelerated the absorption of European funds, we started a number of reforms in all sectors, and then this 2020 came in which we showed what I said several times, the strength of the state, and that sentence is essentially a light motif of what I want to say. Why am I saying that? And in fact, I think you agree with me here. So a state that has been internationally recognised and independent for only 30 years must still build its institutions. There must be agile people in them, impulsive people who move things and make reforms that are in the public interest and that's the point of ours, so I'd say, and... and my public engagement. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And you're parties I think we've made steps that are more than obvious and in this year which is behind us, we've shown how much the state can do for its citizens when faced with an unforeseeable environment, when the private sector has no money to pay, when the private sector has no money to bridge the liquidity problem, and then the state comes here when it needs to be taxed, when it needs to take a step that will take advantage of European funds and national resources and make something that we've never had before, while not losing investment credit ratings, keep stable trends, go towards ERM II, go towards the introduction of the euro in Croatia, go towards the Schengen area, go into deeper integration. Now this may also happen because of some impulses that exist in the administration, it may not be the administration or government that you support, but they exist, there are agile people, people who use time, who have been given the majority confidence of Croatian voters to make these steps. I'm not saying that we're perfect at all, I'm not saying that we've solved everything, but what I can say is that we're fighting for everyone, and especially for those who are our fellow citizens now in an earthquake affected areas, and we're going to help them, and I'm going to believe with your support. Here's by passing new laws and measures ahead of us. That's what I'd say, that's the message I was talking about about the power of the state and as far as these political radars are concerned, I'm very good at reasoning, very good. Very good.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28031	Thank you. There you go, the obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28032	Yeah, I'm glad so, of course... between something the SDP will always support and that is what is good for Croatia, which is good for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and what we consider to be bad, and I will always do it very politely or perhaps with which sentence more to show you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But I'll just distract you, so I'll just read about the so-called. Inclusive or expert institutions, that there is one document from 2019 called Risk Assessment of Major Accidents for Sisak-Moslavina County. There you literally write the training of the people of civil protection is very low. Operations very low, logistics very low, Red Cross operationality very low, logistics very low, members of the Civil Protection Unit did not pass through the prescribed training programme, are not equipped with either basic or other equipment. See, that's why I'm telling you about institutions and people who, unfortunately, I know that you can't help yourself because it's hard to run one political party, which I can admit to you, and of course it happens to you that you have local HDZ officials and their own don't know, they don't know, they don't, they don't, they don't, they don't know how many people in the field, they don't know how much water there is, they don't know if there't have any military, they don't know if there't know if there's an armature in the concrete and they're all round, or they're going to repeat it because we think that good society has to rest on good institutions and what you like to say is so-called. "the principle of phasing out", to quote you. So it would be good if you went to the principle of phasing out and put both professional and capable people in those places, to state institutions, so without party similarities. Thank you very much, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28033	Let's go to the 30th question, Agent Anton Kliman will ask the Minister of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure Oleg Butkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28034	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I refer the issue to Minister Oleg Butkovic, the Croatian Government led by HDZ, and in particular the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure is strongly present in the Istrian County with the realization of many infrastructure projects. One of the most significant is the completion of the full profile of the Istrian ipsilon and the beginning of the drilling of the second tube tunnel through Učka whose beginning we were present about a month ago. In some ways, investment in road infrastructure in Istria as far as the Istrian ipsilon is concerned is being rounded up by this early breach of the second tunnel pipe through Učka. The Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure also significantly invests in the development of maritime transport through the arrangement of ports and ports across the Istrian coast, as well as in the airport in Pula year by year records a significant growth of passengers except for 2020 for notor reasons. However, the issue of investments in modernising and revitalising the Istrian railway remains open in Istria, which I believe is the untapped great potential in travel and economic terms. The Istrian railways have not been invested for decades and they are indeed in a derivative state and I believe it is necessary to invest along with the same notice you will allow the same investment and relatively fast and return by respecting the tourist and economic potential of Istria County. In the announcement of large investment in Istria, in rail infrastructure until 2030 from the EU funds you announced, and with the announcement of investments and in the concrete Istrian railway, did you start considering the plan and start making concrete moves on the preparation for investment in the Istrian railway?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28035	Minister Oleg Butkovic's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28036	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. As far as the construction of transport infrastructure is concerned, it is now around 25 billion kuna in the Republic of Croatia and we can thank that for all prepared projects, but also for the possibility of funding such projects by the EU and of course international credit institutions. As far as Istria is concerned, you mentioned in your question the largest, one of the largest infrastructure projects, which is the completion of the Istrian Ipslon whose full profile to Učka tunnel from the Istrian side will be opened by this tourist season in 2021, and at the end of 2020, the construction of the second pipe of Učka infrastructure project worth about 200 million EUR whose completion with the extension towards Matulji will be completed by about 2023. As for railways and investment in railways, today investments are about a billion and a half euros across Croatia and mainly all transport investments, mainly from this and the following financial perspectives will go towards the railway because we have rounded the highway infrastructure mainly, finished and the airports, the sea ports are being built, but what remains is the modernisation of the railway and there is a plan to invest around EUR 3 billion by 2030. When I talk about Istria, we are the entire investment in transport infrastructure precisely in the mandate of this government is manifested not only in Istria, but throughout Croatia. When I look at the railroad and this question of yours on your initiative, and I know that you contacted me several times and we had a meeting last week on that topic with HZ Infrastructure because our goal in Istria is to restore existing infrastructure and quickly connect to Rijeka on the Mediterranean corridor. In this sense is the modernisation of the existing railway R101 that goes from Pula to Pazin, Lupoglav, Buzet and towards the Slovenian border, its length of the existing railway is about 90 km and HZ Infrastructure will start to produce study documentation that is a prerequisite for such a single project to receive European funding. And secondly, it is also in the implementation of an agreement on L213 processing activities Lupoglav-Rasa, which we are doing in cooperation with the Rijeka port administration, where the cost-effectiveness study is also about funding towards the EU. What goes into this 2021 World Bank loan is investment in existing railway crossings that is the program that we started with the World Bank, it's somewhere around 12 million kuna and it's going to happen in 2021. To conclude, as regards the integration of the same into the road infrastructure transport system, it is defined, it is the construction of the second pipe of Učka tunnel, the completion of the Istrian ipsilon and the development of project and study documentation for the modernisation of the railway line in Istria and, of course, in the near future, which is our ultimate goal of connecting to the Mediterranean corridor, or according to Rijeka. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28037	Thank you. Your Honor, Agent Kleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28038	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I am extremely pleased with your response, Mr. Minister, here I would say that as we end the Istrian ipilon I hope that this is a good start for the Istrian railways, that we will come at a time within these deadlines as we said in 2030 when we will be able to say that we have circled absolutely modernisation and integration of all traffic routes and all traffic routes, with all traffic to the Republic of Croatia to integrate, but not only with Croatia but with the whole EU. In any case, this is great information for the public in Istria that it has started, that the preparations for the preparation have started, about the preparation for the outcome of the documentation and the recording of the state of the Istrian railway, and I hope that the public will welcome it. Thank you very much again.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28039	Thank you. The next question will be asked by respected representative Zarko Tušek, Minister of Economy and Sustainable Development Dr. Tomislav Coric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28040	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. We are all aware of the frameworks in which our economies, our businessmen, entrepreneurs and craftsmen operate in this pandemic year, of course, that the focus this year was primarily on preserving the health of every human being, especially the small, medium-sized enterprises, as well as the world globally did what, through national instruments, through our case, institutionally great efforts to preserve the vitality of the economy, especially that small, medium-sized entrepreneurship, crafts that may be in this crisis, perhaps the most endangered. Unfortunately, what happened to us here in Croatia, especially northwestern Croatia, central Croatia and in the Banovina area, is a tragedy of the earthquake that has further weakened the investment and economic potential of our economy of our entrepreneurs and craftsmen in general, and we know that this area of Banovina is also deficiting and has developmental difficulties. That is why I am asking a concrete question which is the measures that you as a ministry are proposing, design, create on one side to help these businessmen, entrepreneurs and craftsmen from the Banovina area and Sisak-Moslavina County who are most threatened in the context of the earthquake tragedy, but also generally what you suggest as a ministry, what you are designing and what you create in order to make it possible for us to perform in the next economic year of 2021, in which we have already come and what our economies can expect as a support for strengthening their investment, for their economy to be as foreseeable as possible in the segment of the recovery of what is behind us, and in the segment of development that is ahead of us. Well, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28041	Dear Minister of Economy and Sustainable Development Ćoric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28042	Thank you very much. Representative Tušek, allow me to share the answer to your question in two parts. First of all, the measures taken as a result of the shock that our economy experienced during the Covid-19 virus pandemic, so I will first and foremost refer to the fact that we have also done so by the Ministry of Labour of Col. Aladrović, but also within the competence of the Ministry of Economy through the credit lines and HAMAG BICRA and Croatian Banks for Reconstruction and Development, in order to enable our entrepreneurs to be prepared for the post-phase, which is the opening of the economy and economic recovery. There I would stress the measure of 4,000 kuna on the one hand, on the other hand also the settlement of fixed costs as you know about our entrepreneurs most affected by this crisis, but also the loans of HAMAG BICRA Covid-19 program which is in the context of the second part of your question, which is about the earthquake that hit our areas of Sisak and Banovina, which caused additional damage. In this context we reacted immediately as quickly as possible through the enlargement of the Covid-19 programme so that those from the Sisak-Moslavina County and their loan requirements would be processed as soon as possible and to enable them to have liquidity. On the other hand, we put down a ladder for a few counties that belong to this so-called. The first group, given its level of development and thus made it easier for entrepreneurs from all these counties to arrive at liquidity. I will also highlight the programme that will actually be of an intervening nature and will be published in the next two weeks, a programme of 10 million kuna, which the ministry has drawn up on its items, and above all in the direction of equipment or refurbishment of space or damage in those areas. We are talking about micro and small entrepreneurs who have several thousand, of course, craftsmen in the area of Sisak-Moslavina County or affected areas. The idea is to help them with the 30 000 kuna intervention in this first phase in which their business was disabled due to the damage they suffered due to equipment failures or the destruction of equipment to renovate equipment for their crafts or small and micro-enterprises. As regards our long-term measures, the Croatian economy in the next phase under normal operating conditions must be focused on sustainable development or on achieving higher rates of development within a long time period which also implies the reorientation of the national economy and the change of its structure. And that's why we're holding a very important competition that we're going to open hopefully early in the second quarter of this year. It is a competition that, with a billion-and-a-half kuna, should allow, above all, an increase in production capacity or the rise of their technological level or digitalisation of the process in Croatian companies, to create their long-term competitiveness. As regards our plans for the next period, the National Recovery and Resistance Programme is a perfect opportunity to channel part of the funding from this part of the multiannual financial framework towards entrepreneurship or the economic sector, and that is why the Ministry of Economy within our plans, internal consultations At the government level, he insists that as much of this envelope as possible go towards [[Intruder: Thank you.]] To us. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28043	Dear Representative Tušek.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28044	I thank you for your reply to the Minister and, otherwise, we communicate and talk about it so that I am aware of your efforts and should absolutely commend them both by intervention and by what happened in this situation I am speaking in the context of the earthquake itself, but it is generally necessary to say that the vast majority of the economic and entrepreneurial community of the Republic of Croatia is very real and ground-based in their demands and their needs can greatly appreciate the measures and instruments that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has made behind us in order to maintain the liquidity of the Croatian economy and to preserve jobs. So in that sense, I think there's a quality and serious joint job behind us, and everyone who's ever been involved in this business should be congratulated. What I just wanted to mention for a year and for the time ahead is this category of predictability. It is terribly important that businessmen, entrepreneurs and craftsmen, especially in this complex and difficult time, can reasonably know what operational programmes are expected, in which they are expected, which will be the financial amount of these programmes, which will eventually go through our supporting financial institutions, HBOR and Hamag Bicro. Of course, through commercial banks, because in this year when it is really necessary to restart this economic congestion, this very predictability can involve more businessmen, entrepreneurs in the recovery process and in some ways strengthen them to start preparing for the time ahead. In that sense, here we go, full support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28045	And now representative Josip Begonja will question the respected minister of regional development and EU Fund Natashi Tramišak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28046	... Honored President, Honorable Prime Minister, members of the government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Minister's question, namely, in November of last year, the Ministry of Regional Development concluded a contract with the Faculty of Economics in Osijek on the development of a new index of development of units of local and regional self-government. In short, I will remind you that according to the adopted methodology produced by the CLER House and the Faculty of Economics in Rijeka in 2017, 11 units of local self-government fell out of a group of assisted areas, but according to a number of indicators, they are still areas that need state aid. I am interested in whether the new calculation of these areas will be included in groups of assisted areas, because, for example, because of indicators of the degree of education of persons with VSS 20-65 years of age as one of 6 indicators, in the calculation of development, it led, for example, to the city of Drniš, because there are 6.42 index points more educated with the VSS than the average of the Republic of Croatia, and according to the other 5 indicators cumulatively should still be a assisted area, it has led to us no longer in the assisted area, and it is about the space that was occupied during the Homeland War, burned, destroyed, destroyed, one word, devastated. Here, I'd like to ask you your answer in which direction the new development index will go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28047	Minister Tramišak's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28048	Thank you. Your Honor, Representative Begonja. So, as you mentioned, I calculate the development index and according to the Regional Development Act, it is carried out every 3 years. Therefore, in 2017, a certain methodology was established, at which point a methodology for calculating the index of the development of units of local and regional (regional) self-government, with 304 units of local self-government identified as an assisted area, i.e. those 4 first group of indevelopment below the average of the Republic of Croatia. What's important here, specifically for Drnis himself, is that a preliminary analysis is now being done according to this methodology where we have already established that, if we keep the existing methodology, there will be no significant changes again. However, there is the possibility of introducing new indicators that, with these 6 indicators that speak about average sources of income, movement, general population movement, age and age groups, by local self-government units or education rates, would introduce new elements that would, in a more realistic way, show a real state by individual units of local self-government or that minimum level of municipal equipment, which is actually cared for by every unit of local self-government. So, along with communal equipment, we would include the availability of primary health care, as well as pre-school education and primary education. That would give us a more real picture. It certainly means the Ministry of Regional Development's intention to obtain relevant data and then to make a new evaluation and calculation of the development and classification index so units of local and regional self-government. In addition, and now it may be important to mention, related to the status of assisted areas itself, what is actually very important for all units of local self-government is the use and availability of European Structural and Investment Funds in order, of course, to achieve a better quality at a better level of development. He mentioned our Prime Minister that we are at 113% of the agreement in the current programme by 2020, the reason for this greater agreement is certainly a certain number of savings on the very same grant contracts where users do not realise their resources in carrying out their activities. Furthermore, when we talk about corrections, they make up one smaller amount, which is only 1% and that is data at the Ministry of Regional Development and additionally, large projects that must now be phased into a new period because in 2013, when major projects are envisaged in operational programmes, there was no complete documentation prepared for the European Commission to approve all projects. The documentation has been prepared, while the process of implementation and selection decisions have passed towards the EC, contracts have been signed at later stages and are now in realisation. Following all of this, projects continue to be negotiated in order to achieve 100% use of available European funds in the programming period until 2020, and in addition to what you asked for the status of assisted areas, we have a decision by the Government of the Republic of Croatia last November to work on the 3rd operational programme and it is an integrated territorial operational programme, precisely so that our municipalities, our municipalities and cities can participate even more concrete and quality in the design of operational programmes themselves and the use of European Structural and Investment Funds in the new programming period 2021-2027. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28049	The Honorable representative of Begonja.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28050	Thank you. I'm pleased with the reply of the esteemed minister. Just one note. If this factor remains in the degree of education of persons from VSS per capital, it is noted that young people from rural areas go to major cities for studies, most often remain in those environments after the completion of the university, and their personal residence documents remain at old addresses, which creates an unrealistic picture or much different in nature than they actually are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28051	Now agent Gary Cappelli will ask the Minister of Foreign and European Affairs, the respected Dr. Gordan Grlic Radman.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28052	Thank you very much, Vice President HS, Prime Minister, Minister. Dear Ministers of Foreign and European Affairs, as we know tomorrow is the inauguration in the United States and of course the entire international community has turned a blind eye to what will take place from tomorrow, then onward. We are witnessing these days of shocking events in the United States, especially in the context of an attack on Congress by supporters of President Donald Trump's departure, which has led many countries international organisations to show serious concern and to call for respect for democratic principles. In the last few months, Trump also took steps that clearly disrupt relations with China, and some countries that have sensitive unresolved bilateral issues have brought the situation even more incomprehensible. There are, of course, the moves of withdrawing the United States from climate agreements such as the Paris Agreement, as well as others of great importance. If we also add to this the importance that the Republic of Croatia has in relations with America, which is the exemption programme from visas, the Double Taxation Avoidance Agreement, the economic co-operation that has been since 2019. 5% higher somewhere at 650 million dollars, so LNG terminal and co-operation in the area of defense. My question is, how do you see the future of transatlantic relations, especially after confirming the congress these days of Joe Biden for the President of the United States, which are the expectations of further development of EU and US relations, and in all this, of course, the interest of the Republic of Croatia's relations with the United States? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28053	Minister Grlic Radman's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28054	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Representative, Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The United States is a global actor, a stalemate of peace, freedom, democracy, paradigm in the international community, in the international order, an active advocate and a participant, and certainly it was in the interest of the world's public precisely the confirmation of the president, surely we are not used to these scenes that happened and we think that this will be in focus primarily means finding the causes of this crisis, the riots that took place on January 6th, and of course also with the biggest crisis the pandemic of the country that actually has the most infected and dead. Here we have the other day recorded 4470 dead, in 5 days 20,000 means it's big, it's a pandemic, and in the announcement of Biden that in the first 100 days, they'll be able to get 100 million doses of vaccines talking about what it's really about Biden's administration. Of course, the role of the United States is unimaginable without an active policy, therefore, in strengthening the external dimension because we are used to seeing the United States as an active world leader when it comes to protecting peace, security, democracy, and for sure that what you have initially stated, we have made it known to strengthen transatlantic ties, in fact, what we expect, above all, is the visibility and clearer role of the United States in NATO, above all in military security, and including, of course, migration and the fight against terrorism, these are our European policies. Of course, the return to the Paris Climate Agreement is certainly one announcement so we expect Biden himself to be working together again, in fact these are the goals and actually those elements that connect us, and of course we expect to improve traditional economic, economic cooperation with the EU, but above all also with Germany. When we talk about foreign policy, it is certain that the issue of the Middle Eastern crisis without a share or participation of the United States is also unimaginable. We expect a permanent return to, therefore, a nuclear deal with Iran so that the crisis in the Middle East can be successfully resolved. Of course, strengthening the coalition towards China and towards third countries together with the EU is primarily a traditional ally of the United States and the EU. What you have said is that Croatian, Croatian interests, what no government has succeeded so far, it is an exception to the visa regime to enter the programme and we expect that soon the State Secretariat will bring official information that Croatia has met this requirement below 30%, we have heard unofficial data 2.7% which will allow Croatian citizens to go away and do business, and, of course, the Agreement on the avoidance of double taxation will above all benefit business people and better business cooperation in the economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28055	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28056	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. It's important as you said at the end to step up when the opportunity comes, so after this covid crisis, to strengthen the possibility of a tourist coming back to the Republic of Croatia, let's not forget the fact that about half a million tourists are coming to the Republic of Croatia from the United States, that we've launched direct planes after 30 years. Practically, it is very important to restart these initiatives and return, therefore, this international transport of tourism and everything. A recent US newspaper also shows that Croatia is as one of the first 11 eligible for American citizens for this year. So, I say by bringing down the crisis and pressing everything around Covid-19 we can certainly say optimistic results that we can expect from both the US tourism market and, of course, by establishing as we have said again contacts so air traffic which is very important for the south of Croatia, which is for Dubrovnik which most tourists are now receiving from the British and American markets. Of course, we expect better co-operation, as the head of the EU Commission has said, that far better relations are expected with Biden's administration compared to the previous one, and that these will be strengthened, these are also true in all other fields, in particular the economic but defence issue and everything else. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28057	The 34th issue of MP Marijana Petir will ask Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Zdravko Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28058	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Government, the area of Sisak-Moslavina County, particularly Banovina, which had not experienced its revitalisation for 25 years after the Homeland War and which daily faced a demographic breakdown of the entire family's working-age population, social exclusion, educational obstacles, inequality, over-exploitation of raw materials and natural resources, spatial Stigmatisation, traffic incontinence was struck by a devastating earthquake. Unfortunately, the earthquake took human lives, caused major damage to residents in their homes, destroyed public infrastructure, numerous sacral objects and cultural heritage facilities, hit 900 craftsmen and entrepreneurs, over 1650 farmers registered in the register. The Sisak-Moslavina County in which Banovina is located is about 41% of EU average 27 GDP and in order to change and raise the need for investment. In its work programme, the government stressed that it would pay special attention to areas that have a problem with depopulation and poor development, including Banovina. I am interested in Vice-President of the Government for what targeted and strategic setting up of demographic, population, housing, social and tax policies the Government of the Republic of Croatia will undertake to support young families to stay alive in the country, to facilitate business for farmers and craftsmen and to support more strongly the development of agriculture and wood industry that have a perspective in the region and to help revitalise Banovina But also the entire Sisak-Moslavina County. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28059	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28060	Thank you very much, President. Dear MPs, thank you very much for asking the question and for all the comments you have made. I think it's extremely important and valuable in these circumstances to say a few reasons you've counted well, it can be further and with numerical indicators I'd say and strengthen, but of all these figures given the limited time in response I think you should single out a few of the most important ones. On the one hand, this is a demographic issue, and this is a question of the number of inhabitants, so the very structure of the population in Sisak-Moslavina County, with a particular emphasis on Banovina, which you mentioned, but also on economic indicators, along with the already mentioned data on the degree of development of an economical domestic product by the head of the population and comparison with the average of the Republic of Croatia, but also on the EU average. I would further point out that, just before the start of the Covid crisis and the outbreak of the virus in Croatia itself, as regards the unemployment rate in Sisak-Moslavina County, it was almost twice as much as it was and was the average of the Republic of Croatia. So, all of what you said about this opening part of me actually means that the government has well recognised in its programme that it will pay special attention to Banovina, Sisak-Moslavina County, but also to some other parts of the Republic of Croatia to contribute to a more even regional development. Unfortunately, there has also been an earthquake that has brought first of all something that unfortunately we can't bring back, it's human lives, but everything else I think we need and we need to get back. So, on the one hand, we're talking, of course, about physical restoration, so it restores the infrastructure of houses and all that, but it's also equally valuable, perhaps even more valuable, both economic and demographic revitalization. Last week, the government made one decision on the appointment of a task force headed by counterpart Tramišak and co-worker Ćorić, but inside, we are all involved together, so one of the governments can say immediately recognized as a multidisciplinary approach, therefore to a problem that is very complex, but also comprehensive. Of course, parliamentary representatives from that area and the academic community and the economic, craft chamber, employers' association and all those who can contribute to their valuable advice, comments, suggestions, precisely what we are talking about, and this is one comprehensive way to approach the revitalisation but not just, I repeat once more, not just physically, but to the one we are talking about in demographic, economic, social at the end. Each of us needs to make a contribution, of course, it's what I think is a really strong imperative, so also of these segments that you've singled out, I can say in the section of the Ministry of Finance tax policy, tax policy and so far, and now, especially, I've had to give and will continue to give my incentives. I will remind you, for example, about demographic revitalisation from that first round of tax changes where by raising basic personal deductions and increasing the coefficients for dependent members of children, we have contributed precisely to the recognition through the tax system in some way to encourage demographic recovery to the last measure that has come into effect, and what effects will be seen this year, and these measures of liberation were fully 50% of the income tax for young people. These are just some of the measures, but also given the newly created activities or circumstances, both in the form and in the scope of the tax policy and all other common forces as we have said, so comprehensively, but also multidisciplinaryly to act on this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28061	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28062	I thank you, Deputy Prime Minister, for your response and for all the activities you take along with other members of the government to keep people in the Banovina area, but also the entire Sisak-Moslavina County and give them the guarantee that this concern is not short-term. The rapid and quality restoration of their homes should certainly include domestic craftsmen and businessmen, domestic labour and domestic material. I also think that our area needs special tax treatment, but also a promise that will be made that our resources and our potential can be used in the best possible way for our people, their families, their jobs and their future. To do this, we must use wisely what we have Petrochemy in Kutina as I could say the fin of the chemical industry, then Gavrilovic in Petrinja and HIP in Glina as the leading food industry. We have a wooden centre in Glina and PPS Galeković in... as the leaders of our wooden industry, Siscio in Sisak, which is a recognised textile brand, we have a gaming industry in Novska, preserved nature followed by an extensive way of agriculture, Nature Park Lonjsko polje, Moslavačka gora as a regional park, beautiful wooden architecture, rich history and cultural heritage and potential for the development of continental tourism. We have great craftsmen and entrepreneurs, we have extremely valuable and hardworking people, and I think you might have noticed very modest ones. That's why we need long-term and strategic support at all levels of government including the state to succeed. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28063	Let's move on, now it's MP Tomislav Tomasevic who will question Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28064	Thank you. I'm interested in Prime Minister. I have a direct question and I expect a direct answer. I wonder if you consider the Croatian state to belong to HDZ? Why do I ask you that? First, we see in the HDZ presidency that you see criticism from us in opposition to HDZ as a coup against the state, that you see criticism of the country's response after the earthquake as some kind of a country's denial that you actually qualify us as state enemies, and media that are critical of post-war reconstruction in Bania, not Banovina as sponsors of the foundations of statehood. At the same time HDZ Mayor, despite having owned several properties, lives in a state-owned home and he has it as the most normal thing,...it's his right. It's so normal for him to defend himself for free living in that house by paying the director's fee. Watch the paradox, you made a decision yesterday in the Government to free the citizens of Bania who were affected by the earthquake from paying for directors in these difficult winter conditions, while at the same time the mayor and the county not far from Gline lived in a home in state property for free and boasted that he at least paid for all these years of directing. So I ask you once again as Prime Minister, but also as HDZ President, do you think that the Croatian state is owned by HDZ and therefore anyone who is against HDZ is automatically against this state?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28065	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28066	Thank you very much. Representative Tomaševic, I expected a little more from you, not some of these trivial questionnaires you're gleaning on the media, I must admit that you're not exactly at my level of moment. As for the commentary and the political speech that we all speak together in public, I stand behind everything I say. The fact that you're able to speak up in the House I hear that something was in HDZ is quite pretentious. You may have been involved in Zoom, so you listened to who was saying or giving the trust to someone else's interpretation of the whole debate? I don't know what your political party has become as some movement more or less in the City of Zagreb against Milan Bandic or as former members of the NGO GONG and I don't know yet the cultural activists you are already discussing at your meetings? What do you think political parties should do, do you say that any current political situation or topic is expected that people who are parliamentary representatives of government members, heads at some local level of county need to discuss the current situation a little bit or not. Is that normal? I think so. Do you, as politicians, allow us to have a position, an analysis, a synthesis, an assessment of who does what, and for what purpose? If you're looking at this reading team that's been coming to the current clock for years with a pre-written question, which is probably by some PR agency and then a prewritten written response, and they're able to read it, what is it? Is that an agenda? So they don't care what anybody answered, they don't care what the reality is, it's just stick to the label. Well, that's those radars, so if the agenda of all of these readers here are acting, and some of them were speeders asking political questions in a way that they already know in advance about this 2+4+2 methodology that you have the last word, so maybe there's something left, we know that. Let's see this afternoon when it's 1:1 what happens then,...so we all know it together in the political game, you're all fighting, but we're fighting, too, and we're going to figure out what. Your thesis on whether we think that HDZ is a state, so of course we don't think, HDZ is a political party, a political party that exists, unlike you, for 30 years, which has participated in all key processes for the modern Croatian state. I think you're okay with that. Does that mean we're identifying HDZ with the state? No, I don't. Do we think that our political opponents, other parties, are the destroyers of the state? No, I don't. But we're also here not to allow the collapse of trust in all institutions. Here, for example. Red Cross. So the Red Cross was hit, like there was some organization where they weren't volunteers, you were also a volunteer now at Banovina, maybe there you met some volunteers of the Red Cross. So you saw that those people who are there, maybe they're not exactly from the city or municipality where they are, but they came from other parts of Croatia to volunteer all the time. Is it normal to have a hickey on the Red Cross? I mean, I don't think so, and I stand up to it, and I will stand up to it. So, doing a distinction between trying to demonstrate any institutional engagement, and it's huge and political action of a party, it's clear to me and we'll clearly articulate those views, so these banal jokes you're trying to make to say that HDZ is equal to the state, it can no longer pass you anywhere. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28067	Thank you very much. There you go, the obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28068	So I was talking about what was publicly leaked from your presidency, which I don't see even that my colleague Jandrokovic denied, he just qualified it as in interpretations as stupid statements, but I don't see that anything was effectively denied from what was said, and where my party was mentioned. Apparently, he didn't deny it. So when we talk about it, about the level of the task and the criticism, which is the criticism, where the criticism ceases, and the country begins to demonstrate, I don't think you can determine or have any right to it as Prime Minister. Speaking of the height of the task, let's remember what HDZ officials said two weeks after the earthquake. What were they saying? To eat too much in Banja and to cook too much and to eat those who shouldn't. Too much and irrationally warming up people in Bania, too many volunteers helping out, and then getting in the way of Bania. And in the same way, all of that was too much, and if someone said that something was too little in the state's response, that means the government's response to the government that runs the country after the earthquake, it's immediately expected to be knifed. Someone says that in Zagreb, the 10 months after the earthquake is delayed, there is still no renewal in Zagreb around, a state enemy. Someone criticises that she did not organize a state diet immediately in the area, a few days after the earthquake, a state enemy. That's what I'm talking about. So in each, every normal government criticises if it's generally well on its mind, it uses to advance the system. For example, the civil protection system. Like you said, I was in Banja, and I saw best in the field what worked and didn't. And I haven't said a word in 10 days, and I haven't publicly praised or criticized it. Afterwards, I commended that it was good, including the local Red Cross in Clay, repeatedly publicly commended, which you mentioned both the military and the police and the fire department and the HGSS, but I was also dissatisfied with the civil protection system as it manages the crisis and co-ordinates, as it is centralised, there was no information. So from that perspective, It's a criticism to improve things and that [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Every normal government should be in the interest of [[Thank you very much.]] not to reject every criticism as [[Thank you very much.]] Then the collapse of the state. [[Intruder: Comrade Tomašević, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28069	Your time is up, 12 seconds. Please hold, like all other agents of the time. And as you mentioned to me, I'm just going to tell you that I find it extremely rude to say what was said at closed meetings so that you probably analyze yourself and your meetings back 15 years, you could probably hear anything there, but it's not normal to go out and that I'm still based on that taking a stand on what was said at a closed meeting, it's so far, unprecedented. It's unprecedented. ... It's one thing to be said in public, and the other is that he's in a closed meeting and that it's the whole campaign that's even taking on international proportions, I've never seen it before. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But, well, we can talk about it another time. There is now a representative of Grozdana Peric who will ask the question of the minister of labour, pension system, family and social policy Josip Aladrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28071	Thank you, well-respected HS President, the Honored President of the Croatian Government, present ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Here I am going to ask Minister Aladrovich. In fact, the fact that we all mention exactly the recent events, but also the ones that have been following us since 2020, and that's the pandemic, and now here's the earthquake that has hit, actually when we look at the population, then almost half of Croatia. Looking at the whole, we see that we really need to take full care of what is going on and how it can operate in such conditions and it is very important that we also have our EU membership where we use the solidarity and frameworks of EU resources that will help us and that we can maintain the economy so that we can maintain employment. We are all or our family members are also entrepreneurs or employees of entrepreneurs, it is very important how we plan our future. So do I, and it's known how much has been put into all these measures so far. I'm interested, Minister, with known measures, what are you still planning under your programme to do for these very areas that are now affected by the earthquake, especially Sisak-Moslavina and Karlovac County? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28072	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28073	Dear Mr. President HS, honourable MPs, respected MPs. Your Honor, ma'am. Peric, I thank you for this question. Today, we were already able to hear a partial answer to these questions from the discussion in HS, but of course, I will mention those most important aspects that occurred during 2020 and of course, look back at everything that awaits us in 2021, related to the preservation of jobs or the COVID crisis that has hit us since March 2020, the Croatian Government has adequately and timelyly reacted from the context of the labour market, of course wanting to protect the labour market and to preserve the labour market. In order to implement this, we have established measures to preserve jobs for which more than 8 billion kuna have been paid so far, covering or affecting the fates of more than 600,000 employees so that they remain in employment and more than 100,000 employers have used these measures to continue their entrepreneurial or business activities. We are aware, on the other hand, that the COVID crisis is not over, that we are expected to have additional turbulence from the economic context in all the countries of the environment and so on in the Republic of Croatia, so we have also reacted according to 2021. We have already announced that measures concerning the preservation of jobs have been extended for the month of January and the month of February, for all those who have been suspended from work, whose business activity from objective circumstances COVID crisis cannot obtain business results at the moment. On the other hand, we can see in the labour market that all those goals we wanted to meet have been met, so we have preserved the labour market and when we compare ourselves with other European countries, we can indeed express satisfaction with the results of the measures that we, economic measures, have, above all, taken over the past period. What awaits us in 2021, so the extension of measures for the first two months, if necessary, will be longer, then the shortened working time measure as one measure updated up to 90% of the inefficient hours that we cover entrepreneurs for the whole year, so from the beginning of January to the end of December, and of course, the other measures that we will bring in accordance with the time or epidemiological situation in which they move. I would also like to note that, on top of that, we have allocated more than a billion kuna to active employment measures, we expect to consume them and thus invest more than a billion kunas to create new jobs, to generate new jobs in those branches, in those sectors that we consider to be able to create the most added values and thus preserve but also strengthen the economy and in 2021, and you mentioned in your question, so I will give an answer to that part of the question, so European funds are used to address the challenges of the labour market, and we must note that more than 300 million euros are planned only in 2021 from... to be used to preserve the labour market. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Once again, I note, adequately, quality and timely we will respond to all the challenges on the labour market that we find ourselves with in 2021. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28074	There you go, the obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28075	Thank you very much. Ministers, we can indeed testify and ultimately confirm that the government has responded very spotlessly and thanks to the fact that we are a member of a large family who is considering how to better formulate measures and for our own entrepreneurs, so we are actually helping ourselves and in this way more than obvious, there has been no drastic increase in the number of unemployment, what many people have wanted to do and indeed here, we expect that this pandemic will eventually elevate to actually in the new period and in this cycle that we have before us, that we can really continue to do as much as possible and in this sense, along with all these measures that you have stated, that it will then be possible to start certain jobs and give the opportunity and young people in all these areas, especially in this area, that they can create their households and ultimately, families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28076	The 37th question, MP Stipan Sashlin will ask the Deputy Prime Minister of Croatian Defence Tommy Bear, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28077	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers, colleagues and colleagues. My question is addressed to the Croatian Defence Minister, Mr Tomislav Medved, and it is related to the assistance of Croatian defenders and victims in the earthquake of the affected area. In fact, it is about people and families who have experienced two severe tragedies in the past 25 years. The first in the Homeland War, when they came, or welcomed all the destroyed and robbed their households and today here, this devastating earthquake repeated it. I think we'll all agree that such two tragedies to experience in the life of a man, an individual or a family, are certainly not easy. My question is also related to the role and activities of Homeland War associations that have been very little to see and read about in the media since the first day, which have worked hard and patiently. It turns out again that Croatian defenders work hard and self-secretly while individuals come there to collect cheap political points, make selfies etc. I'd like to ask your comment on the situation on the ground.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28078	Here you go. ... President: Just turn off MP, just a little vice president. Here you go. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28079	Thank you very much, Mr. President. MPs and MPs, Your Honor, Mr. Shashin, thank you for this matter. And let me point out the role of Croatian defenders and in this disaster which unfortunately hit Sisak-Moslavina, parts of Zagreb and parts of the Carlovina County, all their contribution to the recovery of the damage and help of the victims in this earthquake. But I also want to look back on their contribution to all the previous crises that we had, as well as the earthquake that hit the City of Zagreb and parts of the Krapina-Zagreba County and Zagreb County. The Croatian defenders also made an extremely large contribution to Croatia's territory in the fight against the spread of the Covid-19 virus. In particular, it is important to stress that Croatian defenders are largely involved in the civil protection system as a component of the home security system and to the greatest extent make their contribution exactly as active stakeholders and active factors in this system. I am equally very pleased that our associations of Croatian defenders have emerged from the Homeland War and through their organization that the administrative part that the association organises through the gathering of its membership, its members of Croatian defenders and victims of the Homeland War are constantly present and makes an extremely great effort to reduce the consequences or mitigate the consequences of this earthquake. What we must stress, as you yourself have said, is therefore Sisak-Moslavina County is one of those counties that went through the most severe casualties in the Homeland War, so in the area of Sisak-Moslavina County we have 26,000 Croatian defenders, 3750 HRVI, the dead Croatian defenders is 611. Since the end of the Homeland War, more than 5500 Croatian defenders have died, unfortunately 480 Croatian defenders and civilians are still looking, still in the category of missing Croatian defenders and civilians in the area of the county, therefore this speaks of proportions at the level of Sisak-Moslavina County, and of material damage not to speak. And these people, after the Homeland War, have returned to life again, started their lives, and now this other disaster has followed. What I would like to stress is the role of the Croatian Defence Ministry, as was the case after the earthquake in the City of Zagreb, where we have targeted a tender for our psychosocial assistance associations where we have about 42 associations that have gone through this public competition where we have funded almost 10 million kuna targeted programmes aimed at Croatian defenders and that we have also started the procedure for inviting associations to join in through our quality programmes and projects contribute to the support of Croatian defenders. Also a whole series of measures that we have organised and related to providing psychosocial assistance and support, but also through the engagement of all our regional units available to all Croatian defenders. Therefore, Croatian defenders made a major contribution to the recovery of damages or to the reduction of the consequences of this earthquake As well as the Ministry of Croatian Defence. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28080	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28081	Dear Minister, I am pleased with your answer absolutely, and I really did not expect anything else, given that it is about Croatian defenders, that it is about people who have gone through a crisis and perhaps even harder where and where life situations are and that we simply have to realize that Croatian unity, Croatian solidarity, Croatian patriotism once again has come to an end, it has been said in action, no one can dispute it, we must be proud of it and that is what is currently most valuable in the Croatian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28082	Before we move on to the next question, I'll brief you on the work plan. We have four more questions, it's about 30 minutes, then we'll take a 10 minute break to air the room, then we'll go free speeches and somewhere around 15 and 30 right after the free speeches we'll start with the first item of the agenda Report by the Prime Minister on the meetings of the European Council. I now call on MP Dalia Oreskovic to question Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28083	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, are your extensive radars that they notice and discover everyone's agenda for repair or are they deliberately set up so that when it comes to corruption, these radars don't work? And are you aware that a political party that is 30. He creates various Žinićs and Žunićs, and does not react to their thieving, he cannot be the bearer of the restoration by the earthquake, but by the poor end? Five years ago. You announced that you would change HDZ so HDZ could change corruption, excuse Croatia. And from everything we've been in those 5 years. You've seen clearly that we can conclude two things either you haven't tried or you're not capable of it. Corruption remains the main trademark and connective tissue within the HDZ itself. The earthquake, unfortunately, is not the only images of the horrors our citizens have observed in the past days. In front of our eyes, there was a breakdown of the rule of law at all levels and a new corruption affair that you did not respond to properly and just when we thought we had seen everything, that we had already gotten used to Mr. Žinić's case, and Mr. Darko Puljašić showed that there was no, there is no bottom that HDZ is not able to overcome. I know that you are not personally responsible for the lack of arms and iron that was stolen in the restoration after the war, but I believe you are personally responsible for undermining independent institutions during your term of office. And I resent you for removing the radars for detecting corruption from independent institutions when you don't already have them yourself. And since this poses a threat to our national security, I'm wondering if these radars of yours can be improved at all, can you clean up from HDZ anything that needs to be cleaned up without jeopardising the parliamentary majority?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28084	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28085	I'm gonna need a microphone, please. Thank you. Dear Representative Oreskovic, you've said a lot to ask a half question in the end. Let's first talk about this armature and organized restoration. So, apropo hickeys, media hickeys that are like decommissioning. So, about 10 days after one contribution, I don't know on which television that one house in the restoration is damaged. You want to keep your numbers quiet, today it's very important for both you and everyone involved, but somehow you shut up the last few days after a statement by some politicians. In the organized renovation in Sisak-Moslavina County, we are talking about that category 4 to 6, categories 4 and 5 have no new foundations, remain the foundations since whenever the buildings are only category 6 are new foundations. 5888 houses have been renovated, in the process which we are now conducting, and it is coordinated by the Deputy Prime Minister inspected and paired these houses 3761 and imagine this number only 69 or 1.83% has the status unusable or so on. The red sticker. They 175 have orange or temporarily unusable. You were among the first together with colleagues to sit near you who were crying for an investigative commission who would probably stick the HDZ label to any possible irregularities in the post-war reconstruction, and I will remind you that at that time more than 150,000 houses and housing units were restored. And now that you look at it and look at reality and still remember that it was a 6.2 earthquake on Richter, so 6.2 on Richter isn't some earthquake that doesn't leave any consequences there especially if you're near the epicenter, so maybe we can catch the views of construction engineers, seismologists, statisticians to explain to us what's going on with some building if it's near the epicenter of a 6.2 Richter earthquake, maybe it can't hold, maybe it can't stay intact. You see, that's the difference between the hickey, the labeling, and the political profiting on a particular accident that has hit us all together and the facts, the facts. That's very important. Your thesis that we destroy or I don't know what we're taking away from independent institutions, so please give me one piece of evidence that this independent institution has been torn down in the term of our government. Who? The DORH, perhaps a month before the elections, let's say I as prime minister, influence that the DORH stop the investigation or arrest of the secretary of state in our government, whether after the election I stop the action that DORH and the police are doing, as far as the president of one of the public enterprises and two parliamentary deputies are concerned. Whether today in the case of Puljasic or all these circumstances concerning Mayor Žinić someone tells the institutions don't touch anything, please give me one proof. Well, I've said that a little while ago, to whom it's not clear yet, we need to be able to enlighten ourselves that there's no untouchable, and that's why your political thesis and the labels that you try to pin on us don't stand. And you're supposed to be called the Center, you know you're from the Centre, you're one thousand miles to the left of the center, and you're falsely representing yourself.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28086	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28087	Dear Prime Minister, do you know where you pushed Croatia from the concept of the rule of law and the rule of law, hundreds of miles of irrevocably until further notice. I am sorry that as fast as you are in deforming the opposition, you are not fast on the shift of compromised ministers and other compromised high-ranking HDZ members. When you talk about institutions not being weakened so please tell me which one of the corrupt HDZ's men actually did it and served his sentence as it did? How many judgments are there, and why aren't they here? What about your coalition partners, what about the criminal proceedings against Milan Bandic, have you been in contact with him since the beginning of the term of office not this one but that of the former within the City of Zagreb? And if we're talking about a post-war recovery, I'm terribly worried about it, and I really think it's a threat to general well-being, to the state's well-being, to the minorization of the crime that took place there. And that indeed some officials involved their fingers there and joined the qualification of that crime by hens. You know what chickening is? Chickening is a policy-to-law attitude, according to the rules, according to the work of independent state bodies. That's what I have to confess to, and you've shown it so far. If we're talking about the powers of the body, which is, for example, with the anti-corruption strategy, the period of time in force at the end of last year, the new one's nowhere to be prepared, here's the minister's resolute, I don't know what's going to stand in it at all. What should have changed with the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest since the beginning of my term of office in 2013, and each amendment has been announced in a way that further weakens the little power left in them. Our strategy to combat corruption seems like a children's picture book that no one fears. It's all your responsibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28088	I thank my colleagues Oreskovic, I think there is a division of legislative, executive and judicial power, you are now pushing the executive and legislative authority to judge someone, which I do not think is an alphabet of democracy that you should know very well. Here you go, colleagues, now it's your turn to ask the Prime Minister the same question.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28090	If anyone comes to our heads, it'll be a mess in our ranks. It's probably the Prime Minister's line you've thought of a lot in the past four years and something since you've been president of the government and president of the HDZ. Of course, it was so escalating in Požega-Slavon County that I'm embarrassed to ask you that question, and I can imagine how uncomfortable it will be for you to answer. So, the mayor beats the woman with a powerful verdict, the former president of the county HDZ bribes the journalist with an inadmissible verdict, the mayor who was stripped of immunity for a subsidy fraud but was assessed as a socially useful malfeasance and ended up still on the list, the mayor was tried for a physical attack on the journalist, the former president of the city council publicly called the daughter for domestic violence, which, of course, has a poor pedagogical effect on young people, and even the president of HDZ youth was caught driving with 0.80 and insulted a police officer. So no one's surprised when the video came out that's just a sequel to what I read about the mayor and the mayor. So they set up an honorary person for the director of a utility company when he didn't want to work on their orders and then they started blackmailing him and threatening him, and then he taped that conversation to the police, and in two days they said the police had tipped them off that video. So it's about the system, these aren't mangooes individuals. To read to you one, I will have to read, quote from the verdict that Judge Ivana Calic wrote, from this but the way you like to say, it is necessary to say that the system that has favored these crimes is not only 5 natural persons, it was made possible by all those individuals who at least knew that and in some ways and in this way participated, those who put their heads down, those who turned away, those who closed their eyes and those who kept quiet about it. Mr. President, which group are you in from this 4? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28091	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28092	Dear Representative Bauk, I am pleased that you have contributed in your creative way to today's debate on the current morning, and I am also pleased that you are now joining this group of readers probably have a prewritten response or as it is called expression of satisfaction or dissatisfaction by the role model of the junior team and the girls of your club. Now, as far as Požega is concerned, so all of these that you mentioned to one who has so far remained in a place other than where people have been elected in the elections and there is nothing we can or may be acting on a duty he has acted on before, who, say so. Whether the former or mayor is still current, he will be former after the May elections, whether he is in HDZ, is not, is excluded from the party, is. Is the mayor and former parliamentary representative still here as a representative among us, he did not, he resigned. Whether a decision was made yesterday to disband the HDZ city organisation in Požega is. That's your frame. It's very important that you know that. So, what's the point here? The point here is this last part of your question where we count and what we do. We do what is necessary for both Croatia and HDZ, which is to try to eliminate everything that is bad, everything that is proven wrong. And that's how we're gonna keep going. I repeat again, if there's still someone who doesn't understand it, and now it should be clear after 4.5 years, maybe they'll learn the hard way. We try to explain it in a more easy way, that if you're in politics, you're in public business, you're looking for voter confidence, then act right. It's a very simple formula. A very simple formula and we will persist on it. We don't have these deals in the Smuj variant, and you get out of the club, and maybe someone will forget that we may be from the SDP at the head of Novi Gradiška. But Smudj somehow went his own way, pretending to be ignorant. It wouldn't be the first time. Well, not even in Sisak-Moslavina County where you proved yourself a few years ago, you were just at the height of the task, you weren't far away in Vukovar, there's this material. I don't have to bring it up to you right now as you're thoroughly preparing to read all the media that is possible to synthesize all this together in such debates. You have as much cleaning material as you want in different areas. But I am glad that we continue our sporting debate in the absence of your colleague Maras, whom I hope you will be brave enough as the main opposition party to run for mayor since Mr. Tomašević has unearthed you, this is how you got, goodbye, you are not attractive enough to gain confidence, perhaps Mr. Maras, who I miss in this parliamentary debate is a candidate, but we will see that yet. Anyway, Mr. Bauk, you have what we do, what we do systematically, what we know in advance, what we find out later. And that's how it's gonna be. And most importantly, despite all the demanding circumstances, we beat you to 25 differences, I have to do this for basketball and time when you were a judge, and I'm a player, 25 differences is a lot, it's a lot for a hack and for a game of even this amateur character. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28093	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28094	I am Mr. President delighted with your answer, delighted. So let's first of all, as far as these thugs are concerned in their own ranks, I didn't happen to mention it, and you listed certain particular cases that are also most of them exes, and some of them are rehabilitated, but here I mentioned exactly one thing, I didn't go to all of these things that we suggested to you by interpretations and requests for recall, so you made fun of us and offended us, and then you replaced them all because if you went to elections with them, there wouldn't be 25 differences. Otherwise, the election doesn't determine the truth. In people's elections, therefore, decisions are made on the basis of evidence, and election decisions are based on impressions. The impression that citizens had that you would better lead the government than other candidates may speak more about other candidates than you do, but we can discuss it well. So, he can make a mistake once, but his brother can't go to Pozega six times. These are all the people I listed who were during your, your government, so while you were head of the promotion and this one that was in the assembly and that one, they were all elected in 2017, you've been here since 2016. As for the choice of associates, you look up to me. You put one of my deputies in charge of informing the commissioner, one of my assistants is your vice president, one of my colleagues is this one in the Red Cross, working, injured in an earthquake affected area. Therefore, it seems to me that my radar is better, if you've detected us, Mrs. Dalia has detected 10,000 km to the left of the centre, means that the radar is working, that this system, however, is AP-70 radar, Andrej Plenkovic... I think we should go, that we should go to a remont as far as Požega is concerned and of course, I wish you more successful detections, you have no doubt, and we will help you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28095	Let's go to question 40. Representative Stipe Mlinaric, appoints him Deputy Prime Minister Boris Milosevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28096	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, as you know, the government has sent the Civil Victims of War Act into the parliamentary procedure. I've read the law, but the law makes it hard to understand who the enemy forces are or what angle they're looking at. Please give a concrete answer, is it the Croatian defenders, but the taxpayers are interested in whether we will pay both the aggressor army and the helper we defeated in the Flash and Storm? And I would ask you to tell the Croatian public who is the aggressor for you, and who is the victim of the Homeland War? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28097	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28098	I would like to thank the Honorable President of HS, the Honorable MPs and MPs. Your Honor, MP Mlinaric. You asked about the Civil Victims Act of the Homeland War, the law was adopted by the government shortly before the earthquake and referred it to the parliamentary procedure and the Parliament would have the opportunity to clarify in the first reading all the ambiguities and contribute to the improvement of its text. As the law itself says, the rights of civilian victims of the Homeland War are spoken of, so all those who wear uniforms do not and cannot draw the right from that law but can only be drawn up by civilian victims, so those who were not in uniform in the military and that law and its principle is such, that all civilian victims of the Homeland War, therefore all civil sacrifices, without distinction to religion, nation, political or any other belonging, exercise this right because this law should be exercised because that law and that matter have not been regulated for 30 years, which is not very proud of us, but the law has been made, adopted by the Government, will go to regular procedure in 2 readings, and you will have the opportunity as advocate and you and the representatives of your party, so the entire Assembly to contribute to improving the quality of the law, that no one, who is a civilian victim of war, regardless of where she has suffered, achieves the right. She was a Serb, Croat, Roma, Czech, Italian and anyone and the law of her own name clearly states that she regulates the rights of civilian victims. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28099	Col. Mlinarić, a colleague of Dretar's first report on the violation of the Rules of Procedure, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28100	Thank you very much, Mr. President-in-Office, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Art. 238, you don't have to explain it specifically. Mr. Milosevic refused to answer the parliamentary question, and it seems to me, both at this time and the Croatian public, to be mistaken. A clear and concrete question has been asked, Mr Milosevic does not perform his duties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28101	Comrade Dretar, you perform your function in a way that you will get a reminder Here, here you go, colleague Mlinaric, the obvious. [[- That's great.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28102	Thank you, Mr. President. I didn't expect a different answer from the vice president of Mr. Milosevic's government because he is a good student of Mr. Pupovac and is wise to avoid the answer. Mr. Milosevic, I am your witness of that time. I passed the Vukovar Calvary. I watched those civilians we were guarding, feeding, where you have footage on Belgrade's television where they extract bread, the last day of the fall of Vukovar, when the Serbian army, the aggressor army and JNA entered Vukovar and ate bread. As a Croatian defender, I haven't eaten in 15 days. And this one, these same civilians that you now say should have rights, show people at the hospital, among them my brother. And those 262 people were killed. Tell me, are these civilians to be paid today by a Croatian taxpayer? I think not, and civilians, children in Slavonski Brod, so it is a shame of the Croatian government that it is 2021 that someone should pass the law that those children who have died, innocent children or innocent civilians of any nationality, not at all, that they did not exercise the right until 2021. It is a shame of the Croatian state then. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28103	The latest question, MP Miro Totgergeli, will ask Deputy Prime Minister and Interior Minister Davor Bozinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28104	... Vice-Presidents and ministers, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. [[Specially enabled.]] [[/Intruder: Turn off. Here we go.]] Respected Deputy Prime Minister and Home Affairs Minister, back a little more than a year of migration of the population of Middle Eastern countries to Europe was a breaking news story in all media outlets. However, the coronary pandemic and these two terrible earthquakes that hit us somehow put the subject outside the public's focus. Unfortunately, the problem did not go away just because there was less public speaking in it. The pressure of the migration wave towards Europe continues to exist, and Croatia is on the edges, i.e. at the EU's external border. I would like to know how much Croatia is involved and what its role in the long-term migration solution strategy at global level and how much the coronary pandemic has affected the reduction of illegal migration, i.e. whether illegal migration has affected the spread of the coronary pandemic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28105	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28106	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you, Mr. Representative, for finding out yourself that a very important security issue, not only a security issue, but, above all, is in a way out of focus because of these crises we are facing, and should be focused because unfortunately, migration and the pressure of illegal migration on the Republic of Croatia has not disappeared. It is as you yourself said at one point in the period especially that of the biggest lockdown that was in the 4th and 5th months somewhat submerged, but very soon afterwards we faced a new wave of migration that actually took place last year to the highest pressure of illegal migration on the EU's external borders, or on the borders of the Republic of Croatia. For example, in 2019 there were slightly less than 20,000 conducts by Croatian police officers towards illegal migrants, and in 2020, despite the fact that the pressure of two months had de facto not been anything more than 29,000. So this only speaks of the fact that migration is a matter that will be dealt with not only by this government but probably by a series of Croatian governments in the future, it will not disappear overnight especially when we add up another security component, which is that these people are mainly organised by smuggling groups. Last year, more than 700 people were arrested for helping to illegally enter the territory of the Republic of Croatia, more than 700 people of different nationalities and Croatian citizens, as well as more non-Croatian citizens, which only says that it is a vast network of international crime. We are fully aware from the very beginning of this government's mandate that this issue cannot and the problem cannot be solved by any state itself. That is why we have launched a series of activities in international institutions, primarily within the EU where and through the allocations for the technical equipment of the Croatian border, we actually see another benefit of our membership in the EU, so we have invested just over 200m euros in the technical equipment of the Croatian border, which we certainly would not be able to do alone from our own budget. In other words, we are very active on the international agenda, we are very firm in the implementation of the law at the Croatian border. I am thanking everyone, above all the border, but also other associated police forces, who have been protecting the Croatian border for many years now, and politically, we are fully clear that this issue must be resolved internationally. One who doesn't understand it, who resorts to or calls for short solutions doesn't really know the world we live in and has not defined the problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28107	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28108	It is obvious that Croatia plays an important role in the strategy of a long-term solution to the migration issue at global level, or in the EU, given our geostrategic position at the EU's external borders, but given the status we enjoy in EU countries and individual countries in the environment, thanks above all to the well-established strategy of the foreign policy of this government as well as the previous Government. I join the Ministers when you say that you thank all the members of the MUP who participate daily in the protection of our borders and just continue to keep up-to-date with all the services involved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28109	Thank you, everyone who participated in the current morning. It took a little longer than 14:40 today, so we're going to take a ten-minute break, so at 14:50 we start taking a stand, and at 3:30 we start with the first item of the agenda. I'm just asking services to clear the room properly and in 10 minutes, it's a follow-up. MEETING AT 14:40 A.M. Dear MPs, honourable MPs, we continue to work on the order: - Report by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia on held meetings of the European Council in 2020 is submitted to the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 15.47 HOURS]] The Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia will submit a report in accordance with Article 11. Law on the cooperation of the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia in European affairs. The debate was conducted by the Committee on European Affairs. I would now like to ask the Prime Minister, Mr. Andrej Plenkovic, to further explain the report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28111	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, respected MPs and MPs last year was extremely challenging, unpredictable and difficult in every respect. We have entered it with hope and optimism ready to present Croatia in the world as a country that proudly takes over the helm of the most successful political project in the history of the EU. But history had other plans for us. The whole world has been affected by a pandemic of the coronary virus that has taken a large number of lives, caused enormous damage to economies, and changed life - style and business from the foundation. The two catastrophic earthquakes, the first one in Zagreb in March, hit us in Croatia, before the New Year and the one in Sisak-Moslavina County and in part of neighbouring counties. All of these are challenges that we don't remember that put us on the greatest trials, but that got us out of the best. The courage and sacrifice of health professionals, solidarity and care for the neighboring number of volunteers, the great heart and high degree of responsibility of our fellow citizens. In these difficult times, these are all reasons for optimism and even stronger faith in Croatia and in the strength of the spirit of Croatian people whose unity and unity in distress may be the most constant trait of our people throughout history. Ladies and gentlemen, despite all these difficulties and global challenges, Croatia's position on the international scene has been strengthened. A great reason for this is our EU membership. The year behind us has shown us all the advantages of belonging to a large and strong bloc of countries with collective mechanisms of reaction and protection. After the first earthquake in Zagreb, Croatia received €683 million from the Union Solidarity Fund to help rebuild the destroyed and injured city, which so far is the largest amount of assistance from this fund per capita. Surely, an even more devastating earthquake at Petrinja, Sisak and Gline will receive the appropriate assistance already announced by Commissioner Lenarcic, who visited the very earthquake affected areas with Vice President Suica. In this situation Croatia is not alone and can count on many friends. All European leaders and many officials have sent us support, support messages and have shown their willingness to help. Crisis and other mechanisms designed to provide rapid and solidarity assistance have been activated within the Union. We have submitted support requests from all other funds available. In cooperation with the Commission, we are working on a national recovery and resilience plan from which we will be able to withdraw additional funds from the EU's special instrument next generation. We are grateful for every support and concrete assistance we have received so far, and that is practically 30 countries with concrete support. We also thank our emigrants around the world for all the financial assistance they have collected and sent to affected areas, all of which will contribute to a faster restoration of the destroyed areas, villages and cities. We need to remember at this point the very beginning of the pandemic. So, a little less than a year from today. At that time, Croatia was the President of the Council, we reacted without delay, activated all relevant coordination mechanisms among Member States. In the short term, we have provided more effective and flexible support from European funds to all members, entrepreneurs and citizens, as well as to Croatia. The vaccine, the most effective weapon in the fight against the pandemic, we got and distributed together. Croatia has started vaccination against the coronary virus as you know immediately after Christmas as well as other members of the Union with a good initial rate of cleavage that we hope will intensify. The EU, and through it and Croatia as a Member State, has provided enough vaccines for all of our citizens. I'm using this opportunity to invite everyone to split up and think of others because only by mass vaccination will we achieve the resilience of a large number of inhabitants so that the virus will no longer have to spread to, and that means the epidemic will collapse. Croatia is as an economy that is highly focused on tourism, and it is important for both financial and development reasons. Let me say a few words on the European Council meetings this year. All together, five meetings were held. This is the report, and you've also received a written report on all the meetings that were held. But I would mention that after that physical meeting we had in Brussels until half of July, there was a delay and a break due to the epidemic of physical encounters. The Croatian Presidency organised a series of informal video conferences and other council meetings, the Minister of Foreign and European Affairs informed it extensively when we submitted a report on our presidency. The most common topics were pandemics, a multi-annual financial framework and a recovery plan. In response to the pandemic crisis, the most important achievement of the past year is the budget agreement. That package was agreed in July, remember that it was the day two before the constitution of this assembly. For Croatia, the agreement was particularly important, good, favourable, generous, coming at the right time under the circumstances. And it is precisely these financial instruments that should help us to go through social and economic recovery. On several occasions this year, the European Council also discussed an important global topic, which is the topic of climate change. We have determined that by 2030, at Union level we need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by at least 50% compared to the 1990s. This is important for achieving the Union's climate neutrality, up to 2050 and its sustainable future for the benefit of new generations as well as for our collective contribution to the global objectives and implementation of the Paris Agreement. In October, we discussed the single market, industrial policy, digital transition, which becomes a key priority of the Union in the next multiannual period. These are all areas that open up great opportunities to speed up our economy, as well as the chance to make the best of it. With regard to external relations, relations with Turkey in this year were particularly sub-sea drilling activities in the eastern Mediterranean, the situation in Belarus, China, Gorski Karabah, the southern neighbourhood, Union and Africa, and ultimately one of the key foreign policy issues with relations with the United States. All these discussions have shown a high coherence of views in the field of foreign policy and despite the understandable differences in some initial views, we have finally shown that we are able as well as 27 countries to find a common denominator and send unique messages to the Union. When it comes to the Croatian presidency, I would also mention that one of our key meetings was the Zagreb summit meeting, 20. After that first meeting, although he was in video form, he sent important messages on the importance of the enlargement process, a strong policy of support for Croatia towards its neighbours, especially towards BiH, the position of the Croatian people in BiH as an equal constituent people. There are also important decisions made during our chairmanship on opening negotiations with Albania and Northern Macedonia. As you know, a new methodology for accession negotiations has been adopted, steps have been made at the very beginning of the new commission's work. In this regard, we expect Croatia to continue the current Portuguese presidency exactly as it was going. We also held a meeting with Eastern Partnership countries, wanted to focus on those 6 countries, with all the differences and problems that exist between them. When it comes to the multiannual financial framework, today morning I said that we have EUR 12.7 billion available for the 7th year, on the cohesion policy of EUR 8.4 billion, direct payments 2.3, rural development 1.9. In addition to additional funds that will be able to benefit from different Union instruments programmes for both fisheries and for fair transition, internal security, migration, research and development. This is the result of our intensive push for the Croatian interests that lasted for months, essentially the process started in May 2018 when Juncker's commission came out with key communication documents on this seven-year budget. We also insisted on the importance of demographic renewal, remember that in February we managed to mark the Croatian position because this problem is an existential problem, and that is why it is important that in this new NUTS 2 divide the statistical regions in which Croatia has Pannonian Croatia, which is exactly the part where we insist that we take steps. We can be satisfied because these specificities and needs are recognized. We are also slightly forgetting that the national co-financing rate for cohesion remained at 15%. I would remind you that the Commission's initial proposal was to co-finance 25%, which would be a very demanding task for a country like Croatia in terms of national co-financing. We also kept implementing rule M+3, which is that projects can be implemented from the year, which is, for example, started for another 3 g. and there was the initial proposal M+2. So we have achieved not only a total of large funds but we have also made it possible for the absorption to go with the dynamics that are appropriate I would say the stalkings of our institutions and bodies. I will also mention Croatia's total 7-year payment to the European budget. In the years ahead, it will be EUR 661 million a year, so EUR 4.6 billion in the period ahead. This is more than the total amount of European funds that Croatia will use. That's another indicator of the benefits of our membership in the Union. It is not worth mentioning that the HS is exactly what I thank you for, and we need to do a little more emancipation on the proposal from the Government, accepted the Council's decision on the system of own resources of the European Union on 18 December of last year. We were thus the first Member State of the 27 to confirm this decision through Parliament, so through Parliament. Many countries have not even started the procedure yet, and some will not take the parliamentary path. And here we have given one signal as we see the aspect of this revenue side of the European budget. When it comes to the next generation of the EU instrument, the public is aware that the instrument was created to get everyone out of the crisis as soon as possible. It is 750 billion euros for the 27-member European Union, 390 billion grants, 360 billion for loans. The largest amount refers to the recovery and resistance mechanism of 672 billion euros. In this respect, the grants amounted to 312, while loans amounted to 360. The objectives of this mechanism are to mitigate and eliminate the consequences of the crisis with the support of reform processes and to build resilience. In this package, Croatia received 9.6 billion. It's practically 6. And loans are 3.6 billion. On the other hand, it is important to underline that this mechanism does not require national co-financing, and Croatia has also achieved success through the adoption of an advance payment proposal of 13% of the grants from the recovery mechanism and the resilience that will come to the accounts of the Ministry of Finance in 2021, amounting to 780m euros. Just to figure out the scale of the funds as a advance. This will allow for the decommissioning of the state budget, providing funds for the rapid start-up of reforms. In view of the fact that the Union has a first-rate credit rating interest rate for loans is extremely low. I would also like to mention once again that our recovery and resilience plan is being developed. All the resistors are engaged. We exchange documents with the European Commission. It's a very voluminous document that has 5 components. The first is the economy, which includes the private sector. Then comes the public administration, the judiciary and state property. Then, education, science and research, labour market and social protection, as well as the latest strengthening of the resilience of the health system. And one specific horizontal initiative that refers to the rebuilding of buildings from earthquakes, and through all components is more than clearly incorporated into our priority, which is demographic revitalization. I will remind you that these 6 billion euros of grants represent about 11% of our GDP. Such a high percentage does not have any other members of the European Union, and it is therefore important to keep that in mind. In this year, we debated a lot about climate change, in which of course it will be a key priority, so-called. Green ecological energy transitions. Therefore, the last meeting of the European Council, which was held in December, was preceded by the debate on climate and to the firm goals I was talking about at the beginning. The aim is to have sustainable economic growth, to create jobs in the field of health and the environment. This will ultimately contribute to the global competitiveness of the Union's economy by promoting innovation in green technologies. Realising that achieving the objectives set will also mean significant additional investments, we stressed the importance of mobilising public funding and private capital. At that time, the Council also reminded of the orientation of at least 30% of the total expenditure from the multiannual financial framework and the EU package of the next generation to so-called. green policies and green projects. It is important that this document is fully compatible with the National Development Strategy, that it be linked to the Partnership Agreement and the specific programmes that we will prepare for the next seven-year budget. We're when we analyze everything together quite satisfactorily. We are pleased with what we have provided for the decade ahead. We are satisfied with the priorities of both green and digital transformations. We think that these new jobs of the future are important for adapting Croatia to the 4th industrial revolution for the country's position, taking care of all our comparative advantages precisely in that developmental direction that is best for both Croatia and Europe, following global circumstances. I will mention that at the end of this year, a final agreement has been reached on how new relations with the United Kingdom will be. You, as you know, have stopped being a member at the beginning of our presidency, and the agreement reached with the skills of our joint negotiator Michel Barnier is good for the European Union Member States, although Croatia is, by all criteria, all analyses, and given the internship in membership, a country which was least touched by the United Kingdom's exit from the European Union. In the end, this year is as difficult as it is to create a lever for Croatia, a lever in the sense that we can rely on what membership in the European Union gives us regardless of whether it is economic development or whether it is a recovery from the earthquake. Membership in the Union has made us a safer, stronger country, it has enabled us to make for our citizens, and that is ultimately the only thing that is important and most important by working hard to ensure the protection of national interests, to strengthen our sovereignty through membership in the European Union and to develop a policy of cooperation and solidarity. Therefore, thanks to trends that are important at European level with what the government has done, what the minister has done with his associates, all the resolutions from my point of view in these circumstances have done the most she could. It remains regrettable that the Presidency of the Council was not realised in that full of promotion and visibility as we naturally wanted and prepared it, but given what we have provided for the next 10 years, we can say that it is a good and quality compensation and it is up to us to continue, in cooperation with the Croatian Parliament, the way we started last year. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28112	Thank you, you can stay here, Prime Minister, because the replicas are coming. The first order will be a colleague of Hrvoje Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28113	Dear Prime Minister, you said one incorrect information, which is that Croatia received the most assistance in disasters such as the EU earthquake, it is not true because Albania got more and more a year ago. Albania has received over a billion euros and there are almost a million people less, so there's a simple bill that isn't right for you, maybe you've made a mistake, here I'm correcting you. And one question you can answer me, when Poland and Hungary vetoed the EU budget, on this New Deal I will say, whose side were you on, on the side of those other countries or on the side of Hungary and Poland? It seems to me from Croatia that the statesmen of these countries are such as to be sovereigns and that these others were globalists, so here's what side you were on.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28114	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28115	I'm always on the side of Croatia, that's number one. On the part of Croatia, Croatia, this is a very important detail when a man sits on the European Council to know on whose behalf he comes and whose interests he stands for. I'd like to defuse you immediately to this Albania. First, Albania's Member State, it's a very important detail. No, this is very important because we are talking here about comparing the percentage that some countries, unfortunately because of the disasters they had, have won through the EU Solidarity Fund. Albania had a donor conference where we also paid to restore Albania. It is a completely different mechanism plus it seems to me a billion and 100 million euros, 700 million were loans of a different character, and that different international organisations and states that do not have ties with the EU, so even in this sense we have more than Albania, but these are details about which we can secondly, I can explain it to you, do not compare Albania and Croatia. As for Hungary and Poland, they had their reasons, we have no problem with the rule of law And from the beginning, and as chairman, we have advocated that this mechanism be just, clear, that we all know its consequences. [[Intruder President: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28116	Thank you very much. Comrade Zekanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28117	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, I demand a break from the Croatian Sovereigns' Club to further consult on the report of the Prime Minister. Namely, I am here, I will look for these data because I was not familiar with them, but I have seen that the figure is, however, that I was telling the truth and not you, that Albania has received more money from us, it is not my fault, I am not jealous of Albania, but because you pointed out that Albania is not an EU member, it is actually a difficult situation for Croatia. And strained, because you as a member of the EU have received less money than Albania. You said that you for Croatia, I hope that you work for the Republic of Croatia, for our country, but I often have the impression that you work for some lobbies in the EU. The way I see it, it seems to me that both statesmen and Poland and Hungary work for their countries and I think, somehow, I have the impression, maybe the impression is cheating on me, that you're working for France or Germany, for their interests, but maybe I'm wrong. Furthermore, here I have to tell you one more thing very important that you cannot point out, you said that we have strengthened our position in the EU, the position of Croatia, strengthened if Croatia has fallen from the last place of development, according to all possible parameters in the EU, then we cannot say that the position of Croatia is strengthened but weakened. And that's the key information. Another very important thing, from all that money, from that New Deal that you've been announcing here from this pay phone or from this building of the INA, we haven't had a drop in a year. It's public money that we're hoping to get, in futur II, but of that money, unfortunately, we still don't have anything. I think that's what you need to tell the Croatian public and also say that we have paid in the EU budget exactly as much money as we have now received for the reconstruction of the city of Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28118	Yes, my colleague Zekanovic, I formally approve of your break or in accordance with Article. 293a) We are not going to take that break and my colleague Pavić has answered but I invite you colleagues and colleagues not to abuse this institute because this really doesn't make any sense now. Here you go, Comrade Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28119	Thank you very much. President-in-Office of the Parliament, Mr. President-in-Office of the Government. On behalf of the HDZ Club, I am looking for a break in order to bring the EU's value further closer to the citizens as well. 24.2 billion euros are coming to Croatia, we see the difference that was past the crisis in 2008 and now, Croatia's credit rating is rising, it's incorrect that Albania has received more, it has received less because most of those billions of euros, 700 million were just loans, 300 million grants, but we cannot compare pears and apples, the Croatian government and Prime Minister Plenkovic have fought for 24.2 billion euros. When we remember Juncker's first proposal, we should have received 1.8 billion euros less. Both the government and the prime minister clearly highlighted Croatian views in Brussels, and there is this modern Croatian sovereignty, that we are locked up in Brussels, that we know how to fight for Croatian interests, and in the end, instead of 1.8 billion euros smaller, we received 24.2 billion euros. The value of the EU and solidarity, we have seen, by the last earthquake, the Vice-President of the Shuica Commission and the Vice-President of crisis situations were already the next day in Petrinja, the application is being prepared, the EU budget payments are much less than what we get but we get security, we get a fight with COVID, it is very clear that we have a priority in the world during vaccination, that the EU, the Commission, is negotiating with the pharmaceutical industry and that this is exactly why we will find this crisis better, and that is not just what we are saying, the agency credits that ultimately increased Croatia's rating despite all these crises. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28120	It's been approved and you're only formally, we're not going to take a break, we're going to continue our work, and once again, I'm calling on you to still hurt the Rules of Procedure, and we're not using these breaks as an excuse so we can actually talk. Here you go, pal Bull, the replica is yours now.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28121	Thank you. You mentioned demography as the biggest problem in Croatia. We have a Vice-President of the Commission who is more concerned with Banovina and the name Banovina, which she was supposed to solve within the coalition with the SDSS than sharing it down to the people. The key issue is and the key problem is that you said how much multi-purpose funding will be from the EU through funds and the rest you listed is that much more will be paid by our people who have gone to third countries for bad policies. Much more funds will come where the areas are now empty, and the earthquake and Covid have shown all the bad policies in Croatia from self-sufficiency to inability to react to how they should react to the issue and earthquakes, and boos and Covida. When We Are Not Self - Sufficient When we have an empty state, then it's not the state. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[Intruder: Thank you, colleague Bulj.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28122	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28123	Dear Representative Bulj, the only thing that's good about your exposure is that you can see that you know less of Zekanovic's representative on this topic and our membership in the EU, but you two are the champions of the replica before it starts speaking at all from this pay phone so that we can now return the debate if you want to react to the crown, if you want to respond to an earthquake, we can listen to your demagogy, your so-called HDZ and our government. You had a chance to participate in the government, you chose eight years of opposition. The next time the Croatian Parliament chooses, you will be even less because you are as far as the club as one joke about one country and Nokia is concerned, I will not mention the country of those who know what I am saying that every new model is smaller, so your club will be smaller next time, but it is thanks to your numerous and unforgettable performances in the Croatian Assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28124	Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28125	On behalf of the MOST Club, I'm looking for a 10-second break, first of all to the Prime Minister. I congratulated Plenkovic that he had finally been bold and accepted the proposal that I proposed to declare the exclusive economic belt, which spoke from this pay phone that it was a push to court fascist Tajani and his friend, but still accepted the declaration of an exclusive economic belt, even under the pressure of Italy, but still one step forward. [[/Intruder: Seconds?]] As for the knowledge and ignorance, Mr. Outcast, I'm sorry, Plenkovic, don't blow your mind if there were two of them, two of them, three of them in the Homeland War, until Japan. You've had the strength and opportunity here to insult knowledge and ignorance, I'm telling the facts from the field. Croatia is currently unfortunately below 4 billion, below 4 million people, unfortunately. Our citizens who have been evicted because of the bad policies, you have only recognized your government, I have spoken because of the poor policies of Croatian governments towards 2/3 of Croatia that they are empty. So you see the state of things, you were saying that it's my paws when I talk about it. When I talked about self-sufficiency that we had 700,000 acres of raw agricultural land that wasn't processed, you said it was such a market that it had to be. It doesn't have to be that way. As long as the village and the peasant are not at the helm, until the Croatian fields and ornaments are modeled, there is no progress on Croatia. As long as you give incentives to people who don't know how many cows there are in agriculture we'll be here where we are. I would ask you to be a little less cocky, it's not good to be high-flighted, because whoever knows sometimes Mr. Plenkovic and falls, listen, the people chose us all here, you wanted and you had everything you used not to get me into the Croatian Parliament, the people chose me, so at least listen and don't get so loaded because it's not good. Pawn is beautiful, beautiful and letters sang in us Clap, but don't always be a paun, listen sometimes [[Intruder: Thank you, beautiful colleague Bulj.]] [[You'd be surprised, but I know the words.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28126	Thank you very much. Col. Bulj, the same observation as colleagues Zekanovic and Pavić, we have now started to abuse this institute, and I think we will really have to go to changes to the Rules of Procedure to ensure a normal debate because this really doesn't make sense anymore. Let's move on, let's move on, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go,
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28127	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister, the regular topics of the European Council meetings were migration, security and, of course, Covida. The Republic of Croatia is although at a certain time the figures were not so optimal, but if we look at the overall situation that is happening in the Republic of Croatia then we can still be satisfied and we have shown that the Croatian health system is functional. So we have a problem with the Western Balkan countries here, first of all, I think of the Republic of BiH that has a very complicated structure, and this has certain repercusions to obtain vaccines, and it is predicted that only in April will they start the vaccination, which would then have some effectiveness only in May and June, so that it can have implications for our tourist season. I ask you to during a video conference that will be the day after tomorrow to advocate to help BiH about getting the vaccine. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28128	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28129	Thank you very much. That's exactly what I was trying to explain this morning, the idea of bigger orders. The amount of doses of the vaccine goes not only for this to be ensured depending on the time of purchase and delivery but also to donate all the surplus to those countries that we believe can help them. There is no dilemma that the number 1 priority for Croatia is that all excess vaccines are directed towards BiH for a number of reasons than the political, historical, good neighbourly, and ultimately what you have said about other countries in terms of human trafficking and the circulation of vaccinations, we will also be more secure in taking care of the economy, health security and financial endowment in view of tourism as one of the most important branches, so we will also perform and represent Croatian interests whatever we do regardless of the impression of these all-knowledge about the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28130	Comrade Bartulica, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28131	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. I'm glad you pointed out the role of our emigrants in recent troubles, they have again shown great solidarity with their country in these difficult moments. However, my question concerns the process of obtaining approval and distribution of vaccines at EU level, whether you are satisfied with the dynamics of the process. For example, we know that Germany has already ordered 30 million doses by itself, past the agreement in Brussels. Therefore, it seems to me that the institutions were slow if the strategic issue was the vaccination of the population in this pandemic. I think they reacted too slowly and weren't at the height of the moment. Here, thank you. These European bodies that have been responsible for this. [[/Intruder: Sorry whose institutions?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28132	Yeah, okay. So that's what we talked about today, but it's good to do it again. Therefore, the EU has 27 Member States. We have in common during the Croatian Presidency authorised the European Commission to enter into the process of negotiations with different pharmaceutical companies that have worked on studies that have led to vaccines. What was the intention? The intention was to avoid this so-called. diplomacy of the vaccine that is now parallel. Countries that weren't tied to that deal have a lot of them in the world, you're following this situation are more free to negotiate directly with these companies. We wanted ourselves as a country of our size, a country that is in the Union to ensure that we get enough funds. Because without this common European approach, the situation was even more difficult, even more demanding because the vaccine would go to those countries that are willing to pay more. Whether the whole process was brilliant is exactly the topic that we're going to talk about the day after tomorrow and we want to meet all of the obligations and calendars that have been taken over a few months ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28133	Thank you. Comrade Petyr, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28134	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament, Prime Minister. In this situation, Croatia is not alone and it has shown how important it is for our EU membership not only when we need help, that this assistance is fast and fast, not only when we need help for investment, investment, development, agriculture to really get that support and get it. Even when we want to help others to hear our word. I can say that in the global frameworks that we were in at the time when we chaired the EU Council, it is quite surprising that we were able to influence the opening of negotiations with Macedonia and Albania. However, we see that, despite all the efforts, certain obstacles remain, so I would say that there are always some member states that Macedonia are laying its feet. And I wonder if we can influence under these circumstances that finally things with Macedonia are heading in the right direction?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28135	Thank you very much for your esteemed representative, Petyr. I am well aware of the times in common in the European Parliament where you led an informal group of representatives to support Macedonia towards opening negotiations. I think we made those key steps during the Croatian Presidency and made a formal political decision. What unfortunately did not happen during the German presidency, which is a formal meeting so-called. Intergovernmental conferences where these negotiations would officially start in terms of technology as envisaged again due to bilateral issues with another Member State, not one that slowed the process to a good fifteen years before the agreement. Unfortunately, I think it's somewhat conditional on historical reasons, but mostly on an election calendar in that other country that's as you know before us in a few weeks. I believe that after these elections have passed, you could take a step forward, and we'll lobby to make that happen from the perspective of the countries, I don't speak names on purpose.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28136	My colleague Željko Pavić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28137	Dear Prime Minister, I would ask you to give me a little comment if there is no problem with a document published in Brussels on 27.5.2020. It is about identifying Europe's needs for recovery. The practical document was actually a European moment of recovery and preparation for a new generation. In fact, the document states that the aim of the European Commission and the EU is, in fact, to make as many members as possible equal incomes, i.e. GDP. It actually turns out that the members who were the weakest received the most money, so I'd like to ask you to comment on that. So that's what the document says.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28138	I unfortunately almost half of what you said didn't understand you until the end. But is it your message to refer to some document of May 27th that says that those countries that are least developed will get the most? That makes sense. Well, there's no dilemma. So, what is the key to cohesion policy? That is why it is called cohesion to try to support those countries in time, those regions in them to reach an average of EU development. Well, that's the whole philosophy. If in your question there is some sort of between the lines of messages where Croatia is, so that was our main argument. Croatia is the only Member State that has only implemented a multi-annual financial framework so far. So those closest to us are Bulgaria and Romania who entered six years before us. They used more resources than we used to use in the '90s, and they got a lot less funding in 2000. They took advantage of the odds they had. It's up to us to hunt a step, and that's why we fought for all these assets that are there. That's the whole point.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28139	Thank you. Comrade Hajdukovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28140	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister. Introducing and speaking about the earthquake that it is important to be an EU member, you said that we are not alone, that we are not without friends, that we have received a lot of help, indeed it is true, and I join your thanks, to all those who helped us. But my question to you is, have we been friends to ourselves and have we had Croatian friends in this building across the street from this square? And why would I ask you that? Well, Mr. Prime Minister and Sisak is Croatia, although you won't believe Sisak doesn't run the HDZ, and I can't help thinking that the reason we're not going to help Sišenka and Sišniki rebuild is because of the earthquakes that he's hit in a hundred percent is exactly that. I don't think there's any reason we shouldn't do this and there's no reason why we shouldn't be enemies to ourselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28141	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28142	Representative Hajdukovic, you are still an international secretary, I think of the SDP, I expected you to have a slightly more serious approach and not to use such non-arguments. I don't know where you get that logic so someone can go discriminate on Sisak or don't let God put him in a more unfavourable position by looking at what the political party in power is in that city because it was a taste of what you're saying. I think, please, I think it is very wrong and very bad, shows a high degree of misunderstanding, partial, fragmentary reading of the text of the law that has been sent to you, not taking into account the situation in the City of Zagreb, in Krapina-Zagorje, Zagreb County and in some way, and almost underestimating the intelligence of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the people who have contributed to the profession to this draft come before HS. I believe we'll have time to clear this up tomorrow, but you won't argue with the Sishkens, surely, that's what I guarantee you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28143	Thank you very much. Comrade Rasdic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28144	Dear Prime Minister Plenkovic, you pointed out that we have fought for these funds, these 11% of our GDP that we will receive in the coming years and you have presented this as the success of the Croatian foreign policy that you are leading. But is it to be commendable that we are obviously the poorest in the EU, or is it implied that these funds are not allocated by clearly defined parameters, rather than that in the European halls something can be displayed under the grains, so that you have chosen for Croatia something more than that which would otherwise belong to us according to our poor economic and social status? It's not a satisfactory answer for me, we're seven years old. in the EU that these countries have entered earlier, you are already 5 years old. in power, and the 5-year-old is one period within which certain economic cycles can be launched, even Marxists who have very little understanding in the economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28145	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28146	If your question is whether the activation and representation of national interests can get more, it can. That's exactly what we did. I remember you from the time before the referendum on Croatia's EU membership. That's when we first met, and that's when I realized that there is no true will in you that Croatia is going the European way. It was clear as day. In a second, I caught it on the radar, and it feels, and in these performances of yours, almost now, so that you are sorry that we fought almost as if you did not consider that Croatia in the '90s was not the beneficiary of a number of pre-accession aid instruments that other members had, that you forget how long we had to catch a step and how brightly and well we have done the past 7 years. And how shall we do in the decade that is before us. If you don't see it, if you don't understand it, it's your problem, and it's not the problem of the Croatian government and those citizens who clearly see things But it's important that people know what positions you're in. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28147	Thank you very much. My fellow Dark Tarrits out of love.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28148	Thank you very much, esteemed President HS, Mr. Plenkovic. So, for a country like Croatia, really these earthquakes that we had opportunity to see and see are the consequences of something that really leaves a deep mark not only in people's lives but also in people's lives, and property is also lost. It's about a devastating earthquake. It's about a big one. From such earth’s perils, they create certain opportunities. Therefore, from this, the result of all this should be a step forward and should be the development of Croatia. Whether we recognize it or if we're able to see it. It is clear and clear that the funds when it comes to rebuilding the City of Zagreb and the public buildings that are paid there on December 18th, we are already in the middle of January. My question is I'd like to know if, at what stage are the competitions being prepared and when will the competition be out because you and I know it's 18 months to use those funds? Thank you very much. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28149	Thank you, well-respected representative, Dark Taritash. Exactly, five billion kunas sat on the account of the Ministry of Finance a few weeks ago. The common rules for the implementation of the competition are over, the competitions are ready and when it comes to cultural heritage and when it comes to health care and when it comes to education at the moment, the final consultation between the resolutions is going to take place and these competitions will very soon be announced, and of course it means the activity of all the actors who want to finance, and you know that we have determined on the government exactly what the actors are and how much funding they are provided for through this part of the European Solidarity Fund. The government is working hard on it. Tomorrow you will have Minister Horvat here, you can ask him a little about it and ask him about it because this topic is related to tomorrow's debate on the non-discrimination of the town of Sisak and to the help of Siske-Moslavina County.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28150	Comrade Cappelly, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28151	Thank you very much, President HS, Prime Minister. In the last 4 years. Europe has changed, has strengthened its position, has become aware of its power, and the time has come to redefine relations between the EU and America. According to this transatlantic partnership, in one more balanced way, it will still be partnered, not stronger with one or the other. So, the importance of resolving trade relations, the process of solving has also been said that in some ways they will approach the moratorium or similar. So, the climate agreement of the Paris Agreement that America has come out of. So, these were all conversations among other things in external relations, such as the eastern Mediterranean, and I would like to see little about how much Croatia was a partner in all of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28152	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28153	Thank you very much. This morning, Minister Grlic Radman thoroughly presented our relations with the United States. He thoroughly put their relationship with the European Union in context, which is quite clear. What will come from tomorrow and beyond will be the return of the United States to multilateralism and multilateral frameworks, agreements, everything that has been done until 4 years ago, from which the United States was one-sided at the time of President Trump. So it's going to be one tectonic change for global governance. I think that's very good. It is also good for relations between the European Union and the United States in a commercial way, in a secure way, with regard to strengthening common global mechanisms, in particular bearing in mind the challenges that the Covid-19 pandemic has put on the agenda for us. As far as Croatia is concerned, these two achievements of the Agreement on the avoidance of Double Taxation and the fulfilment of the visa waiver criteria are a pledge for a whole new relationship with the United States in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28154	Thank you. My colleague, Peovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28155	Good afternoon. You said here you were on the side of Croatia. However, Croatian politics in the European Union is all about everything but not about self-interesting autonomous politics, more about the politics of an obedient student. You stated in the report that relations with China have been discussed several times in the European Council. For some time now, these relations have been aimed at protecting the interests of these rich countries and limiting Chinese investment, although they themselves do not adhere to these rules. These policies are very much followed, and the example has been cancelled by a competition at the Rijeka port without any explanation where the Chinese consortium has offered a double offer. We therefore follow policies of rich EU countries such as Germany. But I ask you a question, in whose interest?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28156	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28157	Dear MPs Peovic, as well as some former representatives, particularly Mr. Zekanovic, who speaks of an impression, so you suggest some impression. Generally, the concept of impression has dominated the last three weeks. That's what I would say is the main topic of our debate after the earthquake in public and political life. You have your own impression. I have an impression. The difference between the two of us is that I sit on European councils and represent Croatia, and you live in an impression based on how to derivated information and how you bring your political views. As for the relationship with China, I mentioned it twice today, it seems to me, there was a topic of protective equipment and public procurement some other MPs have been questioning something here. If it hadn't been for good relations with China, we wouldn't have had protective equipment these years. As for the construction of the Peljega Bridge, a project that will physically connect the south of Croatia with the rest of the country is a strategic character. The reasons for the cancellation of competitions for Luka Rijeka are technical character, not political pressure. It's also your impression.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28158	Thank you. We have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure. My colleague, Peovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28159	Insulting Rules of Procedure 238 insults the MP to bring without any real need to draw my own conclusions based on the impression. So how will I bring them when you've given no explanation? So neither the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure nor the Port Authority gave any explanation as to why the invitation to tender was terminated after a 7-year terminal was built. After 15 years have passed since the first failed launch of that terminal, you're now saying it's an impression.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28160	Thank you very much. There were no injuries to the Rules of Procedure, nor were there insults. It was a classic political speech, nothing more. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28161	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Article 238. The prime minister told MPs Peovic that he was shouting. Since this is not about that Hedarian gereda yelling as an empty speech, but a perfectly legitimate question, I consider it to be an inappropriate attitude towards parliamentary deputies and ask that you give him a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28162	A colleague, Rasdic, cannot be warned first because the Rules of Procedure do not provide for a representative of the government. And secondly, if I were to give a warning about it, then I'd probably be giving warnings all the time. It's not a speech that goes beyond what I consider acceptable. Here you go, colleague Troscott. Now it's your turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28163	Dear Mr Plenkovic, I would like to touch another topic and it is about the European Union Strategy itself with the African Union and Africa, which was the subject and Africa as such is mentioned over 30 times in your Report. I am interested specifically in Croatia since I know that large investments are taking place in the countries of Magreba, especially the land of Egypt on the subject of Africa, do you have a Croatian strategy on INA buying concessions especially concessions in Egypt? And given the country's strategy and the INA itself, do you think and will you sign perhaps agreements on avoidance of double taxation with countries such as Egypt and Angola which are of strategic investment importance for the Republic of Croatia? This is why I ask you for reasons why all other European countries especially in the oil business are looking at special concessions in Egypt to buy, so I look at where Croatia is, given that INA is our brand especially in the Middle East. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28164	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28165	Thank you very much. Mr. Troscott, as far as relations with the African Union and the countries of Africa are concerned, that was the main issue. It was characterized by essentially two important components. The first component is to establish a better political dialogue that was to take place at the right summit between the African Union and the European Union, but it did not happen for objective reasons. He would have been if he had kept up a hodogram of intensive activities in all the areas in the years ahead. The second topic is naturally related to illegal migration. It's a theme that dominated relations with Africa because of the mid-Mediterranean route and of course this western Mediterranean route. As for Croatia and our companies in the area of especially North Africa, INA is not the only brand, there is a whole series of Croatian companies that have positioned in another time for years. And the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, the Ministry of Economy supports all these activities and will, of course, take steps concerning international agreements in this regard when it is shown to be opportunistic and useful.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28166	Thank you very much. And the last replica of colleague Oreshkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28167	Dear Prime Minister, if you and the President of the Republic of Zoran Milanovic are unable to carry out your duties in accordance with the rules of the Croatian Constitution, then you should not do them at all. So, I don't mind the Rules of Procedure of the European Council or I'm interested in already established practice among the members of the European Council, but it bothers me when there is a normal right above and before the provisions of the Croatian Constitution. And it bothers me that the Croatian Parliament is so non-shallantly going over it and keeping silent about it. You are well aware that Article 144(5) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is an integral part of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The President of the State is also required to represent and represent the Republic of Croatia in the European Council. Nowhere in the Croatian Constitution does it say that we can be represented and represented there by Janez Janša. There is no provision, the letters of the Croatian Constitution which gave you the right to empower him to represent all of us there.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28168	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28169	Dear Representative Oreskovic, I see that you too are deficient in the knowledge of the history of decisions. Croatia is a state in the time of some other governments, in the time of some others, the majority was clearly set up at European Council meetings, Croatia representing the Prime Minister. That's how it was, that's how it's gonna be, it's not gonna change. Whoever knows the substance of the debate on the European Council and the diversity of the subject would then, without any doubt, make it clear why. There are only a few countries that have the authority of the President of the Republic to attend these meetings because of its constitutional structure. This is precisely what you have with France, Romania and Lithuania and Cyprus. Everyone else is as fast as the premieres can be, so will we. If we were represented by Prime Minister Janša Slovenije, I think that you should support good relations with Slovenia in view of the circumstances that were then on things and that was a higher power. What you don't understand is your problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28170	You've reported a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Comrade Oreshkovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28171	This is a violation of the Rules of Procedure, obviously insulting and disdaining me as parliamentary representatives, as well as the Croatian Assembly. Therefore, the deficit is the knowledge of the provisions of Article 144. Article 5 And you have a deficit and a reason for more force. No higher power can derivate the provisions of the Constitution in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28172	Comrade Oreshkovic, you have been warned. This is no breach of the Rules of Procedure. We're done with the replicas, so you can return to your seat, Your Honor. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Dear colleague Hajdukovic, on behalf of the European Affairs Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28173	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. At the 10th session held on 19 January 2021, the Croatian Parliament's European Affairs Committee discussed the Report by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia on the European Council meetings held in 2020, which was delivered by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by act of 14 January 2021. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the report in question as a parent working body. The report on the European Council meetings held in 2020 was presented by the State Secretary for Europe at the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, noting that the report covers a total of 5 meetings of the European Council held last February, July, twice during October and December 2020. Since the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia regularly submitted the Croatian Assembly of Reports after each meeting, the State Secretary focused on the last meeting held on 10 and 11 December 2020. She explained that it was the only meeting of the European Council at which the Prime Minister did not participate for health reasons, and Slovenian Prime Minister Janez Jansa represented Croatia at the meeting. The State Secretary explained that it is common practice in such cases because the power to represent can only be transferred to another Head of State or Government. The topics dominated by the European Council meetings last year were the pandemic of Covid-19 disease, the adoption of a new multiannual financial framework for the period from 2021 to 2027, and the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from EU membership. The State Secretary particularly welcomed the allocation of the allotment from the Solidarity Fund after the earthquakes that hit the Zagreb area, Krapina-Zagorska and Zagreb County in March, and the area of Sisak-Moslavina, Karlovačka and Zagreb County in December 2020. In the debate followed by committee members, they expressed interest in the activities of the Republic of Croatia towards the countries of the Western Balkans during the Croatian Presidency of the Council of the European Union when it comes to progress in the negotiations as well as the distribution of vaccines against covid-19. They then referred to the economic effects of the crisis caused by the corona virus, and to the preparation of the national recovery plan and resilience. After the debate was held, with 8 votes for and 4 abstentions, the Committee on European Affairs decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the following conclusion: A report by the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the meetings of the European Council held in 2020 is accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28174	Thank you, too. I'm opening a debate now. The first is the Club of Croatian Sovereigns and the esteemed representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28175	Dear President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. Here's another government report. I have here even today to commend the Prime Minister that he was, he even answered some questions. He even answered some questions, and I dare say he didn't even answer a single question completely as he often did to me and you progress in every case, and I think someone warned you and that you made a little less fun of your fellow MPs even though you're still doing it. I hope that here for the next three years, as you say for 3.5 years, that you will make further progress and that you will answer all the questions and that you will not make fun of your colleagues at all. I'm going to repeat here the few thesis I gave you in my replica. The first thesis was related to Albania's assistance after the earthquake and assistance to Croatia after the EU earthquake. Albania has indeed received over a billion euros, a billion euros in aid, Croatia according to what you have told us 650 million euros, so Albania has received more, Albania has fewer inhabitants and Albania is not an EU member. My colleague Pavić, you told me that this is part of the loan, right, but Croatia will also have to pay back this money that comes into the new EU trade. It's not money, it's not money that's made up, it's not money that Mom Merkel pulled out of a drawer or Scharl Michael don't know who but it's money that someone's going to have to pay back, and it's going to return it proportionally to all the EU member states and you know it. So there's no gift money. I'm not going to say that I'm wrong that we're going to get potential because we haven't won 20 billion and a few billion euros yet, but I'm going to repeat that money already and we're going to get it back to the last June in one way or another. Germany will not lend us or France as much as convince us that it will or will not lend but subsidize. The second thesis I put out, and I have to repeat it here, and that's the the thesis that Mateusz Morawiecki and Viktor Orban are sovereigns. And you responded nicely, wisely in fact, that you are fighting for Croatia, and I later expressed the skepticism and concern that you have put yourself and your career European in the first place, and Croatia in the second, third or fifth place is not important at all in the first place. These two statesmen, so the leaders of Poland and Hungary, have shown uncompromising ways of fighting for their country. They even risked the money they needed to get better than the EU to get what's important to their country, their people. And so do the sovereigns of Hungary and Poland. Unfortunately, I'll say, but I'm sure you're expected to side with those other players, and you've put yourself aside from those big players in Germany and France, and I don't know how much they hold onto you, or how much they respect what you're doing. Perhaps one day it will reward you with some syncure in the European Commission as it was whispered a few years ago, and perhaps in a few years, it will come true, and perhaps not. Anyway, the stakes are very high. And do you know what's at stake? The state of Croatia is a stake. So the state of Croatia plays a role for your possible syncour in the European Commission. If you think about this a little bit, and in 3.5 years you might be talking to Zekanovic, unfortunately he was right, unfortunately he was right. I have pointed out many times and again, you have statistics, you have exact data, and the exact fact is that Croatia is last according to almost all the criteria of development. We were not even the last to join the EU, today we are firmly the last. And that's what's the problem, and that's what the Prime Minister says as soon as you can boast, or what you have to influence. We are talking about the EU next generation of new deals, donated money, how much money we have received so far except for the money we received interventions for the recovery of the earthquake in Zagreb. The figure is extremely clear and round, and it is zero, zero cents, zero EUR, zero kuna, zero kuna. When we get this, I don't know because that European budget hasn't gone as far as I know, so there's still some more to go, there's a few more steps here, and I don't know what's going to happen with that, we're going to get that money or we won't. I don't know, but the money still, still the money, still no money. And in the end, I'd like to ask you here one thing that I haven't been able to say in that short replica, I'm interested in your attitude about control, with the control of social networks or with the control of the state by social networks. Here's your colleague, Trump, also one statesman is Twitter and Facebook has shut down the profiles. What do you think about that, no matter what you're my political opponent I wouldn't want to make it impossible for you or some Facebook or Twitter to talk to you tomorrow via social networks. Even though you have the mainstream media, you can communicate whenever you want. What is Croatia doing about it? I'll tell you what Poland does. Poland has introduced, invented the law, so it has passed a law that protects Polish citizens from the terror of social networks. Whose Facebook is it, whose Twitter is it? Are these state-owned companies, Croatian maybe? No, they're not. They are privately owned, and you are the Croatian Government has given unlimited authority or unlimited action to these social networks in our virtual space and they do whatever they want without any control. And tomorrow, I can turn off, erase, blamme, anyone at any time and answer to no one. I can even influence the extent of your announcements, make you completely invisible or more visible than you are. And you think it's none of your business and you think one day it can't happen to you. So, this is one issue that the Croatian state must deal with because all the parliaments of all normal European countries and world counterparts of Boric discuss this issue, all of them. You only smile here as you smiled and mocked with the declaration of the economic belt, and then you eventually lobbyed to declare it in one funny way that nothing changed and deceived even the opposition and a large part of the public. There is no reason to laugh, but there is reason to react because social networks want it or not, social networks are unfortunately one of the most important channels of communication in the world today. And if we've allowed these channels to do whatever they want in our virtual space, then that's not good. Even though I am one of the great critics and the HRT that is under your control, I still think that you, as a democratically elected Prime Minister, will somehow make sure that this television as little as possible is democratic and let go and opposition and that it shows the real state of things. And what do the owners of Twitter, Facebook, Youtube do, I don't know what social networks I don't know because they don't have electoral legitimacy in Croatia? So, this is one topic that I would like to talk about means on the European Council and tomorrow you come here with a concrete proposal and say that you say that here you are and support that these things have to be regulated without talking about billions and billions of kunas, EUR, whatever else the owners of these channels get out of Croatia every year without the lack of tax paid, without a lack of tax. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28176	We have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure, the first colleague is Pavić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28177	Thank you very much. A colleague, Zekanovic, was injured by an article. In 238, insulting both parliamentary representatives and prime ministers speaking of sinacurams, not realizing that in his own ignorance how the EU budget works, he becomes the hero of France, Germany, Austria, the country of the net payer. The system works in a way that the developed countries pay more, the less developed ones withdraw more. This is how Croatia is developing, and this is where Mr. Zekanovic, instead of Croatia, advocates the attitudes and interests of the German and...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28178	Thank you, fellow Pavić. There was no breach of the Rules of Procedure in the way you interpreted it. I think you've replicated, so I'll give you a heads-up. Here's my colleague, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28179	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Well, a colleague of Zekanovic's injured an article. In 238, in the part where it deviates from the normal rule of conduct in the assembly and presents false statistics as it is characterized by it. He's always talking about some numbers that he's the only one he knows, and everyone else is quite different from that number. And that it's a good shot and a possible future diplomat that needs to be clearly remembered that he was one of the first representatives to congratulate Mr. Trump on winning tomorrow, from tomorrow's former, but I'm saying these are the kind of politicians and we have to understand them sometimes. No matter what's fake, they do whatever they do... [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28180	Thank you very much, colleague Boric, the same thing as colleague Pavić. Here's my colleague, Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28181	238, first I'm going to say one thing here means to my colleague Boric. I, unlike all the other politicians in HS, even in a wider public space explicitly supported President Trump and today when I had to choose between him and Biden, I chose Trump and I don't hide it, and at one point when I thought he had won, I congratulated him. As for colleagues, the EU is giving us more money, and you forgot to tell us how much we give them membership fees, how much labour we give them and how much we buy their products.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28182	Comrade Zekanovic, you are being warned. This really has nothing to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure, or at least any way you've tried to show that it's a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so it's very inappropriate, but what I can do, it's up to you. Now it's the Prime Minister's turn on behalf of the government... Proposer, come in. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28183	Thank you very much, esteemed President HS. I have to look back on some of the comments of MP Zekanovic, first because they are untrue and second...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28184	Comrade Zekanovic, just a little bit of President, please sit down, calm down and sit down. You keep running left and right, calm down and sit down.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28185	Here I am waiting for Agent Zekanovic to settle comfortably. So, you've been developing for many years, and you're not the only one in HS that's been working on some kind of career ambition that you're constantly imputing to me. So, you've spent half of these discussions in the last meeting of HS explaining to the Croatian public that here I am crying out to go immediately to some European duty tomorrow, you've just repeated it. And I will now say to the Croatian public that you and your colleague, Mr Ilčić, were playing around HDZ, about HDZ leadership, went to the coalition with only one ambition, which is to be high on the list for the European Parliament. The only reason you wanted to join us in the coalition is because of that, and then you made an arrangement with the lady. Ružo Tomasic, whom I do not know, will be realized that she, as half-term in this European Parliament meeting, will leave the European Parliament to go there to see your colleague Ilcic. And you see unlike you, unlike your colleague Ilcic's ambitions, me and my colleague Stier are the only ones who came back here. So, all the opposite of yours really pummeling MPs I'm going to break up because, apart from being a lie, they're not the only ones, that's where she preceded her own time. A dark Taritash in it from this party that's 100,000 kilometers to the left of the center. So, these lies you're talking about, your insinuations can pass in some of your society. It was my fault, it wasn't on my initiative, but I was listening to some of my other colleagues at HDZ, that we had you on the list in 2016 and given you a political space to survive. It was one big mistake, and then I had a recommendation from another representative that you two understood each other as something in the EU, even for the first time I met you in Brussels about 5-6 years ago. And you seemed to understand each other. Today you show both your members and your party members, and the entire HS that you have nothing to do with it. So if you had only listened to what I was saying then you would have heard a sentence that we would have received an advance from the EU next generation of EUR 780 million, then you wouldn't have made a mistake if the budget hadn't been adopted. So the whole European Council had its whole purpose in reaching agreement on a multi-annual framework, and you come out here cold and you say it's not even oral. So you have no idea about anything. And that is, it is very important that the public knows that you know nothing, and you are also lying to the Croatian public. And that's what I'm telling you directly because it's a little bit of an exaggeration. Then these concerns about Hungary and Poland and the rule of law. So, as the essence of this Croatia has no problem with the rule of law, Croatia has no problem in controlling European mechanisms the way we spend European budgets, however, we want to be transparent in this, we want to build a culture of good public procurement, good use of European funds and we are not afraid of anything. I have nothing to fear, why would I be against a mechanism that seeks transparency in spending public money if I'm not afraid of anything and I don't have to pack it up in a big battle for sovereignty and protection of national interests. You know, we protected our national interests by providing Croatia with EUR 24.2 billion, and you, Mr. Zekanovic, did not provide anything so that this zero you're talking about is your ignorance of the EU and your contribution to the development of Croatia, and it is our mistake to give you the chance to survive politically in an election unit where we really didn't need you in the last term of Croatian Parliament. And those are the facts and that's what's important. And what you're trying to profit from, the way you're saying it, I can only trust some who are you, and they're not for most, you'll always stay where you are right now, maybe in opposition, and in my opinion after the next election in so-called. the extraparliamentary opposition because it is the only thing that would be appropriate for your knowledge and your contribution to Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28186	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, the first colleague is Peović, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28187	... to warn the prime minister that he is not sticking to the topic of debate, I know that according to the Rules of Procedure, you can only warn the MPs, but I think it would be appropriate to give some type of warning here. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28188	My colleague Peovic, I do not understand how the Prime Minister did not stick to the topic because he responded to what his colleague Zekanovic said. So, I let my colleague Zekanovic speak beyond what is the cover of the fact, but if we're going to look so closely then there's a large number of debates here that are actually off topic. Because it is very clear reports from the European Council that many MPs obviously do not know what is being discussed on the European Council, so when it is discussed, they think that everything about the EU and the topic of the European Council is not. So, please, let's be objective here. We have two replicas, first colleague Zekanovic, three replicas, four replicas. My colleagues, Zekanovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28189	Dear President of the Croatian Government, I know that you are angry that at some point you made the wrong decision, so you put me on the list and that I came to the Croatian Parliament, and then you are still angry at me because I was the only one who gave you the basket and left you for the world supervisor that matters to me, and you don't care about that was the Istanbul Convention. And that's where I've done you good, exposed your unbelief. And it all stands and you can talk about some of your fairy tales who is whom, where, the people chose me and I got my five and a half thousand votes and you can sing. However, a false notor lie because you today have proved to be a liar. Between you and me, the Sanhedrin cordon is neither alone nor will I give you my hand, nor have I asked you, bring me here a man who said that I am with you a coalition for the European Parliament, so that it is no shame for you to invent you so disgustingly, that you are not ashamed. Well, you're a notorious liar, pathological liar, pathological liar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28190	I am now giving you a reminder of what you are doing first is inappropriate, the second raise probably try to compensate for the lack of arguments because we all remember very well what your role was and how you acted when you needed to get to the list, but I am not going to answer the Prime Minister in replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28191	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, you know the truth obviously hurts. This kind of exaltivation by Zekanovic essentially speaks about how much pain he was in what I said and it wasn't him who cried out for the European Parliament at the time, but Mr Ilcic did not even hear what I was saying, and it is quite clear, it was confirmed in these last elections for the European Parliament, so we will see the scenario whether Mrs Tomasic will give him the mandate. As for the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Women against Violence, we had this debate recently here in the Croatian Parliament, so we made it clear, and Mr. Zekanovic was one of those who was spreading pressures on zombies on Croatian streets, cities and others, and there has been more than 2 years and there are no zombies anywhere, and Mr. Exalted Representative who lies about others is able to say these things this is only on the record but most people see it very well. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28192	Thank you very much. Now it's my friend Bencic's turn, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28193	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, since we have all the information that the Solidarity Fund has paid the total tranche for the renewal of Zagreb, Zagreb County and the Krapina-Zagorje County, I am interested in the public interest, and in particular the citizens affected by the earthquake to tell us how many projects have been prepared for the renewal, whether the funds will be used or the funds from the state budget to invest in the fund's capacitation to fit in time and correspond precisely to the citizens about the collection of documents and whether you have allocated funds or people within the state administration to collect the documents themselves that are owned by the state authorities because citizens themselves estimate that they should only collect documents in order to initiate the renewal process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28194	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28195	Thank you, beautiful representative Bencic, I believe that your experience of consultants on European affairs and project documentation is being discussed from you, but it is good and useful and you can make it available to different institutions. As far as the European Solidarity Fund is concerned, it is important to remind the public that it applies to the public. So, what concerns, for example, the cultural heritage component, the education component, the health component, transport infrastructure, all the costs that Croatia had around temporary accommodation, cleaning costs, etc. All that distribution was made. As far as the fund is concerned, I think you're talking about a fund led by Mr. Evangelic he serves as private. So he serves the citizens and their property. On this side, the fund is supplied, i.e. to new employees, to go from other portfolios to be more efficient, so as not to be at the service of citizens in projects that will follow, and we also find new and international sources of funding for these funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28196	Thank you. Now it's my colleague Rasdic's turn, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28197	Your Honor, in your replica, you indirectly accused me of being some kind of Englishman and pretending to be an Englishman long before the Englishman. I have noticed that there is a lack of public debate in Croatia about entering or not entering the European Union. And with a few friends, I organized a dozen highly visited stands with experts from different areas. Some were in favour of joining the EU, some against, if they had learned arguments to compensate minimally for what was completely missing on public television, radio, which is the confrontation of arguments. We only had myths. When it enters the EU, honey and milk will flow. But this EU is no longer the EU it was. In the meantime, let's say there was a Brexit. Reading these documents from meetings, I have not seen anywhere that the question has been raised just criticism as to why most citizens of the United Kingdom have decided to leave the EU. What's wrong with our club? Let's fix it so it doesn't collapse anymore. A complete absence of self-criticism and the labelling of all those who see problems in the functioning of the EU as Eurosceptics or some EU haters. I think Europe should be saved from this bureaucratic structure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28198	Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28199	Well, these are also re-respected MP Rasdic and some of the flat-rate thesis that people like you are not only in Croatia, but also in other countries are putting on the air, some impressions without a standoff in fact. The historic mistake that politicians themselves and the citizens of the United Kingdom who were then Prime Minister Cameron's fault that he went to this referendum at all is something they'd been dealing with for years. We have lost about three years of political tension, negotiations with the topic of when and how the United Kingdom will come out, and you will see in the years ahead what the benefits and enthusiasm of British citizens will grow. Of course, I'm cynical here and I'm cartooning. So people like Nigel Farage who came to the referendum for the first time to Croatia to look for allies like you to tell us that it's not good. I closed up in that debate that we had in that context and I was glad. Later he continued the match in the European Parliament He did the damage. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Now I get the impression he's almost sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28200	My colleague Rasdic, the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28201	Injury of Rules of Procedure 238. The prime minister insults citizens of the friendly UK, more specifically the United Kingdom, believing that he knows better than they do what is right for them. It's a free nation with a much longer democratic tradition than we are. I don't think it was a mistake for someone to call a referendum, ask the people for an opinion. You obviously think it's a mistake. I guess he should've done what you did to stop the referendum with his dicks. So please don't insult the citizens of our friendly countries.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28202	And I would ask you not to violate the Rules of Procedure because you deserve a warning, that's how you get a warning. It wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. It was some kind of replica. And we're going with the last replica of colleague Peovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28203	I'll explain what I've been trying to ask you in the first place. So the report says that several times the European Council has considered relations with China. The stand stresses the need to balance economic relations. Asymmetry in access to the market, addressing the issue of barriers to market access, negotiations on industrial subsidies, respecting equal terms in the area of trade, etc. The specific question is, whenever in the media, how would you say that the tender in which the Chinese consortium had reached has been annulled, that is to say, twice the offer is therefore based on what we read in the report, which is specific restrictive policies towards Chinese capital and Chinese investments. And what I'm asking you is, if you don't want people picking up, give a concrete answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28204	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28205	Says one Latin proverb for lawyers not twice about the same. I've already told you about it, but I'm going to use these minutes to renegotiate the lie that MP Rasdic is now throwing into the air about some kind of referendum theft. It's another hoax of you and you similar over the past few years about the alleged theft of the referendum. That's where the whole thesis of you and your media outlets developed, and you were the ones who were on demos looking for zombies. If you convince me, MP Rasdić, that you have also found a zombie you and you alike have sought in the square, I would be delighted with that, and you would have convinced me that there may be a convention that is meant to protect you, and you are constantly standing there as some protector of the counsel to protect women from domestic violence that is so bad. So you've fundamentally missed the whole ball on the subject. I hope one time it comes to your analysis of your judgments. In your judgments, it obviously didn't come and accuse us of lying and stealing you won't be 100 percent.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28206	Thank you very much. My colleague Peovic what now?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28207	So I have to react again, breach of Rules of Procedure 238. The prime minister is completely exempt from any reasonable debate on this subject, and every time we return to the topic that you have invited us here to discuss, we come up with some completely irrelevant conflicts that no longer have any real connection with that. Then let's stop talking about this. [[Intruder President: Fellow Members, please!]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28208	Let's do this, please. So this is a reminder again because it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. So what you're saying doesn't get in the way of the Rules of Procedure. We can discuss this in some free form outside the assembly, but there's no breach of the Rules of Procedure here. So please stick to what the Rules of Procedure says. Yes, you. Here's a colleague of the Troscott on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28209	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister, respected MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament and, most importantly, our citizens who look at us through the screen. I think it is very important that in this House of ours we can discuss reports from the Brussels meeting, with European leaders in Brussels. And since we are part of this wider European family, it is important that our citizens receive at least a little information with 5 meetings held during 2020. We can agree with the fact in 2020 that the pandemic, covid-19 disease in Europe has been marked in Europe and that our Croatia has unfortunately been hit by two earthquakes and devastating earthquakes in March 2020, in Zagreb and at the end of this year in Sisak-Moslavina County. And in this sense, in 2020, the Croatian people were and is an unprecedented year. However, in 2021, as such, it then requires that the answer to these challenges can and must only be unprecedented. But is that so real? How much we are tromical and irresponsible as a state proves that almost 10 months since the earthquake in Zagreb, so nothing is happening. We've passed the Rehabilitation Act, and there's still no renewal. Permissions, documents, paperwork, excessive red tape is suffocating the Croatian people. And some things like potential stresses of potential illegalities in the restoration of homes after the Homeland War in Sisak-Moslavina County today, unfortunately, come toll. Experiences from the field tell us that in Sisak-Moslavina County a state occurred in the country, where if there were no volunteers and the hearts of those brave people, the question would have been what would have happened to our people if they had stayed in the hands of our government and certain state institutions that were supposed to be on the ground and did not or did not manage. I don't even want to imagine a script like that. But let's get back to the report. At the beginning of last year, we took over the rotating Presidency of the Council of the European Union, where we needed to adapt to the new situation. The chairmanship of the EU Council has been more than satisfied in technical terms and we have already said that. Meetings were held, concerts, continuous sessions were held. But what about the political evaluation? The successful management of covid in that first wave unfortunately remained undetected in the European media and political space. But why is that important to say? Because the country of Croatia, or the Republic of Croatia, was the President of the European Commission. The European media has written about one Portugal, about one Slovakia, and our Croatian country has lagged behind. And so for some maybe Emmanuel Macron, Angela Merkel or Charles Michel in the phone book is a political success without precedent. Perhaps for the personal breakthrough of our Prime Minister, but for Croatia, the political final assessment is that the presidency essentially remained a missed opportunity to stand on the EU stage as a country with a political vision, something similar to what Estonia managed to use as a digital leader. Romania has imposed itself on statistics, Malta by obesity, Austria by security, Finland by transparency. Regarding the rule of law, therefore, the independent judiciary, the fight against corruption, media pluralism of freedom, and the principle of balance between the government and the government are fundamental features of the rule of law. But in the context of the EU, why has the rule of law become an ideological beating and a means of blackmail to impose ideological justice imposed and forced by the Brussels administration. The example is Hungary and Poland. And by worrying about its own sovereignty and national interests, the financial beating cannot and must not be a condition of any incurring to the judiciary, as this is opposed to the basic principles on which the EU rests. Is that the EU we dreamed of? Is this the EU dreamed of by its founders Schuman, De Gasperi, Adenauer, I'm not sure they had such a scenario when they imagined the original economic community. Freedom of speech, the right to freedom of speech, opinions, expressions written and spoken are one of the fundamental things of democratic society and the greatest civilizational achievements. Freedom is the basis for which we must fight. One of the European leaders of Angela Merkel, along with some others, clearly expressed concern about limiting freedom of speech, which took place in the case of Twitter and Facebook locking up a permanent account from Mr. Donald Trump. We don't have to agree with his policies, we condemn all the violence in America. However, we cannot not react to censorships and restrictions on freedom of speech. It is interesting that our prime minister has silenced on this subject, although this has been expected since he follows his political idols that come from France and Germany. Reflecting on the fact that we would be more constructive if, through the Presidency of the Council of the European Union, we had not presented our qualities, interests, potentials to ask whether perhaps Croatia could be imposed as leader in the fight for freedom of speech and thus be branded within the EU and in the world. Instead of going in this direction, the government announces legal solutions that would punish portals for commenting on their pages, which is the introduction to self-censorship, as portals will be easier to prevent comments than to risk high financial penalties. Corruption. The Commission's own report does not state the still present problem affecting the Republic of Croatia. It was mentioned only once within the report, and this is the main reason and leading reason for eviction from Croatia is corruption. Namely, a survey conducted by the Agency of Promotion plus from 2018. Years among Croatian emigrants have proved that the biggest reason for Croatian emigration is not economic nature as we all think it is, but it is a lack of morale and perspective caused by poor policies and states the emigration of the incompetence of our rulings. Also, from Croatia which has almost the same number of Croats in emigration as there are three EU members in the country whose ratio of emigration and population in the country is approximately the same they have found a way and plan to solve this problem in their countries – Portugal, Spain, Poland. All of them are working to get their people back inside their own country. Portugal 6 and a half thousand euros in tax relief, come home. Poland, under the Poljaci project, is returning to or to Poland’s ‘Polish Pores’. The goal is to encourage scientists to return home and work at scientific institutes. Furthermore, all those Poles who were born in the eastern lands have so far been given over 10,000 papers to return. For the first time, Spain has crossed 47 million people because they have gone intensively into a two-year pilot plan of return or on the Spanish "Plan de retorno". The programme contains 50 measures to make Spain an attractive place to develop personal and professional life. And this government of Mr. Andrej Plenkovic, in the context of corruption, unfortunately has no plan. And an important conclusion in this context in the EU seems to me strategic nor is Croatia responsible for calculating with corruption, because it is she who emigrates our Croatian people and fills the demographic holes of Western countries. In this regard, we can co-operate with other EU members, clearly positioning interests, always safeguarding democratic gains and values. But the most important example of Spain, Poland and Portugal must absolutely do everything to get our dick back to Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28210	Thank you. The next club of representatives will be the Homeland Movement on behalf of which the respected representative Stephen Nikola Bartulica will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28211	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President of the Parliament and Mr. Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. I'm sorry the Prime Minister left the assembly. I think it is an exceptional opportunity for us to have a good debate on important issues and for the sake of the Croatian public that our citizens are familiar with the situation of things spread not only in our country, but in Europe. Surely last year, the pandemic of the Corona was a major topic and dominated by the agenda, including our EU presidency. We don't know how this will continue and how long it will last, but we do know that the virus was created in China and that it caused unprecedented trouble around the world. What I would like to appeal once again to the government is to consider abolishing these measures, so we're against lockdown solutions. We haven't seen any clear evidence that it improves the situation. It is seen in Germany, Austria, where it takes a long time. We need to have hearing for our entrepreneurs and we need to allow people to work again. What we know is that for the past year Croatia will have a GDP decline of approximately 10% at least and public finances will have a deficit of 30 billion kuna. We know that. And I will repeat that years of inaction, non-implementation of reforms are now coming to us all. Only now will we see how expensive it is and how painful it will be for Croatia that we did not respond in time. We will now wait for a new national recovery plan, but I believe that many years have been missed and our economy is more vulnerable than it should otherwise be. However, I would refer to some of these topics mentioned by the prime minister, a new budget and this cream deal that is listed. I think it's a list of beautiful desires without a real basis in reality. The reality is at least the economical very difficult, and we know that green policies cost money. I therefore predict that priorities in this next period will be something different than perhaps originally European leaders thought. However, the report mentions various things, so I would say bureaucratic formulations such as the European industry should remain competitive, that transition must be fair and socially balanced, etc. However, the question arises how we will achieve this, what is Croatia's policy towards our own industry, according to our own management of resources. At times, it seems that EU leaders are rather separate from the reality of ordinary people, and that their conclusions do not really interest ordinary citizens as if it were a huge bureaucracy seeking a new purpose, a new purpose of their existence. Unfortunately, we have many examples that point to the ineffectiveness of these institutions that are acting too slowly. For example, in this case of approval of the supply and distribution of the vaccine, I think we have another confirmation of that condition. It is not by chance that Germany has decided to order an additional 30 million doses in Brussels, because things are going too slowly. By the way, I would say that citizens in the UK already over 2 million, 2.2 million have already been vaccinated with at least the first dose so that things go much faster there than in EU member states. Therefore, whether officials in Brussels are alienated or close to people, I think we should think about it, because we end up paying these people. According to recent statements by Commissioner Shuice on the linguistic question whether it is Bania or Banovina, the conclusion seems to me that they are very far away from the problems of ordinary people. I have not yet heard the proposal, for example, how demographically revitalise the area from it, and it is in charge of precisely these issues. It is also necessary to demystify the amount of 24 billion euros available to us. I will only give an example of Slovakia, which will have over 33 billion euros at its disposal in the next period, and Slovakia has a GDP per capita of 5,000 euros larger than Croatia. So, at the annual level of Slovakia today, it creates 20 billion euros more than Croatia, and they have an even greater amount at their disposal. Therefore, these are facts. The same is the fact, unfortunately, that we are in many indicators at the bottom of the EU. Structural reforms have not been implemented, and we will always point to that. It's no excuse that we've had unpredictable events. There has been an earthquake in Zagreb, recent earthquakes have occurred in this area of Banovina. However, we have long listened to these excuses for iniquities, and I repeat such stability so-called. The stability I find false will cost us and we will depend too much on European money. We are aware that grants will be strictly conditioned and supervised, and therefore we propose that most of these funds be directed towards small and medium-sized enterprises that employ the largest number of people and have to and only they can be the engine of future economic growth. No policy must continue where public administration reroutes most of the money to itself, because only the real sector creates more additional values, and certainly no state apparatus. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, we must be careful about all announcements that the agreement on the European budget represents some historic success. We will see how, for example, a new Regulation on conditionality that has caused such a severe reaction by the Hungarian and Polish governments will apply. But surely it could serve some as a new lever in imposing some interpretations of the rule of law that are controversial for many. So there are huge differences in this area, which means rule of law, human rights and so on, and here we will firmly defend the sovereign rights of the Member States in relation to Brussels. This new condition must not become an ideological weapon in the hands of some to pressure some members. And I would refer to the subject of freedom of speech. I welcome and I think it's very good that the German Chancellor reacted quickly to what happened after the election and after recent troubles in America and with Trump's profile. So, I don't think the Croatian government should be silent about this. We lived under a regime where there was no freedom of speech, where you could end up in prison for verbal delinquency, and I think we should be particularly sensitive to these phenomena. People in charge of companies such as Twitter and Facebook must not determine what public debates will look like in Croatia. And if the German Chancellor can put it out loud and clear, I think we can do the same. Why would they be afraid? For us, however, it is the fact that the EU is first in debt as a joint body to finance this seven-year budget. It necessarily means that fiscal consolidation will follow. It's in sight. Which means control of national borrowing and taxation. When such competences are passed on to Brussels, national sovereignty and democracy itself will weaken. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28212	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the SDP on behalf of which a respected representative, Domagoj Hajdukovic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28213	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here in the debates so far we've had a lot of opportunities to hear. What is related to the European Council and what is not I will try to stick to what is in the competences of the European Council, i.e. the Council of the European Union and what has been discussed. The prime minister also said that this is a challenging year, or 2020 was and it is without further ado. However, this year at least as far as the Croatian case is concerned, I would call it a year of missed opportunities. The first great opportunity we missed was the Presidency of the Council of the European Union. Why? Yes, the pandemic found us as well as the rest of the world. Yes, these were unforeseen situations that we couldn't give an answer to, like the rest of the world, we fought for a long time to contain the pandemic. However, there are other things that Croatia has failed to do for us, which is to impose topics that matter to us, not to the Union as a whole, but to countries like Croatia. Therefore, countries that have passed the transition, countries that have entered the EU among the last, countries that have had a difficult way towards both transition and transition to a free market, etc. So we didn't capitalize on that side as much as we could. I think we could do a lot, a lot more despite the pandemic. And finally, where we missed the opportunity are earthquakes. I'm talking first of all about the earthquake that happened in March, not this last one. We haven't had a chance to react properly yet. We had a great opportunity to inhale the new life of Zagreb, our capital city, to think differently about the restoration and not to think more honestly about the restoration in order to really enable everyone to return to their homes wherever possible to make the city more resistant to possible earthquakes. And as we can see and as recent history teaches us, there will obviously be more of these earthquakes. As far as the pandemic itself is concerned, one thing is evident. The pandemic in the world will primarily expand and deepen the differences between the rich and the poor. And if so far you have not seen what the advantages of EU membership are now to be seen. We're members of a strong family, strong where in a situation where if we weren't members, we'd be much harder to cope with in a new situation and we'd have much bigger consequences. Vaccination is probably the best example, because still through EU mechanisms, we will come to a better price of vaccines and the necessary amounts of hope in time. And at the end of the day, of course, there are European funds and the Solidarity Fund, the Fund for Reconstruction and Resistance that we will be able to use. But I must stress that it will depend primarily on us and the way we use them. One of the injustices was the one that colleagues and colleagues mentioned earlier today during the morning, I believe tomorrow, and that is not to treat all areas affected by the earthquake equally. The theme that definitely dominated last year was a multi-annual financial perspective. And while on the one hand we can be satisfied with the amount reserved for Croatia on the other hand, we must again warn that the withdrawal of this money and the realization of what we will do with this money will depend solely on us again. Because a few things we need to demystify, and we're always talking about it in public space, and I'm going to talk about this phone booth. First of all, when we talk about withdrawing funds from the EU funds, the funds agreed at that time are not the funds received. In what way? The projects agreed only ultimately need to pass the audit, although the financial audit says the funds were spent in the way they were supposed to be spent, only then will the funds be paid or received under quotes from the EU. Therefore, always the account we need to focus on has been paid off. On the other hand, the money we receive from the EU in the new financial perspective has not already been spent, has not already been obtained, has not already been given. And I am glad that during the last debate on the report from the EU Council meetings we could finally see this mystical national development strategy. The National Development Strategy has brought many countries long before us, the pandemic has happened to them as much as to us, but they have thought about this national development strategy long before. I believe there will be an opportunity to discuss this in Parliament as well, so there will be an opportunity to say something more detailed about it. But what is even more important and what follows after the adoption of the Development Strategy, which is operational programming and it is only a major test ahead of us. So the money's here, it's reserved for us, but it's exclusively up to us how we're gonna spend it and whether we're gonna spend it. I'm not an excessive optimist, but I hope intimately that I'm wrong and that we'll be able to withdraw and spend that money. But spend on projects that have added value. Namely, what should be said is that European money is our money, that it is not money that is donated or falling from the sky, but money is the same as our money and money of the Croatian state budget and should not be used on projects that will not have added value in the long term and that will not enlarge our infrastructure, lifestyle, quality of life, social progress etc. When I talk about pointless projects, I can list millions of them for you. So, when people are thinking and we have a chance to get money from EU funds let's spend on some projects that we might not even think about having. What is the actual reach of these projects, the restoration of various locker rooms, football clubs and the like, we can speak for ourselves, or testify for ourselves, and that is also the further depopulation and demographic problems we face. It's not all that bad, of course. I must also welcome the fact that we have made decisions about the system of own resources here in parliament, I think it is a good thing, that we are also discussing things, demystifying things, pointing things out, and that we are among the first EU members to do so. If I'm not mistaken except for us, only Cyprus has done so far. But of course this depends also on the social or political arrangement of certain Member States. Some are told that parliaments must make those decisions, not in some. We were among those who were in the gray zone and I am glad that the prime minister and the government decided to hold the debate in parliament. As far as the region is concerned, so-called The Western Balkans of Zagreb have received some results, I am sorry that it could not have been maintained in the format as planned, but the region and EU region approach is primarily BiH, but other countries are the topic which is extremely important for Croatia and this is the topic on which it will continue to insist, since focus, I must say, by Portugal's presidency there is little loss. Portugal, for example, is much more important in Africa and cooperation with Africa than in the Western Balkans, but Croatia together with other countries of the region that know the situation very well and who knows how important stability in the Western Balkans is and for the security of the entire EU must continue to potential this topic. As far as the pandemic is concerned, I'm gonna go back a little bit. I am glad that we have found a common response, after little and unaccountable, of course it is not only to Croatia but in general the whole of Europe. I'm glad that vaccination continues to be systematically carried out and I'm going to join the calls of those who say that everyone who can be vaccinated because that way protects themselves and others. But what is even more important is that we use smart means of recovery and strengthening resilience. I stress that these are the means of purpose we have the opportunity to use them to strengthen both our health system and other infrastructure, and it is an opportunity we must not miss because we ourselves know in what state our health system is primarily infrastructureal. Climate change is the same theme that dominated the whole year, and I would say that the plan is to reduce the emissions by 50% by 2030, and by 2050 it becomes climate neutral, a little too ambitious especially if we take into account the consequences, the economic consequences before the pandemic that weakened the economy of all EU members. I asked the question here, but I have not yet received an answer to how this will affect the Croatian economy. And finally, when we talk about security, Croatia is a safe country, but I'm afraid that it's getting less and less secure, and while in Europe we're discussing extremism motivated by Islamic extremism or some religious and so on, we're the victims of our own extremism, our own impatience, the prejudices that have been shining for years and what's manifested by that unfortunate attack on Mark's square. In such a context, I think it was funny that our prime minister sent a letter to the President of the European Council and the European Commission about how we met these challenges because it is evident that we do not know.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28214	Thank you very much. The next club is the centre and the GLAS on behalf of which the respected representative, Anka Mrak Taritash, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28215	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, these have been reports for the past year, for this year, which had exploded directly in our face at the very beginning. First basic with Covid-10, i.e. the crown, and when it comes to Croatia as if it wasn't enough then March 22nd was an earthquake. When such a thing happens to you, of course, that in most cases you fall on the floor, but you need to get off that floor, you need to shake a little off your shoulders all that is and move forward and we will see how much Croatia as the country is ready and how responsible and hard and all the accidents really are a special story, but the second story is an earthquake, strongly and clearly there are great problems that are turning into opportunities and we will have opportunities to see. But let me also briefly refer to the Presidency of the EU Council that Croatia did in the first half of last year. Unfortunately, we have to be realistic there too, this presidency has been completely under abnormal circumstances, as I have already said explosions and pandemics Covid-19 and then to repeat it as if it wasn't enough for Zagreb to happen and a devastating earthquake. This in other words means that Croatia will have to wait for the next opportunity to show in full terms what is in place as a responsible and serious EU member because all these circumstances were beyond what could be expected and prepared. But back to the European Council, which is the main theme of this report. The fourth page of the report says that Croatia will have more than €24.2 billion from all European sources for the next 7 years, with €683 million to recover the effects of the earthquake in Zagreb, and then we had two more counties, which is Krapina-Zagorska and Zagrebačka. And that's where we get the problem we keep warning about. That 682 million EUR Croatia was awarded last year. The first 88.9m in August and the rest of almost 600m euros on December 18th. Unfortunately, no competition has been opened to this day on the basis of which the money would start to be invested, and it is unknown when the competitions will start. I asked the prime minister and he answered here's everything being prepared, everything's being arranged, almost. When it was about the law that's going to be going on tomorrow, so I'm really going to end up here and I don't want to use this time for it, there'll be plenty of time, then the answer was that the approach was systematic, that the approach was complete and that it was moving. So far, as far as I know, a trust fund has been established, and we have a trust fund manager in office, and we're done with that story. What our fellow citizens and what we all see together is the great documentation that needs to be collected in order to be individually with their private investments and with their homes where they live. It's no problem for you to build offices that will help someone to apply, the request has to be such that anyone can handle it, but I'm really going to end up there and put an end to it. We have the money that is intended and which has arrived in Croatia and which is intended for the restoration of public purpose buildings and we have to spend it within 18 months. And then we get into trouble, so technically we're done, but then we stop. And that's the whole time when it comes to the government of Andrej Plenkovic, only they're not, but they're not. I guess that's the principle of phasing out what I'm thinking all the time about what that's supposed to mean. And this is actually a summary of the fundamental remarks that we have today and always have when it comes to the debate on our participations in the meetings of the European Council and other EU bodies. Every day that passes becomes increasingly clear how important EU membership is for Croatia and how much easier and accessible things are when you are part of a community of strong and successful. And as long as I speak from this pay phone or anywhere else, I will emphasize it and stand up for it. But unfortunately, to be strong and successful, you need to do something, and that's where we get the key problem. There is, therefore, nothing controversial in the decisions cited in this report. It's a dispute when we come home from a meeting except to boast of the enormous amounts that we've worked out, things don't happen or happen sloppyly, too slow and irresponsiblely. An example of the money for the earthquake recovery is only one in a series of these. We also boast of the 24 billion Euros we will have at our disposal, and we forget all the time that Croatia remains among the worst in the EU by using funds from different funds and programmes. The money that is constantly mentioned, even in this report, will not fall from the sky, nor is it guaranteed unless we make a serious effort to use it. Where is the national recovery plan, I can't, of course, ask Prime Minister Plenkovic because he's gone, but I can ask all of you. He's always announcing himself now, he's going to, but he's not. I am not clear at all how the government intends to use the first 10% of the funds that can be used this year when the plan has not yet been made, and the procedure of approval by the commission and the council when the plan is over can take several months. That plan must be made first, then discussed and adopted in the assembly unless there are any intentions and some ideas to bypass the assembly. I hope you don't, and it wouldn't be good if you did, but I've seen a lot of things before, so I wouldn't be surprised. Since mid-October, the European Commission has called on members to start delivering drafts of their plans, in mid-January or better said the other half. Otherwise, these plans will be assessed by how they fit the objectives of green development with particular emphasis on digital technologies, clean energy and energy efficiency. And there's the key to the problem. It's good for our prime minister to go to meetings, it's good for him to keep us informed, but what would be good is to start working at home. It will soon be a year after the prime minister returned from Brussels and said that the maltenes are 24 billion here in the bag, and we saw that the preparation for the withdrawal of that money is very little of that preparation. At the same time, I have used this opportunity many times to warn Croatia still has no low-carbon development strategy, green plan, the goals of achieving climate neutrality by 2050 are important goals. But if we don't take them as something that's around the corner, which is there, or we have to get to work and we can't miss the train again. This train for Croatia would be and there could be a chance of new development, through new technologies, through changes in economy and production and finally catch a connection with developed and successful because if we don't catch them, they'll run so far that it won't even be possible to make it. Of course, when we look at Eurostat a little bit to see that clearly, a clear indicator of where Croatia is. And what would somehow be a message for our prime minister, that we are an active and proactive member of the EU is good and we support it. I'll go so far as to say that I really don't think that our relationship with the Union is, no matter what other colleagues say or say, the relationship between a strict teacher and a frightened student. This does not mean, of course, that we would not like to support and support some topics where Croatia takes on a stronger initiative. What would really make us happy, which is an initiative on home ground, an initiative when we get back from Brussels that everything we're saying is real and we're doing, but this initiative on domestic soil is too weak, too weak. Croatia will not become an EU member's right to achieve all the ideals that led its founders without making more effort at home. Our prime minister has a guard, has a position, sits at the table on which decisions are made, but finally he should turn it into a faster, stronger and more meaningful development of Croatia. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28216	Thank you very much. And the last club is that green-left block on behalf of which the respected representative Bojan Glavasevic will speak. Here you go. I'm sorry, I was wrong. There's another club, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28217	Any debate on the meetings of the European Council is, in fact, a debate on the European policy of our government, but also on the policy of the European Council. From this pay phone all last year, we have shown dissatisfaction mostly with the way this government forms European policies away from the public and citizens. We believe that this is a serious problem in regular circumstances, and in exceptional circumstances such as those in which we unfortunately find such intransparency can have very difficult political consequences. The government does not work to bring European issues closer to citizens, does not carry out an evaluation, does not carry out an impact assessment of the rules when we implement European legislation, does not involve citizens in the debate on important European topics such as the enlargement process, and attitudes that premiums or its representative, as we have had the opportunity to see at council meetings are even delivered to the Committee on European Affairs for Knowledge without the possibility of the Committee participating in their creation. It's about involving citizens in creating these views that we don't even talk. On two occasions, at council meetings, Slovenian Prime Minister Janez Jansa represented Croatia. We would like to point out that we do not consider it a controversial decision to say, instead of the prime minister, the prime minister of another EU member country, it is indeed a common practice. We feel the disputed decision to be precisely Janez Janša's politician whom I would not really call a friend of Croatia in view of the fact that his policies towards Croatia were all but friendly through his various mandates. In addition, Janšina congratulated Donald Trump after Trump lost his election as well as his murky connections with unfair European autocrats such as Viktor Orban make him the only one of the worst candidates for Croatia's representative, he said only Viktor Orban himself. Why did the prime minister not elect a prime minister or prime minister of another country who is politically closer to the alleged moderately conservative HDZ, such as Sebastian Kurz or Angela Merkel? And more importantly, why did the prime minister remember to ask the President of the Republic to take part in a council meeting instead only at the last minute and several months after Jansa had already spoken on our behalf? On this occasion, according to publicly available information, the president of the Republic was not offered to participate in a council meeting instead of the prime minister, if it is different to expect the prime minister to brief us on this. From our perspective, it seems that the relationship between the prime minister and the president simply to that end is bad that they are unable to agree on co-creation of European and foreign policy in which they share responsibility. The greatest damage to our citizens and citizens, as well as Croatia's reputation, is the same. We sincerely hope this situation doesn't happen again. At today's session of the European Affairs Committee, we also talked about the enlargement of the Union. State Secretary Metelko Zgombic said that during our Union presidency, it was achieved that I would quote: "a little wonder in the follow-up of these processes". I referred to the prime minister two months ago a parliamentary question about Bulgaria's blockade of negotiations with Northern Macedonia, and I didn't get an answer. I'm asking the prime minister who's not here today, though. Does Macedonia today feel the positive effects of this alleged little miracle, has Croatia engaged in any way in ensuring the country's fair treatment? The prime minister has told us nothing but a very pale press statement about how he hopes to find some solution to the blockade. How exactly will a solution be found without serious involvement by the Holy Spirit? Macedonia is a country with which we share strong historical, cultural and other ties and Croatia should be her best friend on its European path. I remind you that the Macedonian government on the same day that a devastating earthquake hit Banija and the rest of Sisak-Moslavina County on a financial aid decision for Croatia worth around EUR 100,000. Unfulfilled 2 hours after the earthquake, Macedonian Prime Minister Zoran Zaev publicly addressed Prime Minister Plenkovic with the following words that I will not translate because I find them understandable and untranslated: I am receiving strong support for the prime minister of Andrej Plenkovic and a lot of Croatian citizens affected by earthquakes. Vu's name on the citizens, and in Northern Macedonia, I express my condolences for the victims. Solidarity is the first of the impulses in moments, we ensure that we are crawling with help with our own needs." I don't know if the prime minister responded to this gesture, and the wider question is what candidate countries like Macedonia or Albania and their citizens can expect from their accession process if Member States and even those like Croatia who have experienced unfair treatment in their own skin in the accession process and attempts to turn their hands in order for a member state to benefit. I'm sure the prime minister remembers it well because he himself likes to stress frequently was part of the negotiating team, and in part because some circumstances are similar. Namely, the prime minister of the country who unfairly blocked our negotiations was his chosen one, Janez Jansa, and then his government nodded and eventually fell. That blockade cost us dearly and reversed our accession to the Union. Can we really calm our consciences watch almost the same thing happen to Macedonia and do nothing. Good friends do not close their eyes to injustice, and I believe we will agree that we want our country to be a good friend to our neighbours who have already been forced on their European path to very difficult decisions and concessions. It's final. We want to say that we are not satisfied with the way this government creates and runs European policy. There are some positive steps. After all, our regular debates at this place testify, but if we really want our citizens and citizens of the Union to feel like their own, if we really want to be actors whose importance and engagement surpasses the human affairs agreements brought far from the public's eyes, then we need to be more transparent. We need to involve more citizens, strengthen them, help them engage equally. This should be the goal of every government regardless of its political orientation.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28218	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of HDZ, and on his behalf will speak the respected representative Marko Pavić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28219	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, dear ministers, assistants, colleagues and colleagues. It is my pleasure that we in Parliament are constantly discussing the reports of the European Council. As the prime minister pointed out, and today we have been on the Committee on European Affairs, so every European Council has never been so many Prime Ministers in the House and so much has included the Parliament and explained so much to the citizens of European policy, so I am surprised at the fact that we are not transparent here. And just last year, it shows the value of the EU, shows the strength that we are part of the club, shows strength and European funds and solidarity in the earthquake, and that for the first time in history we have chaired the EU Council. This appropriation is intended to She's on her way to the presidency, and today, when we remember the priorities we've chosen, we're just saying we've chosen them well. A Europe that grows 1800 billion euros in the entire multi-annual financial framework package from the Recovery Fund. Europe that protects, protects us both in crises and is solid in the situations that we have had with earthquakes, Europe that connects and Europe that is influential. So far, no presidency has had such challenges from covids, earthquakes and the potential collapse of the economy and social structure where both the Member States and the Member States may not have been able to cope with the crisis in the first days of the crisis, but then the Union community has shown itself. There were some criticisms that there was no initiative. Well, I didn't see that! Just when we talk about the multiannual financial framework, Croatia was supposed to have a billion and 800m euros less. I remember Minister Radman having weeks of meetings to lobby and convince both the Commission and our partners in Europe that Croatia deserves more. And on one of the billion and 800 euros, we came to 24.2 billion euros. The key topics that were on the European Councils were primarily related to the carbon crisis. Today, we forget that the Croatian Presidency initiative has been flexible by European funds and that the first funds for the crisis have been provided from the EU funds through a legislative framework that has never been adopted more quickly in the history of the EU. This has provided over a billion kuna credits for our entrepreneurs, billions of kuna incentives for employment. Also all the equipment that was obtained from China. There have been discussions in Croatia on Croatian-Chinese relations. All that equipment was paid from EU funds, and precisely because of the good relations between the two prime ministers, we had no problems like some other countries that were stealing equipment from each other in the middle of the crisis, buying in Frankfurt with cash coming and carrying equipment. We had a national airline, sent it directly to China, paid by European means that equipment and provided for all of Croatia. We knew that despite the crisis, we would have great resources. We knew because we were the country's chairman, so we secured, i.e. the government secured Prime Minister Plenkovic 8 billion kuna to protect 600,000 jobs. And despite the fact that we're even 30 billion in deficits, we've given unprecedented strong support to the economy we've had an increase in credit ratings. And by tax reform, they relieve citizens, not raise taxes. There has been criticism that some countries are fighting better with the covid, that Croatia may not be the best there is. Well, here, I pulled the numbers yesterday. The rate of infecting the 14-day average on yesterday Croatia 287 newly infected on 100,000 inhabitants, we are the sixth best in Europe. It's interesting that everyone talked when we were first and second. The headquarters and the government have introduced measures, and now nobody's saying we're sixth, we're down 32% when we're looking at a 7-day middleman, which is the third best score in the EU. Germany today announces mega lockdown and with mega lockdown worse results than Croatia. That's the result of the Staff's work, that's the result of the government's work. When we talk about vaccination, it is also important to say that the value of EU membership, that the European Commission has negotiated for vaccines. We'll provide enough for all citizens. Today, as far as I can see, the Commission has come out because it would like 70% of EU citizens to be vaccinated by the beginning of the season, and we will provide enough for our citizens through the next month two, over a million citizens will be vaccinated. It is the same strength of the EU, the power to order an additional amount of vaccine from more producers, and what the initiative also said is some have no initiative, so it is Croatia's initiative that the surplus vaccines go to the Western Balkan countries. Some think it happened by accident as well as the presidency. No, it is the work of the Croatian government and it is a work to improve the international position of the Republic of Croatia. In individual presentation, I will detail all aspects of the multiannual financial framework. But we heard the total amount of 24.2 billion euros, which is the means for recovery, which is the means for a multi-annual financial framework. Once again, as proposed in 2018. 1.8 billion euros we should have had less than in this envelope, and in this envelope we could have had a billion euros more. We could now give billions of euros to our economies more that in 2013, the government ured on a multi-annual financial framework that clearly prescribed that countries that had had a crisis and entered the EU before 2013 receive 10% more, only Croatia entered 2013. If we had responded then, we might have had a billion euros more for our businessmen and these are the results of the SDP government, and 24.2 billion euros are the results of the HDZ government and Prime Minister Plenkovic. And it is no ordinary rotation, it is a clear reflection of Croatia's position in the EU and the reputation we have and it is modern sovereignty. He was Mr. Zekanovic, I don't know that he really doesn't understand how the EU budget works, on the one hand we have 17 countries of cohesion such as Croatia that pay less, on the other hand we have 10 countries of the net payer who pay more membership fees. Why do they pay more? They are not stupid either, they pay more because they ensure access to the entire EU market. And he discovered new sovereignty by defending the positions of taxpayers in Germany, France, Austria and other wealthy countries. Yes, Croatia already has 30 billion kunas more obtained than is paid. There have been questions and enlargements, there have been criticism that we haven't done enough to block northern Macedonia now. Well, it wouldn't have been possible to block northern Macedonia at all if it hadn't been for the Zagreb Summit and Prime Minister Plenkovic's initiative. And that's not what we say, thanks to both the prime minister of Albania and Northern Macedonia. If Croatia hadn't... some major countries who wanted to kill the enlargement completely, who wanted to change the methodology and didn't put it at the Zagreb Summit at the top, the ministers wouldn't have made an enlargement decision at all, so no one could block it. And now it is a matter of criticism that we haven't done enough, we have done as much as we could in those moments of crisis to put our position to show our neighbours the European perspective, and this is also now seen when both the European Commission and the Council's conclusions are going towards making the surplus vaccine go to the Western Balkans. The HDZ's overall club will support this report, I think it has made it very full in the last year and that the report shows the value and importance of EU membership. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28220	Thank you very much. We move to individual debates and will be the first to speak to the respected representative Milan Vrkljan. He's gone, he's losing his right to debate, and then he'll speak to the esteemed representative Ivan Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28221	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister with an associate, dear colleagues and colleagues. Topics that extend through the work of all five meetings of the European Council held in 2020. are climate change, security and, of course, the global pandemic of covida. We've made a lot of progress since the worst stage of the pandemic of covida-19 disease, but the virus is still circulating between us. What is the common conclusion of all EU member states that have been going through different stages related to the number of newly infected is the conclusion that a better and stronger public health response is needed, and that is another of the roles of the EU to serve strengthening and to serve coordination. The two fundamental questions discussed during the covida-19 epidemic are the question of testing and, of course, we have welcomed the arrival of the vaccine as called the light at the end of the tunnel. We had different discussions about the covid epidemic and in this House of Commons, so we had different approaches so that in the morning there was a push for greater restrictions, and in the afternoon we talked about the dangers of human rights. The government of the Republic of Croatia headed by the Prime Minister, Mr. Andrej Plenkovic, opted for health and economic security, the postponement of more restrictive measures by the end of November was precisely related to the economy and sustainability of the functioning of the Croatian health system and it was achieved. It has already been mentioned now according to the latest data by the Republic of Croatia, the largest two-week decline of newly infected in the EU, and we have simply seen a situation where some member states have imposed restrictive measures long before, so they have now caved in, so let's say one Switzerland has far worse numbers at this point than Croatia has ever had. It should therefore be mentioned that the European Commission has already presented on 17 June a European strategy that has been linked to the acceleration of vaccine development and that a large part of the emergency support instrument has been mobilised, amounting to EUR 2.7 billion. The first steps towards building the European Health Union were fixed on 11 November. And as I have already mentioned, therefore also on the subject of testing, there has been a debate on both rapid antigen tests and a recommendation from the European Centre for Disease Control, which has actually suggested PCR testing as a golden standard in testing. We have now come to the situation, so after conditional approval on 21 December for BioNTech Pfizer vaccine and 6 January 2021 for Moderne Croatia has provided a sufficient number. The last meeting of the European Council was also discussed on the Western Balkan countries and I think that there are several reasons why the role of the Republic of Croatia is to help our people, the Croats living in BiH, and this is why the prime minister said that more doses of vaccines that could then be donated because unfortunately BiH has no single health ministry than there are at entity level, or at Federation level, each canton has its own health ministry and that things would now only be in March and April, they also had a problem with the payment of the COVAX mechanism, only in April should the vaccination begin, and then there would be a practical acquisition of certain immunity in May and June, and then there would be considerable implications for the tourism season in Croatia, not only in this border area but also further. For example, Covid-19 Croatia has shown its responsibility and contributed to making coordination stronger, the health system more resilient and better prepared for future crises.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28222	We have one replica of the respected representative Pavic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28223	Dear colleague Celic, here you have just discussed part of the debate on the European Councils. Here I am today looking at a little infection data and the last 14 days or 14-day average. Croatia is 6th in line in the EU, ahead of us are only Romania, Bulgaria and Hungary that have similar figures where Croatia has 287 infected on 100,000 inhabitants and slightly less than the infection of Greece and Finland. Sweden over 1,000, Ireland over 1,000. There are strong criticisms that headquarters was doing something bad, and we see that on the one hand we have secured one of the most successful seasons of tourism within the EU, and on the other hand, here, so the results say the headquarters and the government really know what they're doing.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28224	Dear Representative Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28225	Well, Your Honor, Representative Pavic, I agree with you. What is important now, so here we have shown the functionality of the Croatian Health System although there was one period when there was indeed a great number and a great amount of pressure, but I will remind you that the President of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, said that the capacity to meet the intensive care department at the last meeting was 82%, which in some ways corresponded to the data from the Republic, there were problems, but at no time happened that the system collapsed. What needs to be done further is the development of communication strategies on the promotion of vaccinations, not only at national level but at EU level, and that is one indication. There have also been considerations and certain problems by the World Health Organization, but this current situation shows us that the European Health Union is very much needed.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28226	Thank you very much. The next debate will be the respected advocates of Mariana Petir, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28227	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President HS, MPs and deputies, Mr. Minister. Last year it was extremely difficult for Croatia, and as we fought as the vast majority of countries in Europe and in the world with the covid crisis, the terrible earthquakes that hit the City of Zagreb, Sisak-moslavina, Zagreb, Krapina-Zagorska and Karlova County, and the flood that hit the Vrhorna end have made it even more difficult already. Fighting on the one hand for the health of citizens, on the other hand to preserve jobs, support and assistance provided during negotiations at European Council meetings is given additional importance and dimension. Croatia has secured for 7 years. EUR 24.2 billion, with an additional EUR 683 million being provided for the recovery of earthquake damage in Zagreb. As a result, we receive EUR 5 from the European budget on each invested euro. It is the amount that double the volume of funds that Croatia had available for the period 2014-2020 and represents one of the largest amounts per capita and aid intensity that the Member States have chosen in these demanding negotiations. This is a good starting point for the continuation of reforms, implementation of development projects, promotion of investment and rapid economic recovery. It is in preparation to develop the National Recovery and Resistance Programme and I am pleased to hear that Croatia is at the speed of preparing the document in the first half of the Member States. It is important to make sure that in all projects where reform is sought, 20% green, 20% digital, because this is primarily investment and sustainable development. This is also a sign of the fight against climate change, with the EU continuing to be the leader of these activities because it adopted ambitious legislation implementing the Paris Agreement at European national level. As its new growth strategy, the Union has adopted a European Green Plan that will bring radical changes in the coming decades and lead Europe to becoming the first climate neutral continent. It is extremely important for Croatia to participate all Member States on the basis of the principle of fairness and solidarity and taking into account the different starting points and national circumstances of all Member States. It should also be mentioned that during the Croatian Presidency, when it comes to EU enlargement to the Western Balkan countries, what seemed unsatisfactory at the time. In fact, all Member States were of course busy fighting Covid and were facing themselves, but we managed to revive the negotiations and a new methodology was agreed for opening negotiations for Macedonia and Albania. I would remind myself once again of the unfair status some Member States have treated Macedonia, and we see that, unfortunately, they continue to do so. Such footing should stop the team more because we have one of our own experience of unreal obstacles set before us on a thorny path to Croatia's EU accession. That is why I appreciate the efforts our government is making to help Macedonia on its European path. Regarding the topics dominated by the European Council session, I would like to highlight another very important topic, which is the fight against radicalisation, violent extremism and terrorism, which is becoming a growing problem before which we cannot close our eyes. We must finally put an end to misunderstood tolerance and understand the dangers radical ideology poses to our freedom and European way of life and stand firm against them in time. These attacks by certain radical secularists, anarchist groups and Islamic fundamentalists must be contained in the root. We must not allow fundamental human rights in Europe to remain empty words, and this will happen if not all citizens. It is therefore important that our efforts continue to be balanced towards both the financial aspect and the preservation of our European values. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28228	Thank you. We have one replica of the respected representative of Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28229	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear MPs Petir, as a representative in the European Parliament, you are very familiar with the advocate for better climate change that has mainly come from Scandinavian countries and countries in Northern Europe, which is kind of understandable. Countries that are better and more modern Western democracies are more talking about the topic than the newer EU member states have many other problems. So what I would just like to mention here, I absolutely support Macedonia's entry into the EU, but what is a potential problem both Denmark and the Netherlands and France have been talking about, and that is the issue of illegal substances. We also had a recent situation that 2 tons of marijuana stolen from the field of legal marijuana cultivation for medical purposes, on the other hand we have an announcement. Prime Minister Zaev, therefore, is one problem that may pose a certain obstacle to further developing EU entry negotiations. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28230	Thank you. Dear Representative Petyr, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28231	Thank you very much, Vice President. I agree with you that in fact, all the countries that claim to be EU member states must meet very demanding criteria. After all, we have fulfilled them, so that some of the activities you mentioned yourself cannot be supported, but they are newer dates. Macedonia was ready to open negotiations 15 years ago, so it was left in the waiting room just because someone didn't like her name. After that unfair obstacle has succeeded, I would say to solve it in an even more unfair way because it literally pushed Macedonia to change its name, which the precedent is unremembered in these areas, we now have another Member State which, due to some of its internal impulses and choices that are closer to putting obstacles to Macedonia again. So I think that should be different from what you've quite rightly addressed as a problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28232	Thank you very much. The next debate will be a respected representative of Mira Bulja.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28233	Here's what you'd like to say first to the citizens. The people who watch this, have heard the good news today.../incomprehensible/... says Andrej Plenkovic boasted himself I, I regret that he is not Ministers here, that he has secured 24 billion EU funds for the next 10 years, that means 2.4 billion kuna per year pardon. What we're tribbing.../incomprehensible/... 500, 600 million a year means falling below EUR 2 billion. At the same time, the foreign exchanges that are sent by people emigrated because of poor policies are larger than the 2 billion euros that Andrej Plenkovic boasts. A man who boasts that he has set up Dubravka Shuic in the EU that still slows down how the earthquake of people in chaos, terrified, we have the dead, she discusses what is called Banovina. It could have been very easy to resolve this person for demographics in the European Commission that the force with Milorad Pupovac was a coalition partner and let them agree, and then the colleague Petir agreed. This is resolved in 3 minutes, as it has experience from the European Parliament, with Milorad Pupovac, the coalition partners, you, Milorad, Stier, Celic, the minister known as ours, the great defender of Andrej Plenkovic, Pavić, the minister of ours here and the arrangements, as is called Banovina. In the collapse of the system, the Croatian state, you say that security is mentioned in the European, here, councils. So the migrant crisis, Croatia left you all bounds, Schengen doesn't exist, borders are fenced by wire, migrants are here at the entrance to Croatia, entering uncontrollably, I don't know, can you tell the ministers how many tests there were on Covid of those migrants that you are here, who are now going through hundreds every day. Is that security? E while Sebastian Kurz, Minister, i.e. Prime Minister, Chancellor, Austrian,.../incomprehensible/... the borders are closed, no more open borders except Croatian. Now, my Andrei Plenkovic, Prime Minister, is not important enough here. It should be boasted where it should be, where the interests of the Croatian people are protected, and not where he named the person, he pushed and boasted at the EC for the demographics of the person Dubravko Shuic who absolutely did nothing for the demography, 2/3 of Croatia is empty. The crisis has shown that we are not self-sufficient in food products and now the EU imposes on us, you well said Minister Pavic, former, colleague-in-law, that to them the market is Croatia, so he will sell his products. They've even banned us from a new seed proposal, a little more sighting of a lip-smelling pomace than the one you can play tennis with after two years of standing in your house, GMO. Large multinational companies benefit from Croatian interest, Croatian villages and peasants and Croatian production, in the end, so we are within the EU. So is it possible that the great Prime Minister, that the Brodotrogiers didn't receive their salary for six months? That Danko Končar and his attorney teams are in charge of the prime minister. Is it possible, great Prime Minister, he's high enough to, what, boast, whether, reminds me of Ivo Sanader whether, enough. Is it possible you're at 5:00? Uh, here, colleagues from HDZ, cleared the fee, i.e. 50% reduced for teleoperators, i.e. For the frequency, they didn't cut the citizens, did they?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28234	Buddy Bull, that really has nothing to do with this point.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28235	I didn't understand. Give me back my time first.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28236	I told you it really had nothing to do with the point, so please get back to the topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28237	You really think, Mr. Rainer, that I'm one of those MPs that the people have chosen here that you're going to tell me what I'm going to say? I am saying that within the EU, Croatia is a subject, that teleopers have the highest profit, and the Croatian government headed by Prime Minister Plenkovic, with the help of the Misetic dynasty forgives teleopers 50% of the fee, while our citizens are nowhere to be found, is our citizens' most expensive mobile phones in Europe. It is the EU Council, it is a blatant prime minister and it is a topic that we must discuss. Mr. Reiner, 2/3 of Croatia... [[Specially enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28238	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Comrade Bull, you'll get a warning for that now. Here you go. Uh, we have a replica of the esteemed representative of Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28239	Dear Mr Bulj, one of the most important topics, at least in this EU report were migration. Today we had the opportunity to listen to how, for example, they arranged their relations with their eviction, I speak, Portugal, one Poland and Spain that made strong programs to return their diaspora to their homeland. You come from the Dalmatian Zagora where the Croatian population has emigrated, so let's say for example the region or, say, Slavonia, where you are well known, say the consequences, positive or negative, of our government and this, can you see that our Croats are coming back, at least this one, by these programs, as they return to Portugal, Spain and Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28240	Mr. Bull's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28241	Thank you very much. In the last term, i.e. A few years ago, the Bridge had its entire package of laws to return the Croats. The return of Croats from the diaspora who pushed the policies away. You have 2/3 of Croatian empty today and now it's amazing to everyone when I'm talking about it, that it's not just Zagreb Croatia but 2/3, and my Zagora and my Sinj, and Banovina and Slavonia, here, there's Drniša Mayor and that's Croatia, it's not just Zagreb Croatia. And when there was an earthquake, I then said that it was not, then here I said, that even after the earthquake in Zagreb that was catastrophic, much worse are the basic problems of politics towards these 2/3 Croatians. And of course, I'm calling on a number of people from this place who moved out because of politics, who don't even have the right to vote, you've been leading them to change the election law, they've been driven out, the most quality people, they've remained the same quality, we've been fighting, but they've had to run for their bread, they haven't had a party card.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28242	Thank you very much. The next replica of the respected representative of Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28243	Dear Representative Bulj, you mentioned you were a relationship to migrants and the EU. So here, I will quote.../incomprehensible/... all this that we are given in this report, the meetings of the EU Council, for the migrant crisis is said to be said as they believe that the EU must show courage in reaching agreement on a common policy of migration and asylum based on solidarity and accountability. What it means to state that the EU must show courage, so show courage and set something up. It is also clear that this is problematic, so a common policy of migration and asylum. Well, those countries aren't in the same situation. Angela Merkel called on millions of people to come to the EU, not our then prime minister or those people, the illegal migrants who are now stuck in the Bihac area, they do not want to stay in BiH or Croatia to go to more developed Western countries. So neither did they, in the same way, interfere with the situation in Syria, one France or Croatia So we see this inconsistency and inconsistency of European policy. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28244	Thank you. Mr. Bull's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28245	It is not even Croatian politics that is responsible for the migration crisis. It's the wrong policies that allowed those places to happen, whether Libya or I don't know Syria, whether or not Iraq was someone's interests. And now those who have created problems, who have essentially created their empires, built their cities, their countries on colonialism in these countries, they are giving us a lecture today, and not only that, but they have put wire around Croatia and Croatia has been left behind by the EU, we are left on the tail. Germany, pardon Slovenia, Hungary, Austria all said no in this uncontrollable way to enter more closed doors of politics. Angela Merkel has now closed the door to the migrants, and where have we been brought? Croatia left empty state without people with bad policies except for the beautiful praises of Andrej Plenkovic who here boast and not boast like this in front of the banks or... /Speakers speak at the same time./... [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28246	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28247	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, a few more things I'd like to add that I didn't get here and look back at some more thoughts that I didn't get during the presentation on behalf of the club representatives. So, I think it's a little unserious to give this much credit to one man. Andrej Plenkovic did not save Europe, nor did Andrej Plenkovic invent any topics, nor did he manage to force some topics which I personally regret. If he'd helped, if he'd been able to point it out, I couldn't get into it. I can actually go in and say that, unfortunately, those topics that mattered to us, I have a feeling at least as someone who deals with European affairs, which, directly 15 years and more, has failed. And when we talk about the laudas we got for the presidency, a lot of them are courteous, you won't say what your presidency was fiasco, and now thank you and goodbye, of course you won't. Look at the Maltese presidency most of it actually passed without a government. I'm not saying that ours was a total fiasco, so we've definitely had some successes, but I mean, I have to say, unfortunately, we haven't succeeded in what we could have done. We didn't capitalize it, we didn't create the added value we could. And that is why, in my view, 2020, if we are talking about European affairs of years of missed opportunities. We haven't been able to impose enough. Zagreb Summit is definitely one of the most important achievements, and I am afraid that by moving the focus from here or with two presidents who are not from the region and may not have such extensive knowledge of the region, the EU will be somewhere further. As I mentioned before the Portuguese Republic is a relationship with Africa because of their colonial history is much more important than the Western Balkans, which is logical. However, Africa is also an extremely important partner in the long term for the EU so that their experience can be significant there. But what we need to say and what we need to stress is that we still need to insist on this issue at all levels, from parliamentary to EU Council level in all formats, so this is a topic that we cannot release. For reasons I wouldn't go in now, we've heard them more than once, so I wouldn't waste my time on that. We also need to mention money, Croatia didn't get money, Croatia was insured, so it's out there somewhere in our account. If we're going to raise him, if we're going to justify that money with accounts, that's another thing now. So I am very looking forward to the first debate on the National Development Strategy, and then to continue to monitor the operational programming that you would like to be present in the Assembly, that only if we plan well, if we can program well, we can maximise the withdrawal of that money and not only to withdraw that money but to really spend it in projects that leave added value because I often talk about it. In fact, when you pass through Slavonia a little, when you see even some Commissioners and Commissioners who are more successful in withdrawing European money, you can often encounter projects that do not leave any long-term added value, such as renewed social homes, restored locker rooms of football clubs and the like. It is all nice and commendable that we understand each other, but whether people will stay in their village for that reason, whether they will have a job, a perspective, etc.? Well, unfortunately not. First of all, we need to concentrate on projects that will infrastructure, social and similar boost the economy because every good policy, whether demographic, was regional, that economy, and I think we can all agree on that. And that's why now the period ahead is crucial, and it's crucial because we have a chance to plan again how we're going to work in the next seven years. In what money will be channeled and how and how this is actually a much bigger challenge for me than how much money will be reserved for Croatia, because so far, even if we are talking about pre-accession funds, we have not shown ourselves in withdrawing money. Therefore, it is good that we are discussing these topics in HS and because of the Croatian public and the wider political and those interested, I look forward to the debates and I say best not to say the most challenging is just ahead of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28248	Thank you. We have two replicas, the right of a respected representative of Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28249	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Col. Hajduković, I agree absolutely with your comment that maybe the pat on the shoulder that the prime minister and ministers received from their co-workers at various meetings and it was strictly curtous because I believe you have all experienced in the conversation with various diplomats less flattering comments. But I don't think it's the end of the world to say that our presidency wasn't an amazing success. We're supposed to be self-critical. I think it can only strengthen us. The circumstances were what they were, we are a new member of the EU. I think it would be much more important to focus on the things that we can fix and how our next presidency can really be one successful presidency, than to fool ourselves about it, to say so wow, we were unrepeated, and we weren't actually. That's what's causing the damage.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28250	Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28251	Thank you. A fellow Glavasevic says anyone can make a mistake, but only a fool learns from his mistakes. I couldn't agree more with you. Of course, again and again, we are constantly left behind as an opposition to the ungrateful role that we must warn of the failures that were made. Yes, there were, but we're not saying it with a goal of demeaning something, we're saying it to improve something. Let's say the technical aspect of our presidency, the virtual session, etc. There was no match if you compared them to the German presidency. So, the Germans have to say in this respect they were no match for us. So, much, much, much, much more quality we did it and it's really one aspect that we can be proud of. Because obviously we have knowledge of how and we have capacities. Let's just say I wish the priorities were more focused, there were fewer. Because if you have limited capacities like we have with such a choice of priorities, the more targeted not the very broad ones, and a lot of them would certainly achieve more.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28252	The next replica of the esteemed representative, Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28253	Thank you very much, Vice President. You told counterpart Hajdukovic how important it is to have projects that will give added value when investing EU funding. I absolutely agree with that, but you are also aware that, in fact, after the approval of certain envelopes, they create operational programs that can then later develop projects and spend resources. So it's based on what someone had prepared before, and I think it's normal to use funds even if it's about rebuilding homes that shouldn't be underestimated because in small areas, maybe it's the only public facility where people can gather. But I think it is extremely important that we plan a new budget period wisely to really ensure that social, social, and municipal infrastructure that people need and that they really need to make a decision to stay in the village, not to move somewhere else.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28254	Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28255	Thank you, colleagues, for the replica. Each project has its own logic and social home, editing, so the beauty of the place and similar that may seem trivial to you indirectly affecting the prices of real estate etc. etc. I don't underestimate that part, but what you said about planning. That's what I'm talking about. It is very important to direct this money to burning projects, because talking about social homes and locker rooms is a little declassified if you ask me, if you consider that many settlements in Slavonia, even wider in Croatia, well in Slavonia thank God more or less as much as I know most, the great majority has electricity, has liquid water. So the sewers, not that people have to rely on their wells, their capacities, even though there's a lot more to it, sewers, etc. So maybe these are some projects that have a lot more impact on the quality of life, and we have to plan a lot more in that direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28256	Thank you very much. The next debate will be the respected representative of Tomislav Tomasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28257	So here I would like to begin by commending, as I commended both last year and the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Prime Ministers this practice, that we are discussing the reports of the Croatian Government from the Prime Minister at the meetings of the European Council in the Croatian Parliament. I think that is good, and that is because these are actually the views of the Croatian state, which the Government is chairing at the meetings of the European Council, I think it is important that they be also reported at least or discussed in the Croatian Parliament. I think it's a good practice and I absolutely welcome and commend her. I will focus on my exposure to one segment, and it is something that we as some green-left policy option are very interested in, and it is a fight against climate change because, as you know, even two meetings of the European Council have just been on the subject of combating climate change and discussed how the European Union will become climate neutral by 2050, which is absolutely necessary if we want to try to limit the increase of global temperature by less, i.e. up to 1.5 degrees Celsius. There, as you know, the European Parliament took a position that, even in today's parliamentary debate, I have heard from several MPs from different options of this agreement on 55% reduction by 2030 compared to the base 1990s climate emissions as too ambitious. I will repeat that the European Parliament had a position from 60% to 2030 to reach climate neutrality in 2050. Also numerous political groups in the European Parliament sought 65%. Because there's less and less time, regardless of the pandemic. As you know, the pandemic also teaches us to reconsider a particular concept of development that we have implemented so far. And in that sense, it is also an opportunity to transform truly our economies. And to that end, Green new deal or 550 billion euros is foreseen even at EU level in these few years from the multiannual financial framework and the Next generation of the EU Fund. So about 550 billion euros, i.e. 30% of these funds are just for investment in green transformation in the economy. So I have to admit that when I saw that Croatia joined the countries, it means Bulgaria, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Greece, Hungary, Malta, Poland, Romania and Slovakia, and sent letters to the European Commission and expressed concern about the fact that this draft Green Fund Act mentions it. does not mention in the evaluation of companies and their investments anymore, means that gas is no longer mentioned as transit fuel. So I understand that it is and I suppose it is from the perspective of the Croatian government that it is motivated by LNG investment or investment in LNG terminal. However, I say from the perspective of evaluation and investment recommendations, so I really don't see that problem, that it is necessary for Croatia to be involved in this debate in this way. Of course, in any case, what we need to avoid, of course, and I absolutely agree with that is that this situation is exploited by the green transformation of the economy to further increase the gap between the countries of the periphery compared to the countries of the centre within the EU. So we don't need some kind of green economic neocolonalism, which I agree with. However, on the other hand, the countries of Eastern and Southern Europe should certainly go as far as possible to transform themselves, to make their economies more self-sufficient, to create green jobs, to invest in technologies and to increase their efficiency, if you want productivity, while at the same time protecting the environment, and to reduce even local pollution and in the rest of the good part, and value, if we talk about decentralised renewable energy sources, remains more in the local community. So from that perspective, I would like to somehow see this as an opportunity by Croatia and in our interest to be this green transformation of the economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28258	Thank you. We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28259	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow Tomasevic, here I like to replicate when we are discussing the Green Plan or climate change from the point of view to show that green topics are not only on the left, that at European level they are also topics and centres, the right center, the European Pučka Party is very supportive and Croatia has given support to going more ambitious therefore to these 55%. The same positive signals from China, they want to be neutral by 2060, and tomorrow I believe that President-elect Biden will return America to the Paris Agreement. Therefore, we from HDZ see this as an opportunity, we will have projects, there will be transitions, and I think this is a great opportunity for the Republic of Croatia to use 37% of the recovery plan and 30% of cohesion for... Thank you. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28260	Thank you. Dear Representative Tomašević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28261	Well, the fact is that in the European Parliament, I say the European Parliament as a whole has taken a more ambitious position and there have been negotiations as well as the report with the European Council and with the German Chancellor, who has been particularly isolated in the report and there has been this compromise. Within the European Parliament itself, political groups are like, I have mentioned the European Green and United Left which seems to me to have had the most ambitious goals, of course it should and should be implemented, so I have also mentioned green and some political groups in this regard. But I'm saying that I don't think it can, I understand, and I want to avoid this situation to say it benefits some green economic neocolonalism, an even greater increase in differences within the EU's common market. However, I say that I think that this should be negotiated at the level of investments that would go towards the countries of Eastern and southern Europe and indeed see this opportunity not for protectionism but for the development of which we will benefit locally.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28262	Thank you. Replicu also has a respected representative, Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28263	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague, I think, I agree with you, that we should discuss European issues well in order to demystify some things in general and in public. But when we talk about the green plan and the green economy, it is ambitious, but when I say ambitious, I have talked a lot about it, not ambitious in the sense that we should not implement it and that we should not work on it, but ambitious in the sense that we do not know from our Croatian perspective what it means for our economy. The green economy is not necessarily a non-profit economy, it does not mean that, but we do not know how much money, we will have to invest to achieve the goals that are, at least from our perspective, quite ambitious because if the green economy for Croatia means a new wind farm Krš-Paden, then we have done nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28264	The answer of the respected representative Tomasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28265	So I'm saying, so I can agree that there we should and protect somehow let's say national interests in some way and the interests of our economy. After all, local economy and is a green economy, I do not believe in a green economy that is not at the same time and a localised economy and where the benefits remain in the local community because given all the greenhouse gas emissions from global trade, etc., given these challenges we had during the pandemic, we see what it means to have a localized economy as much as possible. However, I say that I think that this should be negotiated from the perspective of national interests at the level of redistribution of the burden of transition between the countries of the periphery and the countries of the centre. On the other hand, I also think that companies no matter where they come from, which are the largest contaminants should bear the financial cost of the largest of these transitions. On the other hand, we should also have different measures for citizens as regards energy poverty, etc. they don't feel that transition in a socially unfair way. We need to talk about all of this and see how it is implemented, and I can agree with that.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28266	Thank you very much. The next debate will be a respected representative of Nina Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28267	The Honorable Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs. I still can't believe my ears I've heard here in HS today, and I've heard the most recent statement in years. For those who were not there or who heard, today the Prime Minister of a democratic state said that the Prime Minister of another democratic state was wrong because he called a referendum, it was about Cameron and a referendum on Brexit in Great Britain. In that statement, Plenkovic saw a taste of the EU's biggest problem and why most citizens in the UK decided to come out, which is a democratic deficit. The ruling oligarchy has completely separated from the citizens and does not respect the will of the citizens. We have seen this about the referendum on the Lisbon Agreement, we have seen how the referendum in the Netherlands has passed on enlargement in Ukraine, we have seen how there has been a referendum on Brexit, and from that there is no lesson and there is no attempt to fix the situation, but the Noah's head is pushed into the carpet and it says that here is the wrong of Cameroon because it has allowed a little expression of the democratic will of the UK citizens. Another problem with the democratic deficit and alienated oligarchy can best be read with one discriminatory analysis. Reading this report on the meetings of the European Council, what gets into my eyes is one wooden bureaucratic meta language, it's one group of phrases that look like they've been taken over from some parody of party meetings in self-government socialism. Everything is a lot of challenges, the present is challenging, and the future needs to be sustainable, so we read phrases such as strengthening resilience, building a sustainable society with the preservation and protection of the environment, strengthening cohesion, so sustainable inclusive growth of course, so this is a time of strategic challenges, so in one place money is sought for convergence and new priorities, and then I read in one place how money is sought, quote "to recognise the challenges posed by the situation in relation to the island states". I repeat, "to recognise the challenges posed by the situation in relation to the island states" or when speaking about Africa, listen to this sentence and draw the conclusion of what you think about the meeting and people who can throw out in the conclusion of this sentence "because of the changing local environment and the numerous short- and long-term challenges facing both continents is stressed the importance of deepening and restoring our political relations and cooperation in all areas". Nothing about anything. What about specific questions and problems that have been touched or not touched? We heard something about the migrant crisis, as far as Croatia is concerned, it is unclear what our position was about possible sanctions for Turkey. Then, what does it mean to adopt rules on the system's role and system responsibilities of internet platforms with significant network effects? I would like today from the Prime Minister instead of the English, the British that he said something more since today it is very relevant because we see Twitter acting on that Kadiya and suing, Kadija is being judged not to wait for the word of the US judicial institutions but to judge private companies on freedom and the possibility of speech and communication. Then, do we have a digital transition strategy that says 20% of the recovery funds are foreseen here? According to this, where is our national 5G technology deployment plan to be delivered to the European Council by the end of the year? There is also talk about the conflict over Gorski Karabah which is the Croatian position? The European Council's conclusion is ridiculous, they say no one should interfere outside, and they need to be negotiated peacefully. Well, if I could do it alone, then we wouldn't be at war. This is similar to what they say in BiH when actors in BiH need to be agreed on, a political abuser and a political victim are to speak for themselves, we will be calmly watching from the side. And we end up with an ideological beating called the rule of law that, if something doesn't start to change, some other countries are driven out of the EU, and that's what we heard Prime Minister Plenkovic support the commitment of financial mechanisms to the so-called. the rule of law which determines what the rule of law is, who will measure it, and ultimately, it is that from Brussels, as once did in Moscow in the Soviet Union and brother states, decisions and values are imposed and anthropological experiments are carried out in other countries similar to or inadequate. And in the end around the crown of the crisis, we heard today and from Plenkovic that we are acting as drunk millionaires who are already buying vaccines around us, first BiH will be honored, and only 1% of the population in Croatia has been vaccinated, that the EU, which has 450 million people, has ordered 2.3 billion vaccines, more than five per capita, and already agreeing on mechanisms to sell or donate it to poorer countries. Here's so much about the seriousness of access to the crown crisis and the European Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28268	Thank you. Time. We have several replicas, distinguished representative Marko Pavić's first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28269	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Mr. Raspadic. Here's like the president of the Friendship Group in this House between the UK and Croatia, I have to deny you, the prime minister has not interfered with the policy of another country, condemning the prime minister. The Prime Minister, Mr Cameron, said in numerous interviews and in his remarks that he had made a mistake, and he made a mistake in the sense that he had put internal issues on the referendum. He went to internal affairs to resolve through referendums, then there are different cambridge analysts, public manipulation, manipulation of numbers happened, and today we have, I don't know if you're reading about the order of British fishermen who can't take their goods to France fail because of that. So President Plenkovic did not say anything that Prime Minister Cameron, or former prime minister, did not mention in numerous interviews.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28270	Mr. Pavić is very likely that in recent years I have stayed much more in the UK than you and had the opportunity to talk to many people from different layers and degrees of education. What I saw there all these years, that the dominant propaganda was against Brexit, they were intimidated by the story that the pound would crash, that it would remain hungry, that there would be no toilet paper. Of course none of that happened. So if there was propaganda, the great propaganda was against Brexit. Furthermore, there is no question that UK citizens do not have the right to decide for themselves, so it is not an internal issue either, if Cameron to his own harm and to his political face, and now he is out of the game he can say that he was wrong to put it in the referendum at all, there is no right for the Prime Minister of the other state to say that he was wrong because he gave his citizens to consume their sovereignty in this case even though it is a constitutional monarchy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28271	Next line of Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28272	Dear counterpart Rasludic, that the prime minister is here now and MP Pavic is humiliating the citizens of the UK because he would like to recommend to their country's prime minister not to sign what the people are through democratically, the referendum said they are coming out of the EU. Now imagine how much the Prime Minister is making an Englishman, he's a bigger Englishman than an Englishman. I am not surprised at the prime minister, distinguished counterpart Rasdic, you know that Prime Minister Plenkovic has spit on the referendum initiatives and democratic actions of citizens who have organised both on election law and on the decision-making issue of the Istanbul Convention. But to pretend to be a bigger Englishman than English Prime Minister Plenkovic it is amazing that you are mocking and sending a message to the English people that he is wrong, that the prime minister did not try to sign them, to leave the EU What the people have decided. [[Santer Invader: Time.]] It's a shame.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28273	Mr. Bulj, unlike what the Prime Minister has imputed to me today, I am not against the EU. I believe that the EU should be saved from estranged European oligarchy, that it has nothing to do with the ideals of fathers, founders of the EU today. They mentioned these names today, both Schuman and Adenauer and De Gasperi. In some form of political decadence, this has happened today to people who write, adopt as the conclusions of this phrase that I have read to you that remind you of Soviet, party meetings. It also led to the EU's security commissioner at the heart of Brussels's Brussels terrorist attack, rather than giving Europeans words of stability and security cry at a press conference, she says it is difficult for her. She speaks at that moment of her personal feelings. I've already mentioned it. Imagine Churchill whineing on the BBC the moment Hitler attacked England which would be and where Europe and the democratic world would be. So, if the problem of the democratic deficit is not resolved, EU disintegration will continue. And this was not discussed at the meetings of the European Council.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28274	The next replica, the distinguished representative of Zvonimir Troscott.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28275	Dear Mr. Rasdic, I have two questions for you. First of all, I think we've all just been broken up with this saying by Mr. Prime Minister, which he said was wrong by Mr. Prime Minister Cameron for calling the referendum because it's obviously about the deficit. However, what interests me is your opinion of self-criticalness and politicalism and EU politicians. Don't let God make a new Brexit happen we still don't know the real reasons why the UK came out of that EU family we live in today. So let's see some analysis. I don't know if you might have seen it, read it or if you have any knowledge of this self-criticity, so let's see where the EU is wrong too. And secondly, you only touched yourself, and we mentioned it today, what do you think Mr. Schuman would say, De Gasperi, Adenauer, to see today's rule of law situation that has become an ideological beating and where the Brussels administration, therefore imposes this ideologically right time. How do you think they'd react?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28276	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28277	The thing is, in history, and the political framework, everyone has some kind of natural, almost organic development. Of course, this is always the result of political will and political decisions. What I see is a fundamental problem has arisen at the moment when the European Economic Community is trying to grow into the EU. So something that is the economic financial community when overnight too quickly and most importantly without sufficient democratic consensus tries to turn into a political union. This was done too quickly and with insufficient confidence in the citizens of European countries. In my opinion, the Lisbon Agreement was not to be seen in such a way that it fell in the referendums to bypass and speed up the process. It is likely that joint economic flows over the years or decades would lead to the development of a partial common identity, so that according to global needs and that sense of political belonging, then institutionalising something as part of a political union could be realised. But this is done in a primitive, non-democratic semi-total way and the citizens feel it. That's why it happened to Brexit.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28278	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Davor Ivo Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28279	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Today we have a document before us that the Government must submit once a year under the Law on Relations between the Parliament and the Government on European Issues. However, we have already discussed most of this document in the Parliament and last year because since 2016, the prime minister has made a decision to come to Parliament after each European Council meeting, although it is not legally required to do so. So, besides this last council in December, we were already discussing others, and I would try not to repeat myself here, but perhaps to look at some ideas and some ideas that have been highlighted so far, such as the idea of maybe seeing the way in which Parliament would possibly have an opportunity to participate in the formulation of Croatian views before going to the European Council. I remember 2012. When this law was being debated, it was in Parliament's 7th session that was such an idea. I was part of it, too. A fellow coat of arms also thought then in this direction, but then the majority led by the SDP eventually concluded that it wants the shape we have today. In some ways this Prime Minister's decision to come to Parliament after each European Council and to discuss it seems to compensate for such a solution and indeed gives the Croatian Parliament the opportunity to participate in formulating our policy within European institutions. As far as this last Council was concerned, there was the most debate on the issue of enlargement and there were a lot of critical tones from different MPs, however, I think we must point out here that today's enlargement process cannot be seen in the same way as it was, for example, when countries entered the net after the fall of the Berlin Wall, i.e. that atmosphere which was at the time ruled they naturally entered later. Already with our entry it was much harder and had we not completed the negotiations in 2011 I am convinced that we would still be in the waiting room together with the countries of the Western Balkans. We must therefore see that what has been achieved during the Croatian Presidency, which is to find a compromise, was indeed a success in such conditions. A clear perspective is European for countries that are in our neighbourhood, but to be honest, this perspective is not going to happen so quickly. It's probably a perspective, but at some point in time. However, in the meantime it is important to include especially in those topics that are important for us and for our national security, and of course for those countries, to be involved. And therefore this decision on the last December European Council to help countries in our neighbourhood combating covids and with the donation of vaccine shows exactly the way Croatia can act, can be positive and constructive, can simply create within the EU a consensus to take a step more into engagement, to include the countries in our neighbourhood, which is in our interest. Because in order for us to be successful, we would be safer clearly that we need this fight against the covids and in our neighborhood, of course, especially in Bosnia and Herzegovina, as highlighted during the debate. In the end, I would conclude that I get the impression that mostly these discussions come down to whether it is good that we are in the EU or not. I would continue to repeat that the strategic decision was either to join the EU or to stay in the turbulent area of the Western Balkans and therefore I think that we have made a good decision by being a full member of the EU.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28280	We have four replicas. The first is Honorable Representative Bojan Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28281	Thank you, fellow Stier, for an interesting debate. Two points. As regards adoption, the joint adoption of positions to be represented on the European Council, I still think it would be better if this debate were more inclusive and that there is a framework in which MPs and MPs do not actually depend on the well-willedness of the Prime Minister whether or not to make any remarks. So it would be much better independent of what was decided in 2012, that this process was somehow defined and that the rules knew. In this way, much more imputements that better represent all of Croatia could also come to the European Council. And just for a little while, I think that as far as enlargement is concerned, it's important to stick to some values. Yes, there is, as you mentioned, a framework that we can help a little. But in the particular case I was talking about, I think there are other things in play about Macedonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28282	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28283	Thank you. Dear counterparts, there are mostly three models in the EU of co-operation between the executive parliament. What you mentioned is in Sweden. This calls for Parliament's great responsibility to enter deep into European themes, to be up-to-date, to make decisions in time. Because the executive power cannot wait for Parliament to make a decision. There is that other extreme, which is that Parliament is mainly not involved or simply gets some sort of notice later, but there is too much debate about it. In some ways, Croatia is finished with most of the countries as far as I know it in this middle road which is now enriched by the fact that it is illegal, but in practice it is really very often after each session of the European Council and thus gives an impasse for the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28284	The next replica, distinguished representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28285	Thank you very much. Comrade Stier, you spoke in that part of your speech about the established practice that after each meeting of the European Council comes the prime minister here and talks about what happened there and prepares the materials for it. Now the question after so many experiences is, we already have more than four years of such experience whether it has a purpose in view of the discussions that are being held here on such documents. Because we've seen how it ends today. Indeed, individuals do not hesitate to use such an opportunity to calculate themselves with both the Prime Minister and all present ministers, etc. To put themselves in the focus of all of this, and less important is what he's talking about. The only debate I've heard from my colleague Rasputic has also come down to whether this language is being discussed at the forum, let's tell the European Council the language of self-government socialism, or really what's going on there today. And what they would offer differently if they were in the same opportunity or situation to attend. And we listened to the lies of his colleague Glavasevic, who accused the prime minister of sending Jansa there to represent us, and he did not read a statement from the Office of the President of the Republic of Croatia which just ordered it and said it should be as a solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28286	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28287	My dear colleague, perhaps I'd like to start with this last finding. It seems to me, especially after we had this very bad experience of Slovenian blockades that we managed to solve, that today it is good that we have a good understanding between Croatia and Slovenia and that this level of trust has been gained that for example one country can represent another on the European Council, I do not see it personally but I see it as a relationship between the two states, but perhaps because of the archive and historical truth during the debate it was something that was incorrect, which is that in Slovenia it was the right government that introduced the blockade, it was the left government, though the fact is that the left government later raised that blockade, but here we need to be accurate and in how we are going to present these facts.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28288	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Representative Bojan Glavasevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28289	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. He's been injured. In 238, so I think it is inappropriate for colleagues to call themselves liars in a situation where I have clearly fenced myself in my debate and said that this is available from public sources. So, I didn't take a stand, I didn't tell a lie, and I don't think it's really okay for my colleague, Boric, to pass without you at least telling him it wasn't appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28290	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Marijana Petir.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28291	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr Stier, today we have indeed witnessed some debates that have brought us back to the past rather than turned us towards the future, because it is truly incomprehensible that after all the benefits that are clearly visible when we talk about Croatia's EU membership today, this move is being questioned over and over again. You have in some way underlined the importance of Croatian membership in the EU and from the aspect of security and impact on the region through the help of that region and its neighbours, and on the other hand as one of the defenders that we are at the longest border in this part of Europe when we talk about the need to protect the border. So I would like to hear your review here, given that you have great experience in foreign policy, how much do you think the current situation in BiH can affect security in the EU?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28292	Dear colleagues, thank you for that question. Indeed, the issue of security in BiH is also the issue of national security for the Republic of Croatia. Just look at the map to get to that conclusion, enough to go back to our history. We know that indeed whatever is happening in BiH is something that we cannot isolate or isolate and say that it will not and will not affect our national security, given that Croatia is a full member of the EU. It is therefore logical to conclude that the situation in BiH is very important for security then, and that the EU must act in this respect and, of course, Croatia to shape this European policy in order to achieve stability and Europeanisation is always on track, of course, by those principles which highlight equality and all peoples in BiH.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28293	Next replica, the esteemed representative Ivan Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28294	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Representative Stier, and I will look again at the BiH issue. I find it interesting how they make fun of the so-called. Disposing of vaccine representatives of the option coming out of HS when voting on the Declaration on the position of Croats in BiH and the European route of BiH, when questioning why Croatia has provided 43 million kuna for KBC in Mostar as a fight against the Covid-19 epidemic, therefore this is an essential ignorance of Covid-19 as a disease and in fact strengthening the preparedness and empowerment of the public health system is something that Croatia has a multitude of obligations towards Croats living in BiH.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28295	Thank you, colleague, for that question. Indeed, if you look even selfishly at the security of the people of the Republic of Croatia, the issue of success in the fight against covids in neighbouring BiH is very important, given that we share more than 1000km of borders in view of interaction, without talking about all these other aspects that you mentioned. I don't think there's room for any ridicule, but simply for serious politics. I would, of course, recommend something here if you would allow me, colleagues, to see what Frankfurter Allgameine Zeitung wrote about BiH, a very good analytical article that shows exactly what are the key problems in which the EU can act positively and constructively, and which are indeed on the trail of Croatia's policy towards BiH.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28296	Time, thank you. Next individual debate, distinguished representative Grozdana Peric. She's gone, she's losing her right. The next debate, an individual debate is the distinguished representative Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28297	Yeah, thanks. Good afternoon, everyone, here's something already said about this, it would expand the subject a little bit, so on the single market and industrial policies and digitisation, which is listed in this report, which is one of the important topics. Certainly a single market, innovation and digitisation are areas where EU action has this significant added value. Croatia is saying the same thing here means it advocates such a type of problem, so solving the problem. But two things are important here that I would mention, first of all, the issue of the single market and, in general, ensuring convergence and cohesion that are often mentioned in this report, means achieving the development of those most developed countries is somehow blocked and will always be blocked by the EU structure itself. It means that the EU would be a solidarity community minimum would be if it became a fiscal union. The fiscal union would mean a joint collection of taxes while the common budget would finance common public policies aimed at producing for the needs of this transformation means according to the green democratically planned co-operation and solidarity economy. Thus, this inequality, which is hardly visible, will be able to be abolished unless the richer countries of the region expose the import of developing regions. So regardless of the restrictions these less developed countries should impose on their more competitive exports and also to overcome these inequalities, it would therefore be necessary to ensure the transfer of innovative technologies that the rich countries maintain at the top. This can hardly happen in an EU like this, and our diplomacy does not work in any way. What is good, for example, from this council in this report should certainly be stressed that the European Council will again address the issues of the single market, industrial policy and digitalisation, and that it will also assess the state of play on the important issue of taxation of the digital economy in this context. It's one of the things that we should consider here and discuss, what it's all about. So, in short, because of the need for a fairer taxation of digital corporations, the European Commission prepared one proposal for a directive in 2018, it is a common system of taxes on digital services taxing revenues from providing certain digital services. Not to mention, what are all the services from advertising services to data collection services? What is important here is that this proposal for a directive is blocked by those countries which, therefore, had mostly low taxes and which would not be suited to the high meaning of these rich digital giants taxing some form of tax. However, some members have individually introduced that tax on digital services. I note that yesterday, the Workers' Front also submitted a proposal for a Digital Service Tax Act, according to this draft directive, where only the biggest ones would be taxed, of course. This is not a tax that goes to small and developmental digital companies but only applies to companies with an annual income of more than 5.6 billion kuna at global level and annual revenues from taxable digital services with a source in Croatia of only 1.1 million kuna. This is a 7% tax rate model for some European countries that have implemented this. It means some form of digital, tax on these digital corporations that are growing, which have also grown in the Covid crisis. So the crisis didn't affect them at all. Let's say in the second quarter of 2020. Amazon recorded a 40% growth in income compared to the same period in 2019, the growth in Amazon and Facebook profits approached about 100%, while Netflix even had a 166% increase and a profit. So at a time when 40 million workers in the United States went out of work, for example, the property of the three richest in the world of Jeff Bezos, Mark Zuckerberg and Bill Gates increased by $100 billion, so we see something here that could be useful for our legislation. In any case, with long forms Anyway, this is something we can take a positive look at. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28298	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Marko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28299	Dear Vice-President of the Assembly, ministers, colleagues and colleagues may miss my colleague Bulj this one, but I believe that the issue of Britain will be resolved in a debate in Brexit almost as soon as it has been on the subject of the same meetings at the top of the last, recent weeks. In his individual debate, he would like to look a little more closely at the multiannual financial framework, climate change and precisely the EU policy that Croatia has participated in. Once again, EUR 24.2 billion allocated, they are divided into several components. On the one hand, we have a standard EU budget of EUR 12.7 billion. What is good to know, and precisely for the sake of absorption, increased absorption of EU funds in 2017, 2018, during this government we crossed the average level, for some small plants like Zrinka, for some small fourth decimals, 60% of the EU's development average and therefore we needed 1.8 billion euros less. We met with these positions when the European Commission came up with a multi-annual financial framework in 2018. A few years after that, Croatia not only fought these additional 1.8 billion, we fought for Article 65, so on. CPR regulators who clearly say that the countries they have used only one financial envelope, which is the only Croatia has an additional 300 and we have still exceeded 400 million for cohesion and 100 million for agriculture. So we showed what negotiations mean, which means a high-quality team, which means an initiative led by the minister, we discussed it every week, and we came up with results. When we make a schedule where that money goes. So of the 12.7 billion euros in the multiannual financial framework, as the prime minister pointed out, 8 billion go for cohesion, 2.32 billion for direct payments in agriculture and slightly less for two billion euros for rural development. And we remember that already from this perspective, we built over 200 kindergartens from that rural development component in less developed municipalities. Therefore, this budget was to be fought for. We know how to use it. There were some criticisms about absorption, use. Now we're at 108% of the contract and over 40% of the payment of the funds, and we still have three years of time. It was there when the Council was in the seventh month, when the prime minister said we fought for 24.2 billion euros then there were criticisms yes, but that will not happen. What if Hungary and Poland don't agree to compromise? We also see in today's debate that we suddenly have a debate about whether we are on the side of Hungary and Poland or whether we are on the side of other countries which is completely wrongly divided. The prime minister made it clear that Croatia has no problem with the rule of law, that we want the rule of law to be in the use of European funds. But we also understood certain concerns from Hungary and Poland that were removed without the principle of the rule of law in European funds. 37% or the National Recovery Programme and 30% of the multiannual financial framework will go for climate change. There was also a question in the debate whether we had enough quality projects? We will. I constantly like to point out that we have run as a country in Battery lines or in the IPSA project of Mr. Rimce 100 million euros in investment in the World of Sunday, in the campus. That also many projects that concern technology from... The new will be available to us and I believe that with this budget we have shown that Croatia can, it knows, have an initiative and that it can be an equal player in Brussels and in the European space. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28300	We have a few replicas. First is Honorable Representative Davor Ivo Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28301	Comrade Pavić, we are constantly hearing criticism that even in this instrument of Europe, the next generation where the Commission is in charge on behalf of the European Union, and then Croatia gets one very important part of being a grant, that we are actually going to have to pay it back anyway, so that we cannot stress it. However, how much different would it be if Croatia were not in the EU, or if there were no of this instrument and it had to be in debt, at what interest, what would it be instead of having the best possible credit rating now, thanks to the European Commission's debt on behalf of the entire EU, and then it could also use the best credit rating, much better than what we would have individually, how much that difference would be. I don't think you're going to tell me exactly the number right now, but that the argument that our citizens would understand what it would be like if we weren't in the EU and we didn't have these opportunities.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28302	Thank you very much for asking. Well, you just said it right. For these, the 750 billion-euro Recovery Fund will be entrusted to the European Commission, which has a triple rating but will be proportionate to development. In other words, Croatian citizens will return a small part of it at extremely low interest. If we weren't in the European Union, we'd have dropped our credit rating, we couldn't be in debt. Let's just see if Montenegro had to sell its own fleet. We have invested a billion kuna in Croatia Airlines which has also enabled us to bring in equipment from China, which is funded by EU funds. So, exactly the protection of our national sovereignty goes through that we're part of the club, that we have all the obligations but the rights of the club that allow us to save 600,000 jobs. We could never afford to invest 8 billion kunas in the private sector, jobs and practically that unemployment today may be a few thousand jobs more than before the crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28303	The next replica is the esteemed representative Branko Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28304	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Pavić, you were talking about the multiannual financial framework. I think it is always and constantly necessary to highlight what has been achieved that we have been given more favourable implementation and implementation of these funds than the rules of co-financing, pre-financing and M+3 rules that allow us to use all the money after three years of time, with the of course amount of 24.2 billion euros secured over the next seven years. Only from the recovery and resilience mechanism has 6 billion euros of grants, which is 11% of GDP that no EU country has received and is enabled. The average we have to say is only 3.7% and the Republic of Croatia will get 11%, with an advance of 13%.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28305	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28306	Thank you very much. Well, you're right. When we started, not only was Croatia reduced by 1.8 billion euros in the first so-called. ... Box, i.e. The negotiating box has already been a proposal to double co-financing, which would be an additional blow to the budget especially on our local self-government units that they must give 30% of their own co-financing funds. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Rarely anyone who could endure this and that it is worth rule M+2 that only two years can be used after a year's passing. Those were the initial points of view. Croatia was very active among friends of cohesion. Personally, I was with the prime minister in Portugal at a meeting of 17 prime ministers, where we clearly articulated this position and managed, together with the other 16 members, to fight not only to get extra funding through the WFO, but to return rule M+3 and return to co-financing of 15%. That's how we protect our interests and our users.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28307	The next replica, distinguished representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28308	Thank you very much. Comrade Pavić, you have been talking about the multi-annual financial framework and you are talking about billions of EUR and how this happened, and we have clubs that talk about zero cents, some benefits that we have since we join the EU, and that is equal to what you are today in the debate and in the public space. In this public media probably here even deserves more attention than 24 billion. We've been fighting it and we've been dealing with it for five years. And here's the next 3 certainly, but it's hard to explain to these people how hard it is to realize. We inherited 2015. 6% of the contracted funds, after 3 years spent, almost 3.g. We had a good situation. Today we're over 100% of the deal and we have moments where we're talking about how much we've realized completely, and we have M+3 to solve it to the end in this previous one, it's waiting for us in the next. What I mean is, we heard from a colleague that it is more important public service and what he says is who hired the Slovenian prime minister than the president's office and his statement that is true. So we fight between truth and falsehood, and when you tell them they're telling the truth, they say we're telling the truth, and you're not talking.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28309	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28310	Thank you very much. Comrade Boric, you're absolutely right, but that's exactly why it's up to us to repeat the truth all the time. Yes, we have fought for such a budget, I have already described circumstances that were not favourable to us because -1.8 billion euros, unfavourable conditions, unfavourable co-financing rates, we have all managed to win. For example, the Pelješki bridge with access roads, how much about 500 million euros, a permanent monument to the first financial perspective, or the first budget, I believe that such monuments will be much more in the second, in the second budget period. Croatia has shown that it knows how to use the funds when we took over 9% of the contract and 1% of the use, the blockade of the European Social Fund caused by the Minister then Mrsic, which is not known, we have unblocked it, we respect... We also saw this example, and we believe that we will make good use of the funds and communicate them to Croatian citizens. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28311	Time. The next replica is the distinguished representative Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28312	I'm always saying it's very nice to listen to you. Is everything sound very positive. But to put these huge billions into some relationships, Croatia has therefore had a little more than 11 billion in the last 7-year period when agricultural subsidies are added. When we talk about these billions, it is felt less than the total Croatian investment in the private and public sectors in just one pre-crisis year. Now that's a higher amount, we have to say, so 22 billion euros, but that's money we can't talk to about some development policies. Also when we talk about borrowing, of course, that sounds nice, we will now be able to borrow well, the EU sees this less restrictively than before the crown, but in the perspective, we will return to neoliberal restrictions, austerity measures as conditions for further refinancing of public debt, but also for placements through the Recovery Fund and the EU budget. These neoliberal measures will surely go to workloads.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28313	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28314	Well, colleague Peovic, I know that you are in opposition and that you must criticise, that you must this one, that everything is not positive. But I'm sorry that we've been able to make some things come true that really thank you for praising them and pointing them out. I would disagree with you, these funds that are there are developmental, allow for construction of railways, hospitals, airports, Pelješac Bridge, Split Airport, Dubrovnik Airport, Slavonia Project, and certainly would point out, you will certainly have nothing to say that 6000 women who would never find a job over 50 years, secondary education or not precisely for the sake of these European funds have found a job in rural areas of Croatia. I doubt you've got anything that's problematic, that's bad and that this government isn't on the side of the workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28315	Next individual debate, distinguished representative Zdravka Busic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28316	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Assembly, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Assistant Minister. Here I would in this individual, individual debate kind of emphasize what we've done about enlargement and about our neighborhood. So I would say that the most important event in the period in question was certainly our Croatian Presidency of the EU Council, which took place under really difficult circumstances in the pandemic of the coronary virus. Despite these difficulties, I think Croatia has managed to prove itself to be a responsible member of high operational and diplomatic capacities, which is a commendation of the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, able to adapt to all the challenges. We have also received the recognitions of other members and the commendation of the European Commission and its President, Ursula von der Leyen. The main event of the presidency was certainly the 27-member EU and 6-nation summit in Southeast Europe. Croatia has already announced, in its preparation of the Presidency programme, that it will stand up for effective or to quote the Presidency programme, a credible policy to extend the principles of its own achievements and fair conditionality, a policy that effectively promotes reform processes and guarantees the improvement and stability of Southeast Europe has completed a quote. That direction was also confirmed by a Zagreb summit that sent an important message on the European perspective of countries in the region and their reform progress. We can especially be pleased that during our presidency, the decision to open negotiations with Northern Macedonia and Albania has matured, and that has been said by counterpart Petir a little more extensively. In the chairmanship programme, just as throughout the past and this term of office, Croatia as an unquestionable condition for the progress of candidate countries and potential candidates for membership highlights and overcoming the legacy of the past, true reconciliation and the resolution of all outstanding issues necessary for the future and relations in the region itself. Croatia is particularly committed to the European perspective of Bosnia and Herzegovina, namely its progress towards candidate status. But also here, we insist on reform processes which are key among other things and for the sake of the well-being of our countrymen in BiH who unfortunately still deny collective rights, above all, the right to choose their own representatives in state authorities. And that's what the foreign minister is very much working on, and a lot of it is done by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and thank you for that. That the government of the Republic of Croatia will not get tired when it comes to these objectives we also showed during the Croatian Presidency of the EU Council. On 18 June, a virtual meeting was held at the top of the EU's leaders and 6 Eastern Partnership countries of Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Georgia, Libya and Ukraine to build and strengthen the EU's partnership relations with this part of Europe. In addition to these facts and other achievements discussed by my colleagues, I think we can very well be satisfied with the government's results during this period in question and conclude that Croatia as the youngest member of the EU only 6 and a half years after accession to this presidency, which in many ways was absolutely unprecedented in the history of the EU, has managed to present itself in its best light. That is why I will be very pleased to support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28317	Two replicas. The first is Honorable Representative Bojan Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28318	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, thank you for your discussion. My question is what is your position on Bulgaria's blockade of negotiations with Northern Macedonia. In fact, we have an awkward situation when we are trying to evaluate the success of Croatia and our chairmanship when it comes to enlargement. So, we don't have to waste time on that, we'll agree that there are objective problems in this, there are objective concerns of some member states. I mean, the Bulgarian attitude isn't since yesterday, he's famous. So, if we are, what's bothering me in this story? What was our success if something that we knew would appear as a problem after the French blockade appeared this one. Was the life span of our success simply too short? I mean, let's try and discuss this son of an ira et studio if you understand me. I'm just trying to say, let's have a dialogue about it without there being an increase in tones. If you understand me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28319	Answer. Do you have an answer? No, I don't. Next replica, the esteemed representative Davor Ivo Stier. And I'm sorry. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28320	Excuse me. Thank you very much for this, but I have to tell you that you've been saying everything in the condicional what if, what but. I'm as familiar with all this as you are with the way Bulgaria reacted, of course. But I also don't believe it's going to stay that way because dialogue exists. In addition, when all of these processes are about Macedonia, that is, as far as Northern Macedonia is concerned, we are now absolutely all familiar. I don't think we need each other right now, and I'm not prone to high tones, I'm inclined to dialogue. I'm here. We can discuss it. We don't have enough time to think about it. I am personally convinced that this will still be discussed and that we will come to a positive shift in this direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28321	The next replica is Honorable Representative Davor Ivo Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28322	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues Bušić, on the trail of this same dialogue and the same topic, there is a valid idea that when a smaller country blocks another country, it would not actually be able to do so without at least quietly supporting a larger country. And what seems important to me here is that we cannot measure it in terms of the success or failure of the Croatian Presidency, but perhaps a better understanding of the context in which enlargement is today. Obviously, this will not happen tomorrow or very quickly, but this perspective will eventually come true but in another future. What's important to Croatia seems to me, so I don't know if you agree that's my question, that it's important for Croatia to stay that perspective and that, for our national security, it should be included as much as possible in our neighbourhood as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28323	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28324	Thank you very much fellow Stier and to agree with you and I think it is good to, in one hand and it is good to open it to see and all the differences and to work on these differences and to see how and how best to reach that agreement. Of course it will never be all going the way they imagined or those who, who started the debate and the process. The process is of course, the process one ends, the other begins. So I really hope that this, that it's even good that it came because what this fellow Glavasevic is, we all know what he's always saying. Not only between Bulgaria and Northern Macedonia, but also other neighbours. So it is good to open it on one hand, in one hand, and I think that Croatia is also good to open it during Croatia and I think that Croatia has somehow succeeded in explaining it to itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28325	The next replica, distinguished representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28326	Thank you very much. Your colleagues Busic spoke in his debate about Croatia's EU presidency in the past six months last year, which is also an integral part of these reports, and we remember that period when we were constantly saying that we were bad at it regardless of the same time as today's pandemics of the coronary virus and that it was one of the most important topics in the pre-election campaign before the parliamentary elections, etc., we were largely bad at all. After us came another German state, whether we are now able to assess, on the basis of the information available, the country's presidency with the EU and what we as ordinary citizens who are not engaged in diplomacy, foreign affairs, etc., we can learn from that presidency that we have said to our own that we have been extremely poor and that we have been marked by some of our discussions here in parliament. What's ours is always wrong, bad and wrong, which is someone else's is always better and what I know is everything else great etc. Can you tell us what we have experienced these past six months given this report under the chairmanship of another country? And not the Republic [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28327	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28328	Thank you, thank you very much, colleague Boris, I, if I can speak on behalf of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or the entire time of the EU Presidency, I was the Secretary of State for Political Affairs at the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs and I know how and how we worked and worked and I can tell you that, that, that we really got now is personal to me, I don't like to brag, but I must commend Croatia, I must commend the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and indeed we have received a lot of colleagues and it wasn't just a curator's commendation, indeed, and finally, if I am not mistaken, Hajdukovic pointed out that we actually did it technically. And why, then, why don't we just say that it's really done in a good way. So allow Croatia to be good and perfect in certain jobs. Well, I think it's commendable. and pleasure [[Intruder: Time.]] to you and to us. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28329	Thank you. Next individual debate, distinguished representative Eric Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28330	Dear Vice President, respected colleagues and colleagues, so what we are discussing today is a report set out in a law on co-operation between the government and the parliament, not the Prime Minister, so that is a legal obligation. And it is good that so as to be able to discuss the report, to read it, to point to those facts that are missing or unfortunately not talked about in the European Council, or to which little has been said. Here I see that the topic of enlargement has dominated, it is good that we are discussing it because, even so, if the Prime Minister wants to hear us, he will try to influence his friend Jean Michel to discuss it more, however, more. This is, therefore, I think it has its own purpose, but just like when it came to the EU Presidency and when we had a report that was among those first discussions, I supported it on the Committee on European Affairs, when I saw the debate going on, that I was terribly disappointed in certain rhetoric of my colleagues, not everyone, and not just members of one party, but unfortunately it is. So, we have the European Council, we are a full member of the EU, the heads of state meet, meet at least 4 times a year to discuss some things that they may even have from or have some exceptional political weight towards the European Commission, which is executive power, no. Whether or not we have succeeded more or less, for some we could do more than what is written, but also what is missing. If you're going to take the search engine in the report then you'll see that the word enlargement isn't about it, it's about relations with Africa, it's about bilateral, bilateral problems that Turkey and Greece have around the continental belt, that's it. About the financial framework, however, a very important topic she prevailed as well as Covid in the whole story, which is normal as a common denominator, a little less of the part that is related to refugees and then we can discuss it a lot, enough, about Brexit was also very much talked about, whether it was a perfect agreement or not, because those of us who did not participate in the negotiations, who did not participate in somewhere and closed meetings without further ado, because man created certain impressions and conclusions based on the information available. And that's when we have some serious and reasoned debate then we call for certain facts, but if I were to listen patiently to my colleagues in the debate if I was to play it out, even though I said I wasn't, but for these very reasons why, after all, my colleague Glavasevic said what was missing and what we think everyone thinks is missing just this part of the extension element, but then I would play it out, so I'll also be a rhetorict even though I don't like it, so I'll say one thing. When is the financial framework closed, when is it closed? It was closed at the last meeting in December 10.11. when Mr Janša represented Croatia. Then whose financial framework it is, you see, so it's not good to say what you just said. And now I'm going to give myself a heads-up, vice president, and I'm closing the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28331	We have one replica, distinguished representative Davor Ivo Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28332	As far as the deal is concerned, Coli Fabianic was reached much earlier during the summer, which is the fact that in this last one only solved these objections by Poland and Hungary or reached a new consensus on it. But my question was this, you mentioned how well it was to open the debate on enlargement that would help the prime minister to stand up for it and at council meetings, but I would also like to ask you who the president of the Committee on Interparliamentary Co-operation will be your vision of the role of our assembly, parliamentary diplomacy in contact with other parliaments, especially those who are more skeptical of some countries that are on their way to the EU today or who have some prejudice over the issue.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28333	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28334	I mean, we have the same attitudes about this, that's for sure, I just wanted to show as an example of how something can be badly interpreted if you talk superficially, and if you're only baffled by the subject. Yes, I think that interparliamentary co-operation just by opening up certain topics with certain countries can certainly help what we're up to and in this assembly, but here's the pandemic unfortunately the committees are formed, we've got here to take the opportunity to report, we've got a lot of embassies and letters that and congratulations on new appointments and unfortunately for the pandemic I think we all can't wait to get started, to start working seriously, I hope as soon as possible. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28335	Okay, final debate of the Club of Representatives of the Most, MP Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28336	Here, on behalf of the club at the end of the debate on last year's report on the European Council, we essentially got a lot of information from the prime minister, a lot of his views, so it is also correct to state the position that he would suggest to the UK. The United Kingdom has shown to their prime minister that it does not support the referendums, nor the referendum decisions, so that it is correct from Prime Minister Plenkovic in fact he showed this in his previous assembly when the referendum was collected signatures of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia where the signatures for amendments to the electoral law were collected, where it was literally spat on people who collected these signatures and who collected it means somewhere around 400,000 signatures, means it has proved to be a leader like Fuhrer, Duche, I do not know what I know what he would want to be, and not democratically what is not good, while the Prime Minister of the Republic advises the United Kingdom to behave undemocraticly and not respect the will of the majority then on Brexit. leaving the EU and when I see the multiannual financial framework mentioned in 2020, the fact that Croatia is at the bottom of its withdrawal from the EU in this financial framework by the end of 2020, so that these funds, which the prime minister mentions, are essentially funds as a sparrow on the branch. So we should be preparing a unit of local self-government to all those entrepreneurs, all the institutions that have to attract those funds so that it won't be again that we're at the bottom after withdrawing funds from the EU because we need to know that our people from the diaspora yearly who send them because of the policies that have gone away, I often mention that 6% of GDP is from our people from abroad who send money through signs, so that one Peljeka bridge of those people that we undermined that create additional values in other countries could be made annually. So demographic policy in the Republic of Croatia is not good, although we have within the EU. The commission and vice president for demography that does not deal well with this business and does not work in the interest of the Republic of Croatia, would see the return of those people who are one huge potential, is for us Croats in the diaspora who went mainly because of the bad policies of some in the second generation, it is now that they have left that system, but it simply turns out that we as a target have emptied 2/3 of Croatian food. When we talk about security, I don't see that kind of security in the Republic of Croatia on the issue here's how I talked about the migrant crisis. We know that the Marrakech Agreement was accepted without debate in the Croatian Parliament while in the Bundestag, despite the fact that Angela Merkel was in favour of accepting the Marrakech compact, the Agreement, in the Croatian Parliament was not allowed to discuss this very important topic and when the Minister of Interior seemed to me as a representative of Croatia to accept the agreement and the migrant crisis the triba is seriously taken seriously because we are entering illegal migrants. And no one has tested them when we mention covid. I did not get the information whether these migrants who are going illegally, illegally across the border, who are not channeled, and we also have the possibility of using the army on Croatian borders to protect these borders and help the logistics police. We don't even use that instrument. I'm not saying we have to be the ones shooting at migrants, God forbid. But those who would have to channel and edit this whole process of getting migrants into the way it was and there was a different time, during Milanovic's government, were somehow channeled that process. Today they come in wherever they think of it from the Dalmatian fire, the mountain cotter, and of course there are people who were in armies like ISIL and things like that and we don't control it. We've got a lot of damage to the people in that area. And security in the Republic of Croatia, especially security what is most important and the biggest mistrust, is mistrust in the judiciary. That's five key things. I told the judiciary, the judiciary, the justice system unsettled. And people have no confidence and do not come to invest in the Republic of Croatia exclusively because of this. Corruption and the judiciary are number one, and these things that the prime minister has stated have shown their true face, not to admit or even in the United Kingdom the will of the majority shown in a referendum around the Brexit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28337	The next final debate on behalf of SDP MP Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28338	Thank you, Vice President. So when we talk about the report together, this is about the report not only from the last meeting that we did not discuss in the Croatian Parliament, but all year round. That really was a year of challenge. One year before not only Croatia, but before all of Europe, she put a whole series of challenges that we are dealing with even now. But there's an old saying that might already be corny, because it's very much used in public space that the Chinese have the same word for crisis and opportunity. So every crisis is an opportunity and an opportunity has been this Presidency of the Council of the European Union, that after we sum up all this together, and if, as the speakers before me have reminded us of this, we have discussed it at a special point in some mistakes, we are going further and that the next presidency when it comes to us is even better and let us hope without such unexpected challenges. What needs to be highlighted in the end was the words before, so the money provided by European funds or so-called European money for Croatia is still a sparrow on the branch, or we need to organize well and work so that the money can be withdrawn, realised, invested in something that would ultimately be useful for Croatia and its citizens. We need a National Development Strategy to discuss very soon. I think the Committee on Regional Development and EU funds as a parent working body will be discussing it this week. And I think it's also going to be an opportunity to discuss which direction we want to develop. And only then after the adoption of the National Development Strategy comes the most important part of programming, and there should be as much involvement as possible, the wider the interested public, especially the one whose needs are programmed to get one quality feedback and so they can have the best feedback on how to invest in some things. Because if we want to help entrepreneurs, it is best to ask entrepreneurs themselves what kind of help they need, etc. etc. I'm going to point out once again that the region is the so-called region. The Western Balkans of our utmost importance and it is commendable, absolutely and logical on some side, if you ask me that the emphasis, one of the highlights of our presidency, was on the region. That Zagreb has received certain results and that is why Northern Macedonia and Albania continue the EU accession process. What may be for, with which we cannot be so happy that it is worrying is certainly a situation in BiH that has no significant shifts on the way to the EU. But that's something where we should offer and actively offer and do it, I know our help to get as close as possible. After all, it is also Croatian interest for Bosnia and Herzegovina to be a member of the EU as well as for all other Western Balkan countries, learning from history once again stability in the region is ours and should be our top priority. And in the end, I would only say once more about climate change, the Green Trade or the Green Plan, about climate neutral economy. This will certainly pose a major challenge that we will talk about much more this year, and I believe in a conference on the future of the EU, which will deal with institutional framework work, i.e. the existential skeleton of the EU. But what I would like to hear the answers to, and I haven't heard them yet, if there are any projections of what this means for the Croatian economy, how much it will cost us potentially, which are possible benefiti, and it would also be interesting to hear what the consequences of the Croatian accession to the euro area and the Schengen area of this pandemic are possible. So there must have been some economic movements that are not so favourable when we talk about the euro zone, and the question is what will happen to Schengen. Because some of the announcements we have now seen that Schengen, the current Schengen area should be consolidated, etc. So it will certainly be topics that will occupy us in the future. I welcome the absolute fact that we are discussing the meetings of the European Council in the Croatian Parliament. I also welcome the fact that we have made a decision on the system of own resources in the Croatian Parliament and I think that the inclusion of the Croatian Assembly in European issues can only get good results and give additional legitimacy to the Government, but also to Croatian efforts to better position Croatia in the Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28339	The next final debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, the distinguished representative Marko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28340	Dear President-in-Office of the Parliament, ministers, assistants, colleagues and colleagues. I'd like to see here in this final address on this subject just to sum up. Somehow all afternoon and this evening we used to sum up the value of EU membership. I think we've shown it. When we talk about the first six months, that is, the presidency of the Croatian Council of the EU only if we put the success of 24.2 billion euros secured. So once again... 1.8 billion euros in the multiannual financial framework. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have secured the co-financing rate together with the countries of cohesion and also rule M+3. Only if we took that as a result, if we were to move forward, would we have secured the Zagreb Summit's initiative at the top of the European future in the Western Balkans would it be difficult for the Western Balkans to have, at least in this sense, the candidate country, that just for the sake of a meeting of the Zagreb summit of a country that had certain reserves had given up and found a compromise and opened negotiations both to Northern Macedonia and Albania. And the third component that we have just done with the activities of the Croatian team in Brussels has ensured the maximum flexibility of European funds for use in combating the covida-19 pandemic in a never short legislative procedure in two weeks, so-called "covida-19". CRI plus and Corona's response initiative package one and two we made sure that the funds we still have left in the European funds are redistributed, we give billions of kuna to our entrepreneurs for crafts, we provide 4000 kuna per employee through the Ministry of Labour and the Employment and all equipment we buy to European funds from China. If only there were three successes, here I would be ministers, and there were a lot more of them in each resistor when we were looking at individual philanthropists. Thus, the attitude that we often hear the main thing is that we speak outside, that is, in Brussels we say that we are not good at anything. Let's be objective. I agree that there may have been another component of visibility and public events missing. I'm sorry. I was personally thinking of closing the presidency just by exhibiting in Brussels where they would present the concept of one as an electric car, the fastest electric car. We have prepared everything, but here for the covid we have failed or for the departure of 50 Croatian scientists to Cambridge, on a study trip where they will learn entrepreneurship. Such events during the Croatian Presidency, unfortunately we did not have, and I hope that in 14 years, when we will have a chance again that there will be less crisis and that we will succeed. But to sum up once again, just that 24.2 billion euros were guaranteed we should have gotten much less, that we had secured a European perspective for the Western Balkans and countries. If it hadn't been for us, we wouldn't have had it anymore, because Europe got tired and many countries began to question the way of the negotiations. Here, for a new methodology, we found a compromise with them. And if we've secured funds to fight the covid without strong borrowings and without the collapse of credit ratings, I consider the presidency a success. When we look at the second half of the year of climate change that we have remained in spite of all these challenges and crises that the EU has endured and remained a leader in the fight against climate change, both the US and China have now joined the process, it has shown that the green plan should have been set in motion. And when we still look at the same thing, Europe expressed great solidarity for the 683m-euro earthquakes in the account a few weeks ago. I can therefore conclude that the year of the presidency was a success. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28341	The next final debate on behalf of the Green Left bloc's Club of Representatives, the distinguished representative Bojan Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28342	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm glad this debate has passed in a constructive tone. Most of the time, only with a slight intrusion of the prime minister's "poor of love" to simplify the metaphor. If there's a lesson we can learn, then it's a lesson about the importance of criticism and self-criticity. The old pain of Croatian politics is a prison for remarks whether they are spoken harshly or politely. The role of the opposition is not to praise the government. We liked the exact opposite role of pointing out everything we thought was wrong. I don't think there's a well-organised and politically and operational presidency going without fault. In this regard, I hope that the minister has been hunting notes and that after leaving his or her successors or heirs in the amannet, he will leave a sort of presidency guide containing a section on the most common problems that are real. Speaking of enlargement, it seems to me that behind defensive comments on criticism, there is still awareness that both northern Macedonia and Albania have received worse treatment than deserved. That's important. A fellow Stier mentioned some to call them compensation mechanisms and that's good. I would like to conclude on this point that the threat of a political shift in candidate countries is in the context of a Euroscepticism or some broad consensus that the European path is not for these countries, it is also represented by the way carried on the wings of unfair treatment that some countries could experience in the accession process, that these are very serious threats to Croatia's interests above all, but also a test of consistency with the values that we are declaring. I encourage the ruling to take this into account and that the prevention of such developments in the future shows a very serious engagement because, especially if the media spills in Macedonia, they may be more linguistically available or in Albania with some translation, you will see that there are already quite a number of commentators who say that this may not be the right way for these countries. That's why it's important. And of course, I would like to encourage once again the ruling European policies to bring more transparent and inclusive future policies. Our club in the procedure has concluded that this specific report is this time noted, we hope to have opportunities and vote and thus welcome you all together.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28343	The closing statement on behalf of the rapporteur, Prime Minister Gordan Grlic Radman.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28344	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Madam Representative, gentlemen of the House of Representatives, I've got 20 minutes left for me, even though I had the urge to report during the debate. You know, you always have this initiative if you feel that something is not your right or that you should react, but here I have listened to all of you and I can join Mr Glavasevic's words, it was constructive, I would say it was both reassuring and affirmative and I am glad that I feel that you end up with reports that you still feel accepted or that you consider it legitimate, relevant, and that it was actually a report for you 5 reports in one that were drawn up by colleagues and colleagues in a narrative that does not suffer Soviet phrases, which does not suffer as one gentleman said it was very sorry that I knew how much effort has been put into it. I have never worked in socialism before, nor have I been a member of the party, so I was away from any such language as the Soviet or communist totalitarian as Mr. Rasudiæ called it, but I lived in Switzerland as an emigrant and I wrote German and at home Croatian. But here I am glad that these 18 minutes my job will be made easier because here is my colleague and minister in the government during the presidency contributed a lot to it, my dear Zdravka Busic, who was a secretary of state at the same time of the presidency so that they kind of lit up or actually gave you a really wider introduction you know because sometimes there's a feeling that you actually have a different perception if you haven't experienced something on your own. So I could say that if you didn't experience it then you might have slept through you know something then when you talk to the facts because the facts are, the facts are that deny all those personal points of view, so the arguments, they're one point of view, and the other are arguments. So thank you this one, and also to all those who tried to do this one little miracle that my colleague State Secretary Andreja Metelko Zgombić said yes, it is a little miracle. It's a bit of a miracle because at a time when a small country who had no experience after seven years of EU membership was preparing, we were in one small one I would say to a positive cramp you know because everyone else is watching you. Croatia's small has just come out of the war relatively, freed itself, a modern, young state with its burdens and economic and transitional and however you will but brave, persuading, it knew what foreign policy objectives were, it knew where it belonged and where it was going and when it achieved its foreign policy goals. And one Croatia may now have been able to come at a time when no one had hoped. You must bear in mind the fact that the EU has been in the greatest historical crisis so far. On July 1st last year, when I taught the precedent symbolically to the Brandenburg door of the German Foreign Minister Heik Maasu, he told it for a long time that the EU in the pandemic of the Member States had dedicated itself to itself because there was no health policy legislation, each country sought to organise itself. In fact, there has been isolation, a total block of communication, delaying, meeting, Croatia says, at that time Croatia has coordinated joint action for the first time in history by activating this political mechanism for crisis situations when there has been no meeting but by deciding the procedure, so written. It's so some situations you need to know. What will the Croatian presidency be remembered for? So, all our goals have been met, let's not forget that. The only thing we've been prolonging, which we haven't been able to agree on is a multi-annual financial framework, but we've prepared all the groundwork to be agreed on July 17th, actually, later extended due to the veto of some states and in December of the month when the prime minister therefore authorised his colleague Jansa, which doesn't mean that it's a surrender of sovereignty, it's a European practice. We have a common case of the Minister of the Nordic countries representing a Danish minister or an Icelandic minister in one, on that format or let's say that the Irish represents some other countries, etc. It's a common case, and there's no problem with that. If you know what your views are and what you want to achieve. And this is exactly Janez Janša, who is a member of his party of the European People's Party, which is our sister's party, we trust and thus we strengthen trust in each other, we strengthen good neighbourly relations. I'm sorry here actually there was a lot of this so little and it was said clearly that, well, the opposition and the government, of course, that we don't expect here now that you, that the opposition, of course, are a good critic, but the criticism is constructive and not a criticism, then let the arguments then defend our views. We are here in front of you, this is a legislative body, if we are criticising actually Croatian politics, then we are all you because we are a reflection of Croatian society and you here, let's compare then let's see what the Bundestag is, what is the French parliament, what is the Italian Parliament they talk about, as they speak, because they are sticking to linguistic escapades about what is actually a demographic deficit. Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic only said, so he expressed his view that the United Kingdom was wrong to come out of the EU. We're all aware of that and that's all our point of view. It's his right to say his point of view. It is precisely a demographic deficit to challenge him to say it, he said here in the Croatian Parliament. So, it is the right of citizens in the United Kingdom to decide whether or not they will, but we have not interfered with the right of citizens, but the fact that if you have listened to the 3 years that Brexit has tired the EU, it is clear that it is later that there may have been a new referendum in order for this to come safely to another decision. So now you have the situation that Scotland also wants to have, wants to stay in the EU and has actually produced this Brexit many other problems. You have the question of Northern Ireland and the question of Ireland and the question of the soft border. So there's a lot of complex things about the United Kingdom, but here we are really going to come to you, and it's also going to come to Brexit, and we're also going to show you actually the experience of how this United Kingdom came out of the EU. It's been here a lot, so here I've been recording, having the right Mr. Glavasevic, but I have you know 30 years I'm gonna be almost that I'm at the Foreign Ministry so I have a lot of these various notes. When Mr. Troscott began to speak then I was actually in that program of his, in fact, a programming speech that shows actually the profile of a country I did not recognize Croatia, but there are elements if we are talking about red tape, if we are talking about corruption. Of course, it is in every government's interest to reduce corruption, to root out corruption, not to actually reduce but to eradicate it because every government of Hellenian times, from Agora, when honorably entered the assembly when defending national interests, the interests of society, the state, etc., were honorable goals, every government wants to and to achieve honorable goals also to use honorable means. So we're doing the best we can. I can tell you that I am honored and proud to be in the government led by Andrej Plenkovic and his working and intellectual capacity and experience. And it's lucky we have him at the head of the government. Here I, I've been writing down a lot and it's really little time for me to talk about everything, I'm going to try to at least say something that you most talked about Northern Macedonia and I'd really like to explain to you exactly the opposite. I remember in September 2019 in New York at the General Assembly of 4 countries signed a declaration on the rapid approach, the opening of accession negotiations with Northern Macedonia and Albania. Greece, Romania, Croatia and Bulgaria. Therefore, the new methodology which France actually imposed supported by the Netherlands and Denmark, etc., did not suit us, it created problems for us, but then we negotiated with other Member States first and foremost with France so that this new methodology would nevertheless, in order to adapt this new methodology to those countries and that these countries could, based on this new methodology, achieve accession negotiations, open negotiations and that is our success, but we are in fact what Mr Pavić said exactly that first step. So you couldn't get a date without defining the views or framework that should have been set by the European Commission and agreed on an intergovernmental conference, and the second one meant our chairmanship had already ended. We were grateful to Northern Macedonia. There were two ministers and this Dimitrov and this Osman Bujari where they praised and thanked so much Croatia for supporting, and we are therefore here and later and after the Germans took over the presidency we supported the opening without the rest means defining the date for the start of the negotiations. Therefore, Croatia was on all councils with all member states, so we did not condition the date of something, so it was the only one Bulgaria, we are sorry, but we could not help it. So, we were absolutely open and we are still standing and we would be happy to see Northern Macedonia, which was indeed a prisoner because of its name, and it has finally been many, many years, and I think they deserve membership or the start of negotiations with the EU. Of course, when we talk about emigration, emigration is a universal problem especially in countries, small countries in northern and eastern Europe. The fact is that we are no longer a foreigner in the EU, so we can move, move, look for work where we are better. But I don't see this one as catastrophic. The truth is it has gray zones and we can fill it out, it's also the policy of this government, demographic policy, rebuild, offer, open new jobs, young jobs, attract the same foreign investment to get people to work as soon as possible. When you look at the unemployment rate, it's much less in any case than it is in previous governments. When you look at the same way that our emigrants come back, we also have, on the one hand it's leaving, but it's coming again. I'm not looking at it, so I can't personally look at it disastrously, it's not as dramatic as it tries to show it. Anyone who wants to live in Croatia can find a job, can live in Croatia, Croatia offers quality of life, and also foreigners are happy to come and buy land, buy houses, buy apartments so it is not so black, but I agree that there is always space and that is why we should work together to improve. When we talk about contractual assets, funds paid, etc., it's not true that we haven't, we've accomplished a lot. And just by pawning Plenkovic, we made more money than we actually could, as we were then, which was intended for Croatia. So he negotiated those funds we got, they were negotiated, they weren't just insured, that's not true. I know how those negotiations went. We now have with today's 92 billion kuna or 113% of the contracted funds, 38 billion kuna or 46 percent. And when we found 2016, Mr. Hajdukovic, we had 9% of the funds and only 3% of the funds paid. I'm talking about how much, how the facts speak about how much we do and how hard we try. When we talk about diplomacy, sir, Mrs. Peovic is not here right now because she mentioned diplomacy so in this strange context that I didn't really understand but I realized that she was inactive, and there are actually facts that say the opposite. When we take this earthquake that took place in Banovina where the prime minister is the same, so in the same hour he went with his associates to Banovina, where the government immediately took part, to establish, in fact, the situation, facts and the first stage brought damage to the recovery by forming that headquarters. We already have international ones, we have countries immediately involved a civil protection mechanism, and this is the advantage of EU membership because if you didn't have it, someone was saying Mr. Zeklanović's harm to be gone, compared to Albania, Albania was therefore not an EU member, organised a donor conference, and we said how much she actually received the money that should be returned. There were 51 victims you know and it was seen, it was the November month of that year 2019, and surely such a poor hard country was certainly and was so destroyed, so when you look at the scales and the deaths and the crashes so they're not comparisons of the category. So on that side of Croatia that opened means that civil protection mechanism you already had 84 containers from Austria, already the countries immediately sent Hungary, Slovenia, all the neighbouring countries of Italy, all the countries joined in helping, show solidarity. You saw here recently that there were two ministers who visited Banovina. When we talk about foreign policy engagement, there used to be a Pompeo State Secretary here, the last one was in 2010, Russian was the last one in 2004, the French minister was the last minister, not known when he was, in 2009 in Dubrovnik, not taken bilaterally. Therefore, local, regional visibility is being strengthened by global visibility. These ministers do not come by chance, they actually come because we engage and, of course, always in our bilateral talks then we talk about what Croatia wants. Croatia wants to create, Croatia is not a small country, nothing is small, little is just what is in our heads or it is small or large, therefore there are no big and small countries and there is no other. Therefore, we know what our interests are, let us create foreign policy, content of foreign policy in the interests of the Republic of Croatia, Croatian citizens. When it comes to BiH, we talked about it the same way, you said it, we mentioned it. Of course BiH is the functionality, stability, prosperity of BiH's three constituent nations, equal peoples that it is in Croatia's interest. If Croatia is stable, we also want a stable neighbourhood, and a stable neighbourhood will be stable if the economy is stable and the people who are there are satisfied. No nation can be dominant, and neither can be threatened, nor can one have more, nor can the other have less. Therefore, Croatia will not stand by when it actually feels one of these that what has been determined since the ages, but also modernly from the Dayton Agreement constitutionality, equality will not stand by. And when it comes to the migrant crisis, which is unfortunately so-called. The Balkan route is certainly advocating to guard the border of entry, Croatia is against building camps, camps, migrant camps along its border. If these camps are built then let them be built on entry points or to strengthen in fact the police that protects borders on BiH's entry and we will certainly help, and there will be speeches on the Council on January 25th where I will talk about this, about the migration crisis in BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28345	Thank you. Here's a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so two replicas, wait a minute. First breach of the Rules of Procedure, MP Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28346	Thank you very much, Vice President. The minister injured Article 238, and a good practice in this assembly where a colleague who rhetorically compared something to the Soviet Union, implies that he has a link between my colleague I will break up with this socialism and the socialist system, and justify myself that it has nothing to do with what is false. And your family member, your father was the socialist director of Agroprotein which in privatisation became the property of your family. So you can't imply to others that he was 16 years old when Yugoslavia was imposing the parallels of some rhetorical and that he is now some socialist from socialism I have no idea, a socialist dictator, not that it was one parallel, and I ask you not to draw such parallels towards people who he was 15 when it came to Croatia. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28347	This wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I give you a warning. We have the next line, the distinguished representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28348	Your Honor, I must refer to one of your statements. And I'll quote that, anyone who wants to work in Croatia can get a job. I don't know which Croatia you live in which parallel universe and on which planet, but I have to make you feel a little bit more aware if you look a little further than Zrnivec, if you look a little further from the HDZ centre that most of our people can't find a job. And not to go abroad, not to go to other EU member states for fun. But if you know that this is so easy and it can be done like this, I invite you to come to Osijek or anywhere in Slavni where unemployment is very high, so explain to people where it is and how it is so easy to find jobs if you want to work in Croatia. The only thing I can think of is that you start handing out HDZ membership cards because that's one of the few ways you can get a job in Slavonia or wait literally for someone to die.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28349	Replication response, Your Honor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28350	Thank you very much, Mr. Hajdukovic. I'm talking about the fact that there is room for everything in Croatia, and of course we all have to engage in that. When you really look at the fact that unemployment in Croatia is much less than it was in earlier years then jobs are being opened. So people can work in Croatia but the fact that the EU is free of movement of people and goods, people are leaving out of curiosity. I was an ambassador to Germany, and I know often that people come and they just want to try something, but people come back after a while. You know, it's not really just out there being great, right now you're waiting for you to know the job and make big money, buy some big car, etc., everyone has to, you have to put a lot of effort and effort into getting a job.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28351	Next replica, distinguished representative Eric Fabianic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28352	... Your replica in response to the replica of Mr. Hajdukovic. [[Speakers speaking at the same time do not understand.]] The issue is the reduction of the unemployment rate, perhaps due to the fact that the unemployed left Croatia. I'm also a couple of years old and I've also traveled a little bit of the world, so without further ado, it's not easy abroad. But the Honorable Minister has one more thing, I know that you have scheduled 20 minutes but in those 20 minutes on the subject itself we have little, we have heard little, we have heard of a visit by Mike Pompey which is essentially not the subject of this report, and what disappoints me is that Mr. Pompeo came at the end of Trump's term which ended as he ended, well it's also my position that, which I may be a little less apologist than Mr. Plenkovic, no. And that unfortunately as much as the European Parliament voted that for the same, for equal treatment of the visa regime This is what we decided to do bilaterally, so we haven't solved it yet, and here it is. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28353	Replica response, Your Honor, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28354	Yes, when we speak of Mr Pompe, then we are actually talking about this exactly avoidance means an agreement on avoidance of double taxation and Croatia's entry into visa waiver. Those were actually our interests. So after 30 years of independence Croatia will actually be released from the visa regime and that is our success. And already here, when we have a replica of this gentleman rising up, I speak for myself, you know, and I think that Mr. Rasudiæ insulted this prime minister, he spoke about the demographic deficit and Soviet phrases, and I can't do in this text a report that I can't really allow, but I have to read that this text that people who were working on had nothing to do with the Soviet dictionary who worked hard, professionally, to present to you, so that's why I was reacting to it was my reaction.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28355	Thank you, Minister. We have one breach of the Rules of Procedure, Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28356	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers, you have injured Article 238, and you have again violated the practice we have in the Croatian Parliament by insulting parliamentary representatives who have drawn the parallels of rhetorical ones. Parale if you know what it is. And you justified yourself that you had nothing to do with socialism. Well, your father was the socialist director of Agroprotein, and in privatisation he became the owner and now you're among the 200 richest families. Then how come you had nothing to do with socialism? You were born, where were you born? [[Santer Invader: Time.]] Albania or Yugoslavia?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28357	This wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. You have a second warning. Another violation of the Rules of Procedure, distinguished representative Marko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28358	Thank you very much. Well, I'd like to ask the chairman to warn his fellow Bulls. Positive practice, as far as I know, does not exist in Article 238. This is what my colleague Bulj knows, so he insults the minister at a personal level and it's just not right and it's not the practice of this House. I ask you to refrain from it in the future and to think that you can replicate some unusual practice that isn't in the Rules of Procedure in this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-01-19-0.u28359	Okay. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Thank you, Minister. We continue tomorrow at 9.30 A proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the restoration of buildings damaged by the earthquake in the City of Zagreb, Krapina-Zagorje County and Zagreb County with the Final Bill of Law. Good night! Session adjourned in 20.57 hours.
