ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u42764	Good morning, respected MPs and respected MPs. Please take your seats so we can start working. Before we move on to today's work, I'd just like to be based on an article. 247. The Rules of Procedure proposed that we conduct a joint discussion on the 2nd and 3rd points of the agenda, which is the proposal for a decision on the resolution of the Director-General of HRT and the Proposal for a decision on the appointment of the Chief Director of HRT. Do you agree with this proposal? Thank you very much. Then we'll have a united discussion. Now we're going to start with the presentation of the position of clubs and independent representatives, and in half 11 or 10 and 30, we're going to start with the first item of the agenda of the Prime Minister's Report, so if we finish early, we're going to have a short break, if we don't proceed immediately. I see only one hand in the air, colleague Vidovic Kristo, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u42765	Mr. Chairman, I would like to pay our respects to yesterday, to express a moment of silence or a minute of prayer for the victims of the Srebrenica genocide committed by Serb troops. This terrible crime has been the most terrible crime since World War II, has not been adequately punished, and the genocide committed by Serbian troops today has been denied by many politicians.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u42766	Okay. There was a memorial service already in HS organized by our representative, Lekaj Arlaskaj. However, I invite you to give a minute of silence to the victims of genocide in Srebrenica. - A moment of silence - May it be their eternal glory and let such a crime never happen again. Now he will speak to a respected colleague, Stipo Mlinarić, on behalf of the House of Homeland Movement Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u42848	Thank you, Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. First, I would like to thank Reverend General Anti Pracino, who gave me the free speech because he wanted to explain a little bit to Prime Minister Plenkovic about the Orthodox Church, but there will be opportunities for that. Dear defenders, today I want to point out the fact that for Croatia is very dangerous and that enables Croatia to sell, humiliate, betray, destroy. In Croatia, for example, there is no mechanism to protect national interests that would prevent the Prime Minister from, for example, selling the most sacred national interests when it comes to this. This means that Croatia is like a hijacked ship that depends exclusively on the will, mercy and mercies of the pirates who possess it. Long ago, from the moment HDZ extended its tentacles to all institutions, it politicized them, the same HDZ has so much power at national and local level that it can implement any decision it wants. That will prove this law on the alleged protection of civilian war victims. The fact that this law is adopted to leverage the occupation, in order to relativise the Homeland War and to ensure the financial independence of the party's Chetnik voter Goran Hadzic SDS. As much as the people feared it, as much as the defenders detested it, the law would pass. HDZ has so much power that it will always find a way to spend some hero and legend of the Homeland War, that through his charisma, they will silence the defenders because the defenders will not raise a tent before the HDZ Ministry, although he continues the policy of that minister against whom they protested, and so is he with them. This political network is so powerful that it can allow itself to completely separate from the original idea and purpose of creating a Croatian state. The HDZ today has so much networked the control mechanisms of power that it can allow itself to have leaders sitting on its forehead in this original idea, entirely by those who are not proven at all in patriotism either in the creation of Croatia or in Christian attitudes and whose idea is absolutely unknown. And how did that happen? So even within that party there is no democracy. Those who choose the party cannot in any way affect the staffing of the party or affect the staffing of the institutions of government or the composition of representatives in this Assembly or anything else. As a result of the lack of internal democracy in HDZ, it flows across the country. In fact, Croatia is not a democratic state in practice. Although it is called the Democratic Republic of China, it is also called Serbia or Belarus, and in practice it is not democratic states. In fact, Croatia lives in a world-class, totalitarian system that takes place in the form of democratic processes that are not. Such totalitarianism as here, we have, can always be sure that one Tom Bear, who will spend, play, blackmail, deceive and seduce, will always compromise against his own conscience because he will think that it protects the defense population. They will always find one prominent intellectual of anyone from every sphere of society doing so and other totalitarian systems to hold a candle. They will always find several defence associations and a trade coalition partner, covered with it as a fig leaf and thus continue to destroy Croatia. So here we have a situation that in Croatia is actually legally responsible only for what seems to be against the government and the authorities, for major crimes may sometimes be held accountable, but for the management of the state never is and will not and cannot be answered. In the Croatian politics in which so many national interests have been betrayed from war to this day, no one has ever been responsible for this betrayal, and neither will the one that is happening today. Why? Because we're not good with the electoral law, because we don't respect the Constitution and because we've been scheduled by all the institutions. The Croatian ship is run by pirates, not by national conscious politicians. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u42849	Yeah. It's a free speech, and I'll stick to the fact that I won't comment on it no matter what you say. Now we'll go... No, it's better, you'll certainly win the election convincingly, given how you described us. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We'll continue at 10:30, just like I announced. It's 10:08 p.m. 5th debated colleague Anka Mrak-Taritash on behalf of the Center and GLAS Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u43051	Thank you very much, esteemed President HS, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. The EU has a rather awkward habit, at least from our perspective. She likes to collect data from all possible species, likes statistics, likes research, likes to talk to people and analyze figures. And most of all, she likes the data she's come to pack up in reports, analyses, rankings and charts, and then on a variety of topics, we find out where we are compared to other European countries. And every time the EU publishes a new report, we feel like parents who have a very bad student at home, bad governance, even worse. And so after every parent, after every piece of information, it's always the same. The other day, the European Commission published this year's edition of one of our old acquaintances... Annual review of the indicators of efficiency, quality and independence of the judiciary. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is one of the main sources of information for the annual report on the rule of law. In an explanation of the report itself, it says that effective judicial systems are necessary for the application of EU law to preserve the rule of law and perhaps the most important preservation of values that are in the EU's foundations. The European Commissioner for Justice in the introduction of this year's report says that in the vast majority of the countries, the effectiveness of the judiciary has improved again in the past year. At the same time, in one smaller part of the member states ensuring citizens' trust in their own legal systems remains a challenge. You can guess once which group of countries our country belongs to, that poor student from the beginning. So let's see, by the time it takes to settle cases at first-degree courts, Croatia is at the very top of the EU, the expected time is about 500 days, only Greece and Italy are ahead of us. We're not much better at the ratio of solved cases compared to newly arrived items. Unfortunately, we are among the last in the EU and 2019, although we have made some progress over the past few years, it has again led us to a major gap in cases that are arriving at courts and those who are getting rid of them. This previous data is immediately linked to another place at the very top of the EU, the one on unresolved cases of 100 inhabitants. We have again reached a very high 2nd place in the Union, although it should be said that there is no data for 4 countries. When it comes to money, we are, of course, among the weakest. Given the percentage of GDP that we invest in the judiciary, we are actually among the leading Union, but given how weak our GDP is, we are investing almost at least everyone in the judiciary. There are only three Member States behind us, and yet, although little or very little we invest in the judiciary, we have a second largest number of judges per 100,000 inhabitants in the Union. Only Slovenia is ahead of us. The differences in this category are dramatic. Croatia is at about 40 judges, Germany is at below 25, Denmark is at 6, and Ireland, for example, at 3. It's an interesting piece of information, and although we have the most judges, by the number of lawyers we're among the last in the Union. After the availability of online information on the justice system for the general public, we are the latest in the Union. We haven't gotten any better in the last few years. It's the same story with procedures that allow the use of digital technologies in courts, we're the last in the Union. According to all the indicators regarding the use of digital technologies, we are among the worst. And then finally, the report, that eternal total defeat of Croatia, the worst in the Union by the impression of judges and courts. The pressure on politics is listed here as the first reason, such an impression of justice is given by citizens of the company and then we are surprised that there are no investments and so do we year by year. It's always the same thing. Where we're supposed to be at the top we're at the bottom, and where we're supposed to be at the bottom, we're at the top, and the party in power doesn't do anything for six years and it's seen on every scale that anyone puts our country in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u43117	We are going to another debate, the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and Honored counterpart Marijan Pavliček. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u43118	Dear President of HS, colleagues and colleagues. I believe that most of you have heard of Father of the Motherland, Ante Starčević, who feeds on the bread of the people, has an account to be taken. Also, a Croatian giant, Stjepan Radic said, is not enough to approach the people, it should be with the people to step in. There is not enough among the people to stand, but among the people to stay. And Frano Supilo, a well-known politician and publicist, said from his biggest son, the people are even bigger. And in the Croatian Constitution, and this first article, clearly and loudly stands, in the Republic of Croatia power comes from the people and belongs to the people. But lately, the people have been asking less and less in the Republic of Croatia. Especially when it comes to important points of gravity. The topics affecting the very course of the Croatian state and the everyday life of our citizens. The only mechanism in which people can express their views directly on a subject is through a referendum. We have had 3 referendums in the modern Croatian state so far, in May of '91. in January 2012, a referendum on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union and in December 2013 a referendum on the constitutional definition of marriage. There were a dozen more referendum initiatives, but none gave birth to a referendum for this reason or that reason. In the past few months, in particular for several days, rule increasingly mentioning Croatia's entry into the Eurozone, abolishing the national currency of kuna and taking over the euro as a means of payment, without anyone asking the Croatian people what the people think about it. The ruling says we have already committed ourselves to EU accession and to take over the euro. None of the Croatian citizens knew that. These contractual obligations have some other members, who have joined the EU before us, such as Hungary, such as Poland, such as the Czech Republic, so today they have not even thought about introducing the euro and these contractual commitments do not define what is the deadline for introducing the euro. And, as they say, there will be no improvement in standards. We will not begin to fall from the sky if we introduce the euro, nor will the standard of Croatian citizens grow. Unfortunately, there will be a short-term safe collection of retail prices and there will be a fall in the standards of all citizens. Both the introduction of the euro over the knee and the rapid fruit of personal ambition, not the carefully designed national strategy. It was enough for Croatia to be just a line in someone's résumé. No more courting the Brussels powers. Croatia must have a sovereign policy, Croatia should have partners, but it cannot be a country on a remote control. On such an important issue where a part of sovereignty is lost, in this case monetary sovereignty, cannot be decided by individuals in their offices after agreeing with the Brussels Powers. This topic can only be decided by the Croatian people through a referendum. Therefore, during October Croatian sovereigns will launch an initiative called Protecting Croatian Kuna to collect a sufficient number of signatures to launch a referendum on the protection of Croatian Kuna. We do not want to privatise this project, and this way I call on all prominent individuals, all parties of a similar worldview to join us, because, only by common forces can we resist the ruling majority's opinion. Let the people decide what is best because the people know best what is best for him and for the state of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u43209	We will now hear a respected colleague, Vlasic Iljkic, who will speak on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u43210	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. The welfare system has been crying out for years for solutions to the problems in which it is located. Tragic cases that occur in the area are particularly sensitive groups of children and elderly persons, the death of a social worker and a lawyer two years ago at the Social Care Centre are indicators of the seriousness of the situation in which the system is located. Unfortunately, a number of public debates have not resulted in positive changes in the system. We still have the Ministry of Labour, Pensions, Family and Social Policy, headed by Minister Aladrović and Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, who are not touched by the proposals of those who implement this welfare system, the opinion of the profession through the Croatian Chamber of Social Workers, the Croatian Association of Social Workers and the Academic Community through the Faculty of Social Labour of the University of Zagreb and all those who support the opinion of the profession. On Friday, the Croatian Chamber of Social Workers submitted a proposal to launch a procedure for assessing the constitutionality of the provisions of the Family Law, according to which experts of the Centre for Social Care were appointed guardians of the deprived business skills without their consent. The proposal was submitted on the second anniversary of the murdered professional workers by a protégé whose social worker, by force of the law, has been appointed a guardian. Our proposal is for the staff of staff appointed by official duty to be staffed by the Centre for Special Care, which needs staffing to be strengthened by professionals who would do these tasks. It's a long-standing problem of the system, it's a job that requires the increasing involvement of the guardians because the problems that the protégés face on a daily basis are the growing, indifference, poor family relations, rejection, isolation and lack of support in the community. The problems of the welfare system have been detected and guidance on which legislation should go. The announced Social Welfare Act and the Action Plan do not offer a solution to growing problems, and we cannot in any way reflect the way of organisation in HZMO or HZZO on the welfare system. Each local environment has its own problems and they are not the same in Slavonia, Zagreb, central Croatia or Dalmatia and each area does not have the same resources to deal with centralisation of the system as the Action Plan and the proposed Croatian Institute for Social Work offers. The system needs enhanced work on the ground, available workers who are motivated and ready for all that awaits them in daily work, in households of persons or families in need. There is not every environment sufficient number of accommodation facilities for children or older persons, developed parenting support services, for the assistance of victims and perpetrators of family violence or generally available content for social inclusion in the community. Our proposal has already been repeated many times in public and in line with the recommendations of the profession, a significant reduction of public authority in certain financial contributions, compensation for assistance and care, personal disability, remuneration for employment and strengthening the role of the Social Care Centre in the community. strengthen links with cities and municipalities in the field of care, in particular the education and health system, the civil sector and the judiciary, thus strengthening cross-sectoral cooperation. It is unacceptable to continue the establishment of a Committee of Appeals of citizens whose experts consist mostly of representatives of the civil sector and whose task it will be to control the work of professional workers. Can we imagine the establishment of such a committee in the health system where the civil sector would directly control the work of a doctor? The existing inspections did not play a sufficient role in the social care system, and whose experts were experts, and yet there were tragedies. Then what do we expect from this committee? Let us remind, and now professional workers respond daily to submissions and complaints according to the General Administrative Procedure Act. It is not too late and we are calling for common sense with the prime minister and the minister, and that changes in the legislation are brought into consensus with the profession because they are too often called for commonity and consensus to now miss an opportunity, and this is an area where a high level of understanding and a desire for joint success should be shown. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u43312	Now, she will speak to a respected colleague, Grozdana Peric, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u43313	Thank you very much, esteemed President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. According to the latest published data from the State Statistics Institute for the first quarter of 2021. The Republic of Croatia had GDP growth 5.8% compared to the same period last year. It is equally important to note that the European Commission has improved its forecast for Croatia in summer projections to 5.4% for this current year of Croatian GDP growth. The previous projection was only 5% while for the next one it was also corrected to 5.9 instead of 6.1. This results from positive indicators in terms of consumption, construction, industry and tourism. In addition, investment growth is expected to continue with the support of recovery and resilience plans. Optimism was also supported by last week's handover of the agreed recovery and resistance plan delivered by the President of the European Commission, Mrs. von der Leyen. Note, there are 6.3 billion EUR of grants and 3.6 billion of favourable loans available to Croatia. This represents almost 12% of our GDP while the EU average is 3.7%. We will soon receive an advance of EUR 818 million and the rest in 10 half-year meals. It is a great responsibility and work is yet to come because 76 reforms, 146 investments classified as 5 components and one initiative were accepted in the national plan. 53% of NPOO funds go to the economy in the broadest sense, and education, for example. Even 16%, for administration and justice and state property 9%, labour market and social protection 4, health care 5, and building reconstruction 12%. It should once again be noted that, overall, from the multiannual financial framework of the European Solidarity Fund, the funds from the previous financial perspective of Croatia are available at EUR 30 billion in this 10-year period. It is a huge potential and leverage for strong economic growth and development that we must certainly take advantage of. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u43411	I now call first in line, dear colleague of the Zvonimir Troscott on behalf of the Most Representatives' Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u43412	Dear President HS, distinguished colleagues and fellow citizens who follow us through the screen. Children are an investment, not a expense to society. As regards the measures, the parent raiser MOST during the campaign for the City of Zagreb advocated the measure or political solution of the parent parent at half the working time where half the working time would then be financed from working relationship with the employer or self-employment in the case of entrepreneurship and craftsmanship, and on the other hand, the rest would therefore be financed from the parent's own measure. When we proposed this measure, we would calculate that in order for parents to move to that proposed measure, the parenter MOST would then save 250 million kuna at that time, which would be under number one enough to cover the kindergarten debts that are now 100 million kuna, and on the other hand, that would be enough to open at least two new kindergarten capacities that the City of Zagreb needs very badly. The positive effects of our proposal would be the following, first of all, the Zagreb budget would be filled with taxes and taxes from part-time, the cost would be reduced because parents as such would work part-time, half-time, protect our parents in a working relationship for reasons that they could not get fired so easily, and on the other hand they would come much more ready and skilled again to the labour market and therefore continue their professional growth. We would encourage entrepreneurship, craftsmanship and other family companies for the reason we now see how much these start-ups contribute to the Croatian economy. Furthermore, what we have seen is that the trend in Zagreb is first of all, but I see it also in Croatia, are also also playrooms which are like such and alternatives to today's kindergartens because there are no kindergarten facilities. And in the end, we would also relieve our educators and educators for the reason that there is already a great deal of pressure on them, given that there are too many children, and on the other hand too few raisers. On the third hand, therefore, our fewer and fewer people are deciding to study preschool education, which in the thinking strategy automatically means that there will be no people who will raise our children in the medium and long term, and all these people who are now already schooling are unfortunately going to EU markets. I don't see the strategy of the current city administration, I don't see first of all, and I don't see in the management of finance because so far, there's been a state of strategy and management of the current debt, and there have been certain responsibilities and no one knows which direction it is going. So, I don't even see a serious solution to the question, so preschool education management for a reason, for example, one "Poleletac" kindergarten located in Gornji Dubrava, so in Ljevakovic's 8, children are only 1.5 m2, and the standard requires 5, so we're already stealing their childhood. Along with this kindergarten there is a boiler room which, if lit or exploded, unfortunately we will have our children's funerals, which means that we are talking about the serious capacity problems of our kindergartens, not only in Zagreb but throughout Croatia. So, we're talking about Gornji Dubrava now, and I deliberately pointed out it for the reason that Gornja Dubrava as such is one of the 4 cities that has natural growth, so by Sesvete, by Stenjevec and by the Upper and New Zagreb-West respectively, so these are urban districts that have natural growth and it is necessary and necessary to think ahead and strategically and prepare slowly for all those children who are more born there than the elderly die. Now there's a Sesvetian king in his 40s. He's already waiting for his kindergarten, he's gone. So, Novi Zagreb-West and Stenjevec, therefore with this natural increase, do not speak. The city of Zagreb, as such, is in debt because it cannot even pay the salary and that is the fact, however, with such information we have not gone out, and in the future we will have a problem with the lack of breeders and breeders, we have no kindergarten capacities, where will we be with our children, dear gentlemen and dear gentlemen right now the City of Zagreb? Where are we going with them? Unfortunately, I do not see a strategy in the medium or long term in managing such an important segment as preschool education, and we have seen that it has also been accompanied by finance and now I see that with these moves the city administration will not be able to respond to the dynamics and pressures of this complex system, and the children are waiting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u43451	We're going to the 3rd debate, IDS Representatives' Club, will speak to distinguished colleague Katarina Nemet, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u43452	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues. We are in the middle of the tourist season, which, given all the difficult circumstances caused by Covid's pandemic, refuses relatively successfully. The tourist numbers cannot, of course, be measured with years before the pandemic, but they are better than last year so we can hope that this positive trend despite the constant uncertainty, will take place in the follow-up season. This is what all our tourist employees, guests, hotelers, private owners and all others who make up the Croatian tourist product, who daily make the most efforts in these specific and not easy circumstances. And this year they are faced with a series of specific challenges and problems that they are trying to solve in walking, adapt themselves to them, and so far they are doing very well. They should be congratulated and thanked and wished them as successful as possible and as long as the season continues. Except that the last two years of torment have plagued the pandemic, tourist workers continue to face some other problems that have been present for years that this coronary crisis has only further apostrophe. First of all, I will highlight the high tax, but also the parafiscal burden that has put the Croatian tourist brand in an unfavourable position in relation to competition from other countries for years. Further reduction of VAT rates on accommodation and reduction and uniformisation of tax rates on catering services is something to seriously consider. I therefore appeal to the government to Prime Minister Plenkovic and the resolution ministers to show good will and understanding and to take steps in the practice of fiscal and parafiscal discharge for which our tourism simply cries out. Another problem in the tourism sector, which this covid situation has also apostrophe of non-reporting guests. A large number of our tourists, especially those of the so-called Therefore, the non-involvement of the foreign owners of houses and holiday apartments does not report their stay and does not pay a residence tax, thus significantly cutting public budgets of local and state. The extent of the revenue lost so far was indicated by the situation of some countries last year, especially Slovenia, forcing its citizens to justify going out and entering the country by means of a stricter border regime, thereby forcing a large number of them to register their stay in Croatia and finally register and pay the residence tax. And this situation confirmed that the existing legal frameworks that regulate this issue are not adequate and effective and should be changed, both due to the proper control of guest stays, particularly important in this epidemiologically challenging time and due to significant financial resources that are lost to inefficient legislation. What the new legislation should provide is certainly the possibility that powers and autonomy in monitoring and sanctioning black-door accommodations to local self-government units and local tourist communities as well as that worked very well until the end of the 1980s when these jobs were carried out by auxiliary tourist inspectors in the authority of the municipalities at the time. This downsizing of powers to local and regional levels with the appropriate legal framework would help to address this, but also a number of other similar situations to a multiple benefit. So it's about another segment so much decentralization that we in IDS always advocate. And finally, I'm going to add how deeply I hope that last year's situation won't happen again when the season is suddenly over in the middle of August. It will depend, of course, on the epidemiological measures and decisions of the countries from which tourists are coming to us, but it is clear that we ourselves will have a good influence on these decisions, just as we did last year. I want to believe that we learned something from last year's mistakes and that individuals will not again be allowed to compromise the favourable epidemiological situation with their irresponsible actions and thus endanger the tourist season and all the good that has been done by then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56413	[[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 10.24 HOURS]] We are now going to the agenda as announced: - Report by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia on the meetings held by the European Council. The applicant is the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. The President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia will submit a report in accordance with Article 2 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 11. Law on the cooperation of HS and the Government of the Republic of Croatia in European affairs. The debate was conducted by the Committee on European Affairs. I welcome the Prime Minister and ask him to give an additional explanation of this report, Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56414	Good afternoon, honourable MPs and MPs, Honorable President HS. I am pleased to inform you about the work and the participation of the European Council in the meetings, meetings in the form of videoconferencing, and at the informal meeting and social summit held in Port, which was all over the past 6 months. Today I want to talk about where we are in common efforts to fight the Covida-19 pandemic, our efforts to continue economic growth, as well as progress towards membership in the Schengen area and the euro area, and of course other activities at EU level. The European Council practically had a special agenda item on the pandemic at each meeting, which is best witnessed by a series of activities we have carried out, from support to those scientific institutions and researchers to find an effective and safe vaccine. It was practically the fastest and largest collective research venture in history, a process of vaccination that goes throughout Europe, through all EU members, started right after Christmas, of course in Croatia, a series of difficulties with AstraZenec, which in the production and distribution itself, and later in a reputation, we resolved intensive negotiations, initiatives, talks with the head man of Pfizer, we chose additional doses of vaccines that were accumulated from the third and fourth quarters, and at this point Croatia has provided a total of 3.8 million doses, we have cut 46.2% of the adult population. Unfortunately, we are below that ambition that we said 50% of adults by July 1st, but you can see for yourself that there are resistances to vaccination in Croatian society and that is why we need to look for joint efforts to encourage and encourage as many of our citizens as possible to be vaccinated. We have donated up to now 390,000 doses of vaccines, mainly to our neighbouring countries, the highest of BiH, 240,000, Montenegro, Albania and Kosovo and Northern Macedonia, an additional 20,000 doses of Kyrgyzstan at the request of and Bhutan 10,000 on request. At this point, we have a million and 300 thousand neutral doses of vaccines ready for administration. What we want to do is use a European digital covid certificate to make it possible for people to move as easily as possible, the more secure the organisation of different events, and we make sure that without the high rates of vaccinations, we will find it difficult for all together, globally speaking, to beat the virus, and therefore every vaccinated person is prevented from contagion today, saved life tomorrow and one possibility of mutation less. As far as the meetings of the European Council are concerned, you have received, of course, a printed report from the covids to the functioning of the single market, digital green transition, Union security policy, migration, a series of topics such as relations with the United Kingdom, from key foreign policy issues of course relations with Russia, with Belarus, the Eastern Mediterranean, especially relations with Turkey, the southern neighbourhood, the Middle East, Africa. I will single out only those most interesting, which is Turkey above all, so a number of complicated and open issues between Turkey and Cyprus, with Greece, which slowly in these past few months can be said to be de-escalation of so-called tension reduction, dialogue has been renewed, we believe that this is a good step forward given Turkey's importance to so-called. the eastern-Mediterranean and Western-Balkan migrant routes. We believe that dialogue with Turkey is very important. I also held talks with Turkish President Erdogan in Antalya a few days ago. As for Russia, as you know in Russia, the next election is the week before the elections in Germany, so it seems to me the second or third weekend in September. In any case, following these famous events in Belarus, Russia's theme came to the agenda as one of the most important. The Union's policy is based on 5 principles. One is the implementation of the Mine Agreement, which of course refers to Ukraine and its occupied territories, the temporary strengthening of relations with Eastern Partnership countries, strengthening resilience in different sectors, from energy security, hybrid threats and communication, and the calibration of selective engagement on foreign policy issues where we can look for touch points and contacts and co-operation with civil society, that is 5, 5 key principles on which they are based. What is important, therefore, is that the entire instrument of the economic sanctions regime is renewed every 6 months and remains an important instrument on the agenda. As for the social summit in Port, a very important meeting during the Portuguese Presidency. There I was also attended by Minister Aladrovic, the first such meeting, physically, so there was neither going nor coming to Croatia unfortunately, the EU Council for Covid or having held such a meeting in Germany, the first one after practically two years because the Finns had not organised any summit meetings before us, informal. I am saying this because we have summarised that in the time of the pandemic, the role of the state, with the assistance of EU funds, has helped to preserve jobs without precedent. So we can be pleased that in the time of Covida-19, we have prevented social fractures, we have prevented an explosion of unemployment, we have prevented a wave of bankruptcy, we have prevented existential problems for families, we have prevented workers, we have allowed employers to overcome this crisis, I have informed colleagues there about everything that we have done as a government, and that is well known to you. Of the fact that we have singled out 11.7 billion kunas to preserve jobs, in total, with these forgiven taxes and contributions, 17 billion kunas, we have also allocated funds for short working hours, fixed costs, for liquidity, to prevent all possible problems, either horizontal, or sectoral measures in a series of branches, and we can say that we have overcome that crisis in the best possible way. We are now turning around through dialogue with the social partners, a new phase, and this phase is called job creation, above all, using the EU instrument next generation. One of the more important topics in the six months was the functioning of the euro area, the summit was held in June. It was an opportunity to bring Croatia's efforts to implement the Euro Introduction Strategy very thoroughly once again. You know that this Strategy was adopted in 2018, that we have a Council for the euro, that the whole process is managed very consistently, systematically, first European Course Mechanisms II, a year ago we entered, we implement a series of policies in implementing the action plan, commitments taken, our deadline for meeting all the criteria will be March next year, the government will naturally meet all together and I expect that through a two-year internship in ERM II we will be ready. Of course, for what is most important, meeting all criteria and membership 2023. I repeat, it is important to the public that we are by our accession contract, it was an art. 5 Accession agreements confirmed at the referendum, ratified here in HS practically by consensus of all MPs of that time. That Croatia has accepted that membership in the Union, when the time comes, will meet the criteria for membership in the euro area, which is slowly coming to the agenda and our goal is to be exactly in the year of the 10th anniversary of EU membership, which makes a lot of sense and logic. I remind you that our economy is strong, integrated into European trade and financial flows, we clearly see the advantages of joining membership, we are a small, open, high-euroised economy. The expected costs are low, over 60% of the savings in Croatia in euro, over 60% of the loans in Croatia in euro or are related to the euro. 66% of foreign consumption refers to tourists coming from the Eurozone. 56% of our exports relate to the euro area Member States and there is also continued confidence in the euro, which is also important, here, according to the last Eurobarometer, you saw that trust in the process of introducing the euro in Croatia has jumped from 61% to 67%. We have met all the convergence criteria since 2016 and of course we want this process to continue in one effective and consolidated way, as we have done so far. I would remind you that the total cost of the pandemic was 20% of the state budget, so 4.5 billion euros. 2 earthquakes, on top of that 16.9 billion, so we're almost in the variant times 4, that's what we have, and others don't have in this postpandemic or still, in the exit phase of the pandemic. I would like to remind you that, in the entire process of preserving financial stability, we are primarily held by an excellent reputation, the reputation of responsible management of public finances. 2016-2019, you know, we had budget surpluses, we were coming out of excessive budget deficit procedures, excessive macroeconomic imbalances, we were reducing the rapid public debt, we were reducing it by 10%, we were among the fastest in Europe, low inflation, and now, the government, in crisis this year, used to adopt its strategic documents, from the National Development Strategy, the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, prepare key documents for the Multiannual Financial Framework, and despite last year's 8% GDP decline, you saw, after debate here in the Assembly, the budget rebalance, we expect a 5.2% growth. There are also certain encouraging signals, and estimates of certain institutions such as the CNB, of indeed very high growth in the second quarter. We believe that this will continue during the summer months and even the last quarter, and if so, we will be glad that the growth rate may be higher than the one we are currently assessing. As for the deficit, we'll try to go down, that trend, keep it to 2.6% in '22, '23. To 1.9% and also to return to this path of rapid public debt reduction, which we have already talked about several times. You also saw that in the co-operation of the Government and the CNB we started with public consultation on what Croatian coins of the euro will look like, I call on and use this opportunity for all those who want to contribute to this debate. Most for now when it comes to the Commission for Money they had supporters of the Croatian chess shop, a map of Croatia and of course the kuna, but since the process of public consultation is open, these are all topics that we will decide on together. As for the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, there have been a lot of words on the European Council, this last year's agreement that followed right after the election for HS, and you remember the final agreement on the European Council was reached on a practical day, two before the constitution of this call for HS is very good for us. We have these confirmed and positively rated 6.3 billion euros, so for the first part of the NPO-wide grant, we should get an 818m-euro advance in the fall. These funds amount to 12% of our GDP, the EU average is 3.7%, so when it comes to comparison with others, we have chosen the most funds we could under these circumstances. I believe that today will also be about, you know, those five areas of the economy, public administration, justice, state property, education, science and research, the labour market and social protection, health care and ultimately rebuilding buildings. We want to use some of these funds to finance the reconstruction. And the topics that are horizontal are the green transition 40% of the funds for the green transition, 20% for the digital transition, a series of very important valuable projects that are on the agenda, and we'll talk more about it in the debate. As for Schengen, another important element you know that the Commission has come up with a new strategy for Schengen in early June Croatia has met all the criteria, as confirmed by this Commission, Ursula von der Leyen. We believe that we are fully prepared in technical terms, contributing to the security and resilience of the Schengen area, effective border protection, checks within the Schengen Information System, management of migration pressures, preventing illegal border crossings. We want our border to become the EU's external border, invested a sum of 200m euros for technical equipment for border control, strengthening the capacity of the border police of 6.5 thousand people with excellent equipment and training is safeguarding the Croatian border. We want better management of migration and the security of the entire Schengen area. We have fulfilled 281 recommendations in eight areas with all the possible technical details that this implies. What is particularly important in communication with our partners you see yourself very articulated, clear, firm, unequivocal support of Slovenia which is very important, so this is a new and general relationship with Slovenia at a much greater level and trust and quality of relations than it was before and we will try to make sure that during their Presidency of the Council we congratulate them on, this is the second time that they have a presidency to make progress and to prepare for membership in the Schengen area. In this context, we have also formed a national independent monitoring mechanism for border monitoring, so police action against migrants, independent, transparent, effective and all in agreement with the European Commission, with Commissioner Johansson, who was in Croatia and with whom we are having very detailed talks. It may also be important for this debate to understand a bit of a broader context today on the European continent, this is a very interesting political period that will follow over the next 12 months, first because of the fact that parliamentary elections will take place in Germany on 26 September. You know for a fact that Chancellor Merkel is no longer the head of the party or is a candidate for the Chancellor, so after 16 years there is a huge political change, not only in Germany but also in Europe, but we can also say at global governance level, so that the fact will, of course, also affect EU-level developments. We will see how in political terms these elections will end, but we must take care of it. Also in May next year, the French president is elected, so in just eight, nine months, the two most important states have their most important elections so that this fact will also affect the functioning of the whole process, talks and topics at European level. The elections were also in Hungary next spring, elections were held yesterday in Bulgaria, in Sweden you saw the situation where the government fell and then returned a few days ago, no new government was formed in the Netherlands several months after the elections, in Poland returning Donald Tusk to the head of the opposition leader, so the Civil Platform. Very interesting political processes that we must take into account in particular in light of the debate on the future of Europe and the functioning of the EU at all. In all of this, it is important to keep in mind several important points that will happen in my deep confidence in our engagement of commitment that we have for these main topics over the next three years, and all have their own international dimension. First, in about two weeks, we will physically connect Croatia, so all elements of the Peljega Bridge will be combined, and there is no better mirror for modern sovereignty than the integration of our territory. Secondly, we expect that during the autumn we will stop having a visa requirement for the United States, join most of the Union members and give another freedom to move our citizens. Third, we'll enter Schengen space 2022. Fourth, that we will be in the euro area in 2023 and ultimately have new multi-purpose combat planes in the Croatian Air Force in 2024. We have solved internal security, monetary stability, external security and defence, and what is most important in connection with the territory. It will be the legacy of our other government forever. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56415	Thank you very much. We've got a lot of replicas, 27 as far as I can tell. There's a colleague, Zekanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56416	Dear President of the Croatian Government, I am interested in your position regarding the resolution on sexual and reproductive rights and women's health in the EU, in the context of women's health, so-called Resolution of Predrag Matic. As far as I know, your Europarliamentaries, the HDZ parliamentarians, were united against this resolution. Croatian sovereigns handed over in the HS procedure a resolution modelling the Slovak resolution in which we call for subsidiarity and we ask that HS reject the influence of Matic's resolution on Croatian legislation by our resolution, so I am interested, and since your Europarliamentaries gave a clear position, I am curious about your position and will you, here, politically support this resolution proposed by Croatian sovereigns in the HS procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56417	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56418	Thank you very much. Dear Representative, we have taken note of the resolution adopted by the European Parliament to demystify the subject a little bit, it is no noum, such resolutions are cyclically adopted in the European Parliament, earlier such a report that has received perhaps a little less attention here because it was not a rapporteur for the Croatian representative as Mr Matic was now. It was a resolution called the so-called resolution. estrela. We took note as government of that resolution. It does not have any binding character for any activity that takes place in Croatia, which in any other member when it comes to taking action. HDZ representatives spoke very clearly of their position. What was most important was an element relating to the appeal of conscience. On the other hand, I'm not familiar with the resolution you're talking about here in HS. If that topic ever comes to the agenda, then HDZ will take its stand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56419	Comrade Pavlich, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56420	Dear Prime Minister, I have not read anywhere in your report that the funds provided by the European Commission for Recovery and Resistance are subject to vaccination or similar conditions, so do you think that the conditions of your government are related to supporting entrepreneurs against EU policy?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56421	I didn't understand you last, I'm sorry, please repeat, I didn't hear you say this last, I apologize.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56422	You can repeat, you have more time.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56423	You got it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56424	No, no, there's still time, there's free time, there's free time.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56425	You've got 30 seconds left.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56426	Here, in your report I have not read anywhere that the resources provided by the European Commission for Recovery and Resistance are conditioned by the cleavage within the Republic of Croatia, so I am curious whether your government's decisions are contrary to EU policies if you want to tie support to entrepreneurs with the fragmentation of the employees themselves?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56427	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56428	No, so I think you know very well, and they know that I am confident that our entrepreneurs and workers, 700,000 workers, 120,000 employers, have overcome this crisis of Covida-19 only because of the decisions of the government that were swift, which were betrayed, which were effective, which were very well managed and implemented by the HZZ. What's the topic at this point is the subject of vaccination dynamics and it's objective, so at this point at EU level they're all a little bit halted because they've come to different ceilings, some are a little more successful. Go to Malta, and you will see that a small country that depends entirely on tourism does not hesitate for a moment but is vaccinated as quickly as possible to send a message of safe arrival and stay in a tourist country. I expected better dynamics with us, I thought we'd have problems for every vaccination, but after 50%, I didn't expect that in a crisis like this, in a mega crisis that we've obviously been so well honest that a bunch of people don't even see how big it was, we've come into a situation that we've slowed to 43-'4%. There are no contradictions between us and European policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56429	Comrade Daus, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56430	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, invited by last year's unpleasant experience of different approaches to responsibility or not responsibilities in different parts of the Republic of Croatia, which is why, during the night there in mid-August, Croatia closed down even though due to good weather and good epidemiological situation, for example. in Istria could be held for another month of tourist season, did the proposal be taken into account that the covid map of Europe in the ISDS system was based on the epidemiological state of each county separately, not according to NUTS-2 regions or, or countries as a whole, if where did this occur? And even when I have 20 seconds short, Istria has been since '94. in the Assembly of European Regions, the Republic of Croatia, since 2013, a full member and already more than 5 years. Northern Istria looks like a dangerous razor wire on the border with the rest of the EU, a space that has always been a ten-year example of co-existence along the border of tolerance contaminated with this wire, so I ask until when? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56431	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56432	As far as this map is concerned, we have repeatedly pointed out this, it is not the only criterion for Member States to assess whether someone is in green light, red light or other color shades. I said it very openly and on several occasions in the governments, not a moment, not a second of any other country, its government, their institutes will not hesitate that part of the Croatian coast, the Croatian county that will have a focus, which will have a high incidence not put into red light. The red light is a signal a) to those who are yet to arrive, do not go there, b) you who are there immediately, c) if you stay there longer you will go into quarantine when you return. We experienced this last year, so I can't repeat more times how much vaccination is the only way to secure the tourist season. Now it's good, we'll see how long we can hold out.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56433	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56434	And this other one I'm against the wire of any, anywhere. The wire, that I'm against the wire anywhere.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56435	Comrade Nemet, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56436	Thank you. The respected prime minister in the report stems when we talk about the issue of migration that the European Council has discussed the state of migration on different routes, how the movement on some routes is causing serious concern and requires constant caution and urgent action. This is the conclusion, one of the conclusions, of the fact that in the area of PP Buje and Buzet there is the entire land border of the Istrian County towards neighbouring Slovenia and certainly the PP bear the greatest burden of the immigrant wave passing through the area. Dear Prime Minister, I urge you this way not to allow the announced suspension of police stations to rationalise the way the police work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56437	Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56438	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56439	.../Speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56440	Comrade Vidovic Kristo, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56441	The rule of law, pluralism, freedom of political action and media freedom are the fundamental values of the EU that you systematically violate. Does the European Council know that you have set up a tender for director of HRT Bačić, who, in his spare time, has been transporting bribes to Bandic to your former dear coalition partner? On your orders Bačić censored the truth on HRT to protect the corruption of your government because if you did not control the media then Croatian citizens would know that only on the winddigger Krš-Padjene, Uljanik, Borg, privatisation of Croatia's insurance and Brodotrogir to Croatian citizens was alienated from 13 billion kuna. The European Commission has announced that Croatia is in the last place in the independence of the judiciary because of the illegal influence of justice policy, the European Commission says, not me. Who gives you the right to influence the media and the judiciary, and what are the main causes of injustice and poverty in Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56442	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56443	Thank you very much. MPs Vidović Kristo, another pathetic tirad without any arguments, Mr. Bačić chose HS, was not elected by the Croatian government. The Croatian Government had no role in this process, and if you really want not to prejudge anyone's responsibility, Mr. Bačić, until he was elected by HS, I never saw or knew in my life, so that everything you insinuate is wrong, false, false and trying to give information to the Croatian public as it led to error and manipulation. As far as we're concerned, what did you say to control the Croatian media? If we control Croatian media, then we do it somewhat masochistically. But good, since you think it's so I'll take note of what you're saying. This is Scoreboard Justice read a little more precisely, seek the difference between independence and efficiency, I am for the greater efficiency of the Croatian judiciary, and independent are.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56444	Thank you. Thank you very much. The violation of my colleague Vidovic Kristo's rules of procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56445	Mr. Chairman, Articles 7, 14 and, of course, 238, I ask you to keep in mind that the president respects what is here and what we need to do here, and that is to respect the Croatian Constitution and the Rules of Procedure that he does not act as if he is not known in the Assembly of Yugoslavia and some rude jumps avoids the answer, he is obliged by the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure to answer. I'm asking you, perhaps, to send him out of the assembly so he may be a little decent and then come back and figure out what his duty is.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56446	Please sit down, Mrs. Kristo, I don't know what kind of Assembly of Yugoslavia you might know, maybe you have some experiences, I don't. As for the Prime Minister's response, he was in line with what the Rules of Procedure predicted. ... My colleague Vidović Kristo, your dictionary is such that if I were to warn the Prime Minister now, then you probably wouldn't be able to speak at all anymore because you are much stronger, much more firmer expression you use than the Prime Minister used. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So don't ask me to warn anyone because you're the one who uses very harsh words and a very harsh dictionary. So please don't ask for what you don't give to others. Another breach of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56447	Yes, I now warn you, Mr. Chairman, that you are now in violation of the article. 4th and 7th, you are here to lead the order in this assembly to respect the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, to call on the order of those who violate that same order and to protect the integrity of HS. Instead of warning Mr. Prime Minister who is obliged to answer to HS, you're sharing me with some kind of puck. I think it's extremely inappropriate and rude.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56448	Please sit down, I didn't give you a pack after your question, but I told you when you asked for a breach of the Rules of Procedure not to hurt the Rules of Procedure because of what the Prime Minister did, because it doesn't bounce away from what everyone sitting here in HS is doing. Comrade Vrkljan, here you go. You're looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56449	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, look, Caroline Kristo just said something where she invited the Prime Minister not to devastate this House, and you're the president, and you need to keep the Parliament's dignity safe. Prime Minister Plenkovic said the government of the Republic of Croatia does not impose anything on this House. I will remind him only that there are no two weeks that the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the appointment of the Governing Council of HERA has imposed this Assembly procedure. Member of the Board of Directors.../Speakers speak at the same time./... [[The incursion president: I thank my colleague, Vrkljan.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56450	Dear Vrkljan, thank you very much, you are getting a warning. This wasn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure. This was a replica. We can move on now. Now it's my dear colleague, Selak Rasdic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56451	Dear Prime Minister. I don't want to talk about your masochistic but rather sadistic tendencies. Since for a month at least you have mentally abused Croatian citizens with various announcements of repressive measures, and you have done so well this crisis that only 30% of the employees of the Ministry of Health who are at the source of information and decision want to vaccinate as little as average, I will ask you something very specific about vaccination and vaccines. In this report, Ursula von der Leyen said that the UK was faster in the process of granting the vaccine because their government took responsibility from the manufacturer while, in the case of approval of the EU vaccine, this responsibility remained on the producers. What exactly does that mean? What part of responsibility has remained on the manufacturers who are responsible for the abduction of the vaccine and who will respond if the vaccines are not effective enough?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56452	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56453	Yes, interestingly, we entered into a sado-maz debate, it was not intentional, but since your colleague's comment was so wrong, incorrect and extremely confusing for those who listen, this thesis of sadistic efforts was in the same tone missed, incorrect, guilty, and I don't know how you were at all, what logical considerations you could come to such a conclusion, but let's just say that it was ether so that the ether would leave it all through itself. It is a very simple logic, the European Medicines Agency approves vaccines, protects all citizens and all EU members, which means that for any side effects, manufacturers, and not the state. If you want to roar somewhere and take responsibility for yourself and have a problem with something that the experts have not approved, then you are not very experienced in the approval of medicines or vaccines. We stick to the safety of our citizens' health.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56454	Thank you very much. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Selak Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56455	Art. 238, we did not enter the sado-mazo debate, which is a very distasteful observation, but you mentioned that HDZ has masochistic tendencies, and I believe you can explain that, too. Furthermore, if you are interested in a concrete argument, so ask some Croatian citizens how many they want to be vaccinated after you as a government should have had the responsibility for this process, you have transferred to entrepreneurs who should blackmail your workers.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56456	My colleague Selak Rasudiæ, you get a warning, you know very well that this is not a breach of the Rules of Procedure but a replica. Let's move on, now it's time for your colleague, Mrak-Taritash, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56457	Thank you very much, esteemed president of HS, the Honorable Prime Minister. Croatia is a small country. One of our chances is to actively and permanently advocate European unity, liberal democracy, respect for human, civil rights and freedoms. On page 17 of your Report, you mentioned the problem of Hungary, namely Prime Minister Orban towards liberal democracy and human rights. At that dinner you mentioned, something else happened. 16 prime ministers signed an open letter, 17 Prime Minister Kurz later joined the letter. Among other things, out of those 17 is a third of your Pučka party. You decided not to support that initiative, or you did not sign that letter. I wonder why.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56458	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56459	Thank you very much. That letter has nothing to do with dinner. The letter was a political signal from some countries for some of their reasons. We made it clear to the political position that any, against any discrimination, against any minority, you heard, I believe, very well my position on it at the last cabinet session, I suppose you followed it because it was public, so the matter is clear to you. We do not have to join in someone's letters, primarily politically motivated, in order to make our position clear. We can speak of this articulatedly, publicly on behalf of Croatia, taking care of rights and human rights and minority rights and our relations with neighbouring countries. There were a lot of countries that didn't want to join it, each for their own reasons, and I'm sure everyone against discrimination, if you followed it closely, you'd see.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56460	Comrade Majda Buric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56461	Thank you, Mr. President-in-Office of the Republic of Croatia, it is clear that you have just fought stately for the Croatian national interests, but also for the interests of other EU Member States, which had a problem with the lack of vaccines in early 2020. Following your intervention at the Council of Europe in 2020, the criteria for the distribution of 10 million doses of Pfizer were agreed, according to the principle of 30% for those Member States with a shortage of vaccines and 70% relative to the number of inhabitants of a Member State. In any case, you fought for a solid approach and that's why, that's when 747 thousand kuna arrived in Croatia, 747 thousand doses of vaccines, and as you said in the report, so far almost 4 million. [[Intruder:]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56462	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Before the answer, we have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56463	I already did this once, and I didn't think I'd have to do it anymore. He's been injured. 238, insult and disdain of MPs. This question is so obviously ordered and so dissuasive that it offends my intellectual human dignity and dignity and me as a representative and this House, we are here to discuss serious matters, not to say praises to the great leader without any concrete content and argument and please give counsel a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56464	No, I'm going to give you a heads-up because this isn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure and you won't be estimating the tone and content of someone's question. So this was neither offensive, the MP has the right to ask a question that praises the Government, as you ask questions and find government, so there's no difference here in what seems to be and everything is in line with the Rules of Procedure, so I have to give you a warning. Comrade Selak Rasudic, please. No, you're not before your colleague, Selak Rasdic. You gave up? ... Yeah, you're on to me then, okay. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here's my colleague, Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56465	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll risk my warning, Art. 238, educational. In response to Mrs. McNally's response. You told Karolini Vidovic Kristo or one of the MPs, you said you didn't know what it was like in the Yugoslav Parliament, this is how it was in the Yugoslav Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56466	Well, you probably remember that well because you're followers of the party that went there and defended that system that existed back then. Comrade Selak Rasudic, please. You just reminded us of your predecessors, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56467	Art. In 238, due to the fact that counterpart Bauk did not receive a warning, we could be concerned that we have a single party in the assembly as it was in Yugoslavia, not the real opposition. But, well, I didn't want to look back on it, I wanted to look back on the fact that the Croatian public is being deceived because as this report shows, the president of the government is primarily in the role of congratulators in this council, so let's say congratulations to the UN Secretary-General for achieving gender balance within his team, etc., these are his contributions.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56468	Thank you very much. Comrade Selak Rasudiæ, I must now give you a second warning because you have made this conscious. I'm asking you not to do that. I see a colleague of the Hood has come forward, and I'm going to give him my word now, but now we're back in phase to abuse the breach of the Rules of Procedure to replicate. I invite you to return to the debate and take a step. Here you go, Comrade Capula.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56469	Dear Mr. President, so what Col. Rasdic noticed was that the breach of the Rules of Procedure was not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, but what he indicated as part of the infringement of the Rules of Procedure. So, the character of the question raised here to the president of the Croatian government, and this last question, even though you are asking colleague Selak Rasdic, and you are replicating her during the debate, but she does not fall back from the Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56470	Thank you. A fellow Hood and you get a warning, this was also some kind of replica. Now my colleague Rasdic again. Uh, you're putting me in a position to share warnings right now, and I wouldn't want that because it's turning into a completely unnecessary and pointless debate that has nothing to do with it at all. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56471	Don't reevaluate the president of the assembly, you don't know what I'm going to say, the 238th reprimand. Comrade Kapulica, you have shown yourself as a applause in HDZ because you have pointed out how many seconds, exactly one minute and a second, the applause of Mr Plenkovic and Mr Stier, so that you are certainly competent to assess the level of licking that colleague showed this question, and so much love I have never shown in the replica of Representative Selak Rasudiæ how much representation she has now shown to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56472	What you'd say is a little fun is never a waste, let's stop now. Uh, now I don't know if I should give you a warning to be 2:2 with representative Selak Rasudiæ or to remain 2-1, so let's stay 2-1, here it is. Let's move on, Comrade Pavić, go ahead. No, sorry, exactly, we're left with the Prime Minister in response to the replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56473	Thank you. I believe that only Mr. Bouric's replicas remember Mr. Bauk and the marriage couple Rasdic, so I will thank Mr. Bauk first of all for his contacts with... Mr. Burl, I'd like to thank Mrs. Burl. and Mr. Rasputić, who has been intensively negotiating with the other heads of state and government and has provided Croatia 700,000 doses of accelerant and thanks to the couple Rasdic, thanks to Mr. Bauku Croatia today has 3 million and 800 thousand doses, thanks to this, we have provided all the preconditions for the tourist season, especially thanks to the support given to Croatian workers and enabled Croatian employers to overcome this major crisis without sadomasochism and thanks to them today we have neither a social fracture nor unemployment. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56474	Thank you, pretty Prime Minister. Now again we have injuries to the Rules of Procedure, several of them, first I saw my colleague Selak Rasdic again, please. You've reached out to counterpart Selak Rasudic for the violation of the Rules of Procedure, please. ... No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] Well, then, here's a colleague of the Grmoy. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56475	Injury. 238. Dear Prime Minister, you gave no one yours. So, the support you boast about is money from Croatian entrepreneurs and craftsmen, you don't share anything of your own, you don't share anything of your own, you learn it already.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56476	Comrade Grmoy, you're getting a warning, this is a replica. It doesn't, it doesn't... Please, please, Prime Minister. ... [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] Please, please, Prime Minister. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] Let's go, let's go, let's go... Please, Prime Minister, I can't give you a warning, let's not disrupt the debate. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] You've received a warning from your colleague, Mr. Grmoi, and now there's a colleague, Selak Rasdic, here you are. I'm just warning you, you've already got two warnings, this third one can lead to you being left speechless until the end of the debate. ... Okay, so we're pulling back, do we have any other injuries to the Rules of Procedure, maybe I haven't seen? [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] No, okay. Comrade Marko Pavić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56477	Thank you very much. The Honorable Prime Minister, the Honorable President of the Assembly. Well, it seems that the opposition in this crisis is all considered normal, if only the government had not contributed at all, and it would have returned to the report and little and something that may not have been so detailed in the report, which is Porto Summit. At the Porto Summit, you also gave successes to your government, where you clearly said that we have invested €11.7 billion in saving 700,000 jobs. How big is this enough to say that in the first term of your government's employment, 8 billion kuna was given, so this is more than the entire first term, which is twice as much as the Milanovic government. Also at the Porto Summit, there was also an emphasis on the European pillar of social rights and a report was presented for the guarantee for children, so that you might also say something, but there wouldn't have been all this if it hadn't been for the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56478	Thank you very much. Here you are, a violation of the Rules of Procedure of my colleague Grumo, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56479	Thank you. I would just like to warn this one that two MPs seem to be running a dead race that will complement the prime minister more and that they are actually remembering that the MPs who should articulate citizens' problems here are not raising and dragging themselves to the prime minister, so counterpart Pavic thinks of you and colleague Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56480	Comrade Grmoi, you get a second warning and I ask you, colleagues from the opposition, especially now you, colleagues and colleagues from the Most, are right advocates, especially those who make up the ruling majority to in their questions and praise the Government, I don't know why this is a problem because they've got elections, they're most and most citizens support exactly what they're saying. So if you don't like it, if it gets on your nerves, if you call it these names how you do it, that's your problem. This is not correct and is not in the spirit of parliamentaryism because I do not expect you to praise the government, as I do not expect them to criticise the government and ask you to adapt to it. Let's move on, colleague Pavić, to the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56481	Thank you very much. He's been injured. 238, and a colleague of Grmo If there's anything I can talk about, I can speak freely in this High House. [[Intruder: I gave a warning.]] If we haven't had a curfew, if we've saved 700 thousand jobs, if today unemployment is 150,000, if the season is going well, if we're providing all these criteria, then yes, it's time to thank and praise someone who worked on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56482	So, fellow Pavić, as well as his colleagues, Grumoji and you are being warned because you have replicated, not given a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Let's move on, let's move on, let's move on. Let's move on. Let's move on. You're not, uh, the answer again, I'm sorry, colleague Pavic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56483	These interchanges are losing focus on replicas. So nothing, here, MP Pavić, I will once again thank the representatives of Mosto and the SDP who have done everything in the last year and a half to preserve jobs, who have made all those quick, generous decisions, saved employers, saved the sectors, paid fixed costs, paid the workers, avoided the explosion of unemployment, there were talks about some 400 thousand unemployed. From the SDP ranks a year ago and a few days ago and this synergy of the Most and SDP, so the bridge is now growing with this extreme tolerance towards minorities, which is particularly demonstrated by the representative of Grmoje, closer to the left, it is important that Croatian voters know that because such love does not have to be spoken, it is seen... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56484	Comrade Grmo, here you go. What? Stanku? Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56485	So I'm looking for a break and the Mosta Club to consult on the hypocritical views of Prime Minister Plenkovic, who is my advocate for raising children in accordance with their beliefs to call the Hague attitudes towards minorities, while at the same time not being allowed and acting as a little mouse towards Viktor Orban, whose laws are much stricter than those of the LGBT community, must not be called such and must not be characterized as my views that parents are raising their children in accordance with their own beliefs. This shows that, in fact, in Croatia, he plays the big fairy and that there is a little mouse in Brussels, but we all know it very well. Mr. Plenkovic, I will personally protect the right of parents to raise children according to their beliefs. I have never given a single Hague statement in my actions towards minorities, and the only one who has been harassing is you who have related threats to my family and thus sent a message to those who threaten my family to continue to do so, which they do. Nevertheless, I will not hesitate or be intimidated, I remain firm with those beliefs that I have always represented, and I will never loathe at anyone. I'll leave that to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56486	Okay. I approve of the break, but according to 293.b we will not go on a break but we will proceed immediately with the work and please, my colleague Grumoja, when you say that you are still in force, you have presented several very offensive formulations to the Prime Minister. I'm not going to warn you because you'd lose your right to speak now and then you'd say I'm choking freedom of speech, but I'm asking you to choose words when you speak. Let's move on, let's move on, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go,
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56487	Dear Prime Minister, unlike the Minister of Health Beroš, who filed a report here a few days ago on the last half of the year of work of the Staff, chaired not by an expert in epidemiology but by... Europe, Minister Beros didn't answer our questions at all, he didn't use the business opportunity to answer, either on behalf of the clubs that were, or on individual debates, I hope that today you will stay here until the end of the debate because these are important things that you participated in and that you will hear what we have to say. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I will give a more comprehensive discriminatory and content analysis on behalf of the club and in individual speech, but what I want to ask you now concerns some euphemisms used at European level. In fact, the fact that 77 million vaccines this spring were produced in the EU went outside the EU at the same time, while keeping countries outside the EU that produced vaccines, which had to deliver, Ursula von der Leyen called EU openness as opposed to others, and the fact that there will be 100 million, at least, extra vaccines, shows as altruism towards other countries. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] How are we going to take care of extra vaccines? , what are our capacities and whether we will have someone to donate and who will answer [[Thank you very much.]] for the wrong.../incomprehensible/... [[Intruder: Thank you very much, dear colleague Rasdic, please.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56488	Let's go, answer it, Prime Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56489	Thank you very much, I see the president of HS that you're tolerance per minute, and I can see by the qualifications of these Bridges, but that's good, let people hear who they are and what they are. As for the orders and donations of vaccines, the EU, countries that have such a pharmaceutical industry in which they produce vaccines, it is true that they produce vaccines thanks to why we get them, and they also export them. The export decision was conscious and intentional. The pandemic is called a pandemic because it's global and to stop it, we need to help those parts of the world that have neither such a farm industry nor production nor the possibility of getting the vaccine and so we're going to do it. As for donations, I said in the opening speech you may have missed it, we have already donated 390,000 doses and we will donate more, first of all we will donate BiH because we want our and our countrymen to be Croats and all the other vaccines and we will bring it knowingly and deliberately.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56490	Thank you very much. Comrade Baricevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56491	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Your Honor, Prime Minister. The Croatian government has provided support as you yourself have said for 700,000 workers and 120,000 employers, so it has helped the economy of here already as you have said 12.7 billion kuna. How can you introduce us today to join this problem and other EU members, do they have similar support for the economy for their citizens? And certainly when you talk about the advantages of EU membership, you should once again welcome your government's excellent success and incomparably the greatest success and your negotiations when we remember in July 2020 for the Multi-annual Financial Framework that the Croatian state will receive 230 billion kuna in total in 10 years. Does that mean we can build 57 Peles bridges?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56492	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56493	Thank you very much, Mr. Baricevic. I've expected at least a few of these injuries from the Rules of Procedure, but I'm guessing these truth fighters are tired or you've been given a discount on this line from the National Assembly in Belgrade, Mr. Bauk. As for the funds, so we made a step that was unprecedented, we gave the money to pay our workers and employers because we thought they weren't guilty of the pandemic and that the state had to fulfill that role it has, only the state has this kind of power. Other countries have done so, but out of contact with colleagues when I look at it comparatively, there is little one who has done it in such an effective way as we and on that side can be satisfied. As far as economic recovery and resilience funds are concerned, all assumptions are that this decade is a decade of development and growth without precedent in Croatia. [[The President's intrusion: thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56494	Comrade Milanović litre, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56495	Thank you, Your Honor. The Honorable Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. The rule of law has been in place since 2017. at EU level, it has started to use as an instrument to intimidate Member States and their legitimately elected leadership. The latest mumblings about Slovenia on the same issue are just a continuation of EU policy towards their Member States. How in the report you have not stated, or have you cited, an apology in the case of Turkey and... and Malia, I am interested in what is your attitude towards us friendly countries and the peoples of Hungary and Poland, and now we see the pressures on Slovenia about the rule of law and what is the position of the Government of the Republic of Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56496	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56497	Dear Representative Milanovic litre. It is not the concept of rule of law introduced to intimidate the Member States, so this is the first one. Both Slovenia and Hungary and Poland supported the concept of rule of law, it is one initiative that started in 2014, ask a little former representative, Ružo Tomasic, she will remember the report by Louis Michel, who will remember then Commissioner Vivian Reding and the activities of the then Commission and then convened by the European Parliament that launched the topic. It has evolved into a series of aspects, and today it is one of the elements that attaches funds from the eu instrument to the next generation by respecting the fundamental principles of rule of law. If there are any obstacles somewhere, there are ways to address this, the European Commission is the guardian of the treaty and has the task of watching whether the values we all agreed on are respected in a country. On this side Croatia participates in all debates at the Council which so far have not been spoken anywhere in two countries in Slovenia, and Slovenia is more than a friendly country to us. [[The President's intrusion: thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56498	Thank you very much. My colleague, BArtulica, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56499	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. Prime Minister. I'll look back on the pandemic situation, I think Croatian scientist Gordan Lauc is right when he says it's becoming more and more a political issue and less a health issue. I think that connecting this support to people with vaccination creates artificial divisions, I hope you can track me while you're on your cell phone, creating artificial divisions in society. We have not seen that public sector employees are something in a significant number of vaccinations, but I must also ask on behalf of many concerned parents a question. Can you guarantee today that children who are not vaccinations will be able to get into student benches in the fall? This announcement of mass vaccination of children did not echo well with many, so I wonder if you can guarantee it today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56500	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56501	As far as vaccination and responsibilities are concerned, the responsibility for vaccination is on every Croatian citizen, at the government headquarters of the Ministry of Health, in public health services, in family medicine and in my view this debate in which we have a pandemic that has taken 4 million lives around the world, so the whole of Croatia has disappeared, in a situation where more than 8,200 people have died in Croatia and where we have costs of 34 billion kuna so far, where we have vaccines in abundance, where everyone can be vaccinated is almost surreal. And that's why it would be good for countries that expect big revenues from tourism to want a strong economy, want employment, everyone wants salaries, pensions, they want everything to work to make a small contribution. No one can say today that they don't know that there's a covid-19 and everything is done. If there are people who don't believe it, it's one thing, and as far as children's decisions are concerned, it's going to be a challenge, as all decisions so far have been made with a course of political leadership. And taking responsibility, but we can't. [[The President's intrusion: thank you.]] It's got to be a little help for people. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56502	Comrade Stier, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56503	Thank you, Prime Minister. I would return to this report, specifically to dialogue with Turkey because this is an important geopolitical issue, as you said because of migration, of course because of the security of the Mediterranean, perhaps the European public is also engaged in Turkey's role in Libya and the Middle East, this is particularly important to Italy and France, and for us, the role of Turkey and BiH, which has an impact on Bosniaks, is particularly important. Of course, Europe needs to co-operate with Turkey because of all these issues, and on the other hand, Turkey needs Europe's cooperation, in this context, of course, Croatia. We have seen that the European Council has also embarked on modernising the customs union with Turkey. In this context, how do you view the future dynamics of relations with Turkey?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56504	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56505	Thank you very much. Turkey is a huge country, an influential country, our NATO ally, the country Croatia has particularly close relations with, they are related to political relations during the 1990s, especially joint efforts for peace above all and stability in BiH, and we are constantly stressing that. This is well known to all our partners within the EU and we have excellent dialogue with the Turkish president, with Turkish authorities. Turkey donated generous funds after the earthquake in Croatia, especially in Banovina, and their minister, Cavusoglu, was here. As far as Turkey's role is concerned, we look at it except for economic and political relations, and in a way that is very important for us to respect agreements between the EU and Turkey when it comes to migrants, when it comes to refugees, we do not want new migrant waves, we want the EU to help Turkey in the process in which it hosts almost 5 million people outside of its own countries, outside of our homes, and that on this basis we build relations of greater trust than in the past few years, I think of the EU.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56506	Thank you very much. Injury of the Rules of Procedure? Comrade Vrkljan, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56507	Mr. Prime Minister, I understand that the headquarters is briefing you, but we have long concluded that the headquarters is a political body that has little to do with the profession, and the basis of that... Don't throw it at me on the side. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] Mr. President of the Assembly, please ask Mr. Pavic, the parliamentary representative that while I'm saying he's not throwing it at me, he's letting me ask the question to the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56508	Comrade Vrkljan, colleague Vrkljan, you were looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56509	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, 238.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56510	Then explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure. So far you haven't been able to explain any of this, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56511	You as president of the assembly need to let me finish, so if you...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56512	Come on, please finish, don't tell me what I have to say, and I don't have to because you're clearly breaking the Rules of Procedure, please finish, you've got 10 seconds left.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56513	So, you as president of the assembly have to let me tell you where the breach of the Rules of Procedure is...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56514	Here, say it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56515	...if I didn't, if I didn't, then you need to warn me and give me a warning, not while I'm talking and not interrupting my speech.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56516	Can you tell me where the breach of the Rules of Procedure is?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56517	Mr. President of the Assembly, lower your voice and speak to me as president... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56518	Comrade Vrkljan, you have 10 seconds left, please state where is the breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56519	I ask the prime minister that the information he receives from the headquarters that says there are 8,000 dead of covids in Croatia does not correspond to the truth because Croatia had 2,000 deaths more than last year compared to the year of covids.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56520	Now sit down and get a warning. This is a classic... Please sit down, Representative Vrkljan. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Please sit down.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56521	Your communication.../Speaker disabled/...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56522	Please sit down. This is no violation of the Rules of Procedure, this is a simple replica. We have seen this from the very beginning and do not abuse the Rules of Procedure and all these people sitting here making fools because there are rules that we all have to play by. You get a warning, and you'll get a third one now and you won't have the right to speak anymore. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56523	Mr. Speaker of the Assembly, paragraph 238, the violation of the Rules of Procedure in which you are obliged to preserve the dignity of the Assembly and our parliamentary representatives and the relationship between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Assembly. You can't say that I'm talking nonsense here and that the MPs from your ruling furniture anything I insult with my statements. So pick your words when you talk to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56524	Please sit down, now you've got a third warning and you no longer have the right to speak on this subject, and we move on, now it's time for fellow Glavasevic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56525	Thank you, Mr. President. ... On June 24th and 25th, the informal work dinner mentioned by counterpart Mrak-Taritash was held. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Mr. Prime Minister, I'm curious, so at that dinner Charles Michel initiated a debate on homophobic laws in Hungary. I wonder if you participated in this debate, and if so, what attitudes did you communicate there? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56526	Before we answer, we have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Excuse me, MP Vidovic Kristo, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56527	Yes, previously mentioned article. 47th and 2338th, but in connection with now giving notice to a colleague, I ask you to withdraw it, given that he was interrupted in his statement of injury to the Rules of Procedure, and you had previously several cases of violations of the Rules of Procedure where you did not give notice, and here it would really be fair of you that because of this intrusion into the word where he could not say it to the end, you withdraw that decision. I think most in the assembly will agree.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56528	No, I'm not gonna withdraw the breach of the Rules of Procedure because it was obvious and intentional, so this wasn't about anything that was borderline. Here's a colleague of Vrkljan's replicated, you've all heard he's replicated, I've warned him not to do it, he hasn't given up, he's done it again, so he's responsible for what he's got inability to speak on this wheel. And as a legal remedy, it is for you to address the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system which will then assess whether I was right or a colleague of Vrkljan or you now with your consideration. Let's move on, colleague Peric, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56529	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56530	We have, again, the Prime Minister's reply, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56531	Thank you very much. It's a great distraction for this breach of the Rules of Procedure as an institute. It's her only message, especially today, given the content of these injuries. Dear Representative Glavasevic, I said my position publicly, I said it in Brussels, I said it at the government, I didn't speak on purpose at that dinner, only a few colleagues spoke. The main theme was launched not by Charles Michel, but by Gzavia Bethel, Luxembourg's prime minister. He proposed that the President of the European Council be discussed. Orban talked about what laws it is, the conclusion is clear, the European Commission's task is to review this legislation, see what it is worth, which is not worth, if something is not worth taking appropriate steps and points. Everything else was more a media echo than a real, real echo of what was said there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56532	Comrade Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56533	Thank you very much, esteemed President HS, the Honorable Prime Minister. So many colleagues seem to be downplaying all those problems and challenges that you as a government and all together are going through the pandemic, through the economic crisis, through demographic challenges, through everything that happens with migration, and I really don't understand that they don't see how much effort exactly in relation to the budget that was stabilised in the previous period, which actually created the preconditions that the state can withstand all this until other means and other sources come and I really don't know how they don't see it then, here today is announced that 6,000 kuna is the daily cost of a patient being treated by covides, and then I don't know what else they expect from these and such persons.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56534	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56535	Okay. Thank you, well-respected representative Peric. Well, I think that's because we should thank the SDP and the MOST first and foremost for stepping up towards the preservation of jobs, according to financial stability, the reputation in the financial markets, the retention of the investment credit rating, the rise of the average salary above 7,000 kuna and, above all, 25 billion euros available for the next 10 years. Since their role, apart from obtaining sufficient amounts of vaccines, was epochal in all these processes, it is also felt in public change studies, and then polls in the 5th year of our government's term were such that we have about 30%, and they have as much as people appreciate their contribution to financial stability, economic recovery, job conservation, economic growth, the raising of average salaries and the provision of funds for future development of the Croatian economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56536	Comrade Mlinarić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56537	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Prime Minister, the European Council also discusses enlargement to the EU. Please tell me about the Republic of Serbia which wants to enter all the forces, which is legitimate, which you have taken on the subject of campers who were in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and in Chapter 23 of their Justice has been introduced to pay for 20,000 people who have spent on their territory unlawfully this unlawfully, in fact, tell me what you have done as prime minister of the Croatian state, and now this Civil Victims Act of War which I think that account should be laid out to the Republic of Serbia for war damages, for civil war victims and for all other war damages that occurred in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56538	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56539	As for Serbia and any other country that is on its way to the EU and has that ambition, it is our principle position to support all these efforts, of course, on the condition that the criteria are met. As for Chapter 23 concerning the judiciary and fundamental rights, within which all of them can say the residual issues of the time of the aggression of the Serbian Milosevic regime in Croatia, which includes the issue of campers, our government is talking, and the Croatian Defence Minister and Minister of Interior and the Minister of Justice with the campers' associations. I somehow assume that you have this information and that you know how much concrete activities have been undertaken both in terms of legal assistance and in terms of the exercise of their rights. We will keep all these topics high on the agenda, raise them, and when these topics are on, one of the debates in relation to Chapter 23 of Croatia in different EU bodies will very clearly articulate.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56540	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56541	Thank you very much, President, 238. I just have to answer for all the Croatian public, that what the Ministry of Defense is doing to get the campers to sue the Republic of Serbia with private lawsuits, that's a disgrace to this country. They gave 5 million kunas to associations to sue the Republic of Serbia on their own. I ask you what you as a government have done, what do you as a prime minister who has connections there and can't be challenged by anyone, what have you done for these people?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56542	Comrade Mlinarić, you know very well that what you have done has nothing to do with the violation of the Rules of Procedure, that this is a replica and that is why the Rules of Procedure has been deliberately violated again, and that is why you are being warned. Let's move on now, fellow Shimičević, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56543	I would like to thank President HS, the esteemed Prime Minister of Croatia. The fact is that after the Homeland War this is the most difficult period for our country, earthquake and covid and for you as president of the Croatian government this is not the happiest time, but it can also be loved or not loved, but it cannot be disputed that you have made the moves that you have made that you have done a great thing, which is that you have actually made it impossible for social unrest or you have made it possible for our Croatian citizens to live well despite this pandemic and crisis. The fact is that we invested 45 billion kunas and now if I'm saying it from this place it doesn't seem anything, but what my colleague just said we could connect all the islands on the Croatian Adriatic without people seeing it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56544	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56545	Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56546	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56547	Thank you very much Mr. Simičević, it is not about whether anyone loves or dislikes you, it is about doing the job we have been chosen for, for which we have received trust, the best we can do, the best we know, if we look back at you now for the last year and a half days, for sure, there have been some mistakes and perhaps misjudges, especially in carrying out a situation that none of us have had such techniques for crisis management as the pandemic of these proportions, but when I look at the economy and when I look at employment, when I look at growth, when I look at the assumptions for development, I think that we have done everything we could and that in the year the biggest crisis we have provided the most money for Croatian economic development in the future and for the fact is the best, and the achievement of the structural goals I've talked about this report, which is also the Schengen and the euro area and the multi-purpose combating aircraft and modern sovereignty of Croatia's bridge. So we'll continue in that direction, who loves us, loves us He who doesn't love us won't love us. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56548	Comrade Raukar-Gamulin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56549	I would like to thank Mr. President of the Parliament, Your Honor, the Prime Minister. Yours, i.e. HDZ's policy in just the last month has suffered, I would say, 3 defeats on the European stage. I think, though you are in the EU parliament, your MPs have been overvoted, in the so-called The case of Matic's report, then, was rejected to you by amendments which, arguing that you were taking care of Croats in BiH, tried to actually reverse the EU's resolution on BiH, and finally, regardless of dinner, I would not now like to have dinner, but you have left clear and loudly condemning the new attempt of Orban's destabilisation of the EU through the experience of the LGBT community, although at home, here you have clearly condemned some attempts to copy Orban's homophobia. So, even though you're part of most of the EU, You're staying in the minority, so I'd like to ask you for an explanation. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] those completely wrong decisions. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56550	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56551	Thank you, beautiful representative Raukar-Gamulin, I did not know that you are an expert in international politics, but I see that you will have to make much, much progress in this area to understand what is happening at all, let alone make such a fuss about the defeats of the government policy or HDZ policy. So first, the public should know that "green" in the EU Parliament, and you here declare yourselves "green", were against mentioning Croats as constituent people, as well as, except for our representative of the SDP and socialists in the EU parliament and liberals, and that they hear Croats in BiH, green liberals and socialists do not want to mention Croats as a constituent and equal people. It's your only truth, not our loss. As far as relations with minorities are concerned, I would like some others to articulate such clear and firm attitudes in minorities, even sexually, as I do as prime minister, as regards the appeal of conscience, that is what our MPs have said, it is no defeat but a different world view. to sensitive questions. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56552	Comrade Nadj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56553	I thank the president of HS, the esteemed Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, you said that the government is now turning to create jobs after the preservation of jobs, so I want to know which of yours, as Governments, will be the first move to create jobs in the Sisak-Moslavina County, which is affected by these devastating earthquakes because we see that the restoration in the Sisak area, Petrinja area, the Gline is taking a snail step, but if we don't create jobs, that area will be left without a working-age population to move out. So what's your first move? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56554	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56555	Thank you very much, Mr. Nadj. As regards reconstruction, and I will repeat, therefore, the elections that we have provided, whether it be a European Solidarity Fund, a total of a billion euros for Zagreb and Banovina, loans from the World Bank, the European Investment Bank's funds, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the funds of the Council of the EU Development Bank, the mechanisms in which commercial banks in Croatia will be involved, will create a financial structure where we will finance everything provided for by the Law on Reconstruction adopted by this Assembly practically by consensus and allow for the reconstruction programme. As for Banovina, we, as you know, formed a working group whose co-chairs of Minister Tramišak, Minister Ćorić, they hired different experts from the academic community and experts and for regional development and assisted areas, and for Banovina and next week we expect a report to discuss how to revitalise the economy and start demographic trends in Banovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56556	Comrade Lalovec, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56557	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister. My question in your report is about the euro area. I strongly support it, I think it is clear to everyone now that Croatia has survived this crisis solely because it has had the opportunity to use all EU instruments and that is something that is a major contribution to Croatia's stability. What is now ahead of us are additional challenges, entering the euro area in 2023. The more I appeal, or the more I ask you to actually make one report on the state of the Croatian economy and Croatian citizens because surely they are strong, this, affected, with all the measures that I certainly support. Why? In order not to be so wounded in these areas, let's see what other measures we need to take and get into the euro, so that this shrimp of entering the euro is reduced. I think it is safe in the next year to see all certain risks and how the more painless and the more supportive the entry into the euro is because I think it is something that is certainly contributing to the improvement of the Croatian state, so I am in this division and I appeal to some.../incomprehensible/...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56558	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56559	Thank you very much, Mr. Lalovec. I am pleased that you support Croatia's membership in the euro area, I will emphasise once again, the ambition of the government, in line with the strategy adopted in May 2018, to meet all criteria in a very demanding, sophisticated financial and economic-reform and diplomatic process and to introduce the euro on 1 January 2023. So, it's very fast, it's for a year and political days, we're exactly on the 8th anniversary of membership, on July 1st of this year held the 9th session of the Euro Council, a consensus that exists among the players involved is high-level. I agree with you that we must further sensitize our citizens about the benefits, part of the high arguments on high levels of euroisation, savings, loans, trade exchanges, tourists, all of these are things that are known to a number of people, we need to get to know them further, and we will also organise a debate in HS on this subject in order to encourage awareness among our fellow citizens about a step that is practically very close. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56560	Comrade Ivanovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56561	Thank you very much, esteemed President of the Assembly, the esteemed Prime Minister of Croatia. I must ask Bauk and Rasputic if I may commend Plenkovic? That would be the summary of this debate we've been listening to so far. But I will dare, I will dare and say the following. When we had problems with the delivery of vaccines at the beginning of this year, and it was all over the EU, then individuals here advocated that we must make a pact with Russia that we must obtain a Russian vaccine, that we must be vaccinated. Now that we have 1.3 million doses of vaccines, they now tell you that people won't vaccinate because they don't trust the government. Given what is happening in Spain, Portugal, Cyprus, do you consider vaccination to be the only solution or final solution in the fight against covid?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56562	Thank you. Here's your answer. Comrade Bauk, please, let's let everyone ask the way they want. It's not you who decide what's right or wrong, and if it were, then you'd probably win the election, not the ones on this side. Here's the Prime Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56563	Thank you very much. My colleague Posavec the Sinner, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56564	I thank the Honorable President HS, Croatian Prime Minister. There are a lot of topics that we could discuss here today on your report, from Schengen, from EUR, from enlargement, from covid, a series of things that we could ask questions and get answers to. What I'm interested in is your view of Porto, of the situation that happened in Porta and the statement in Porta. For colleagues who may not know, there is one key sentence in the Port statement that says, I will quote that the European Pillar of Social Rights is a fundamental element of the EU's recovery. In my opinion, it's an extremely significant sentence that binds no matter what the recommendation is here. For example, in a guarantee for children, recommendations say we should reduce child poverty. We in Croatia are much more exposed to child poverty than are EU members. You have nine months to determine the coordinator and measures. Do you feel that even today as you did a year ago when you confirmed to me too many children institutionally organized on the Croatian table?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56565	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56566	To this last yes, to institutionalization absolutely. As for the Port summit, it was indeed a huge step, it was a step forward of all stakeholders together, the government, unions, employers and the issue of poverty reduction is crucial especially for countries that we can still say are hunting a step with an average of the development of those old Western EU members. And I have to admit that we Porto had a very serious experience, you hired a European system or a pillar of social rights from Goteborg a few years ago is a reference to everything we do, is part of the topics we discuss with trade unions and employers in Croatia. We organised a special GSV meeting on the subject, formed a group led by Minister Aladrovic on the implementation of conclusions and sports, and we will do everything we can to ensure that the lessons learned from this crisis always have a social dimension. I think that's the message we're standing around, some kind of brutal capitalism is no longer on the agenda anywhere, the social element is present all the time, and to us as the social market of the economy is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56567	Thank you very much. Now let's go to a colleague of Juričev-Martinchev's, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56568	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Honorable Prime Minister of the Croatian Government, as you said and as the report can read, welcomes the good progress made in the field of vaccination and overall improvement of the epidemiological situation, but stresses the need to continue with the vaccination efforts. We are in the course of the tourist season, we are proud to read last week that we already have 640,000 guests, which is 50% more than 2020, compared to the record 2019. On the other hand, however, we also read where the smallest fissure in the Republic of Croatia is. Among the five worst counties with the worst fissure are just 3 Dalmatians living off tourism. It seems to me like we forgot what happened to us in mid-August last year, which is happening to Portugal, Spain and so on, that Malta has 80% of the cleavage, as well as how to call our citizens, and I'm using this opportunity to warn.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56569	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56570	Well simply, especially in Dalmatian counties there are no tourists, no money, just because this second I don't know what else we can do and that someone becomes more aware of all the possible negative circumstances that this pandemic has brought, better solutions than vaccines there is, all kinds of epidemiological measures are certainly more unpleasant for each individual, for society, for the economy, for business, for transport, for school, for events, for culture, for sport, for whatever we want. I think we've learned so many lessons I have the impression that people are crying out to get back to the normal rhythm of life the simplest, fastest, most effective way to be vaccinated, the vaccines are a free state has secured them. Anyone who wants to be vaccinated and I only ask people to inform on credible sources of information, not on false, incorrect or manipulative.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56571	Comrade Bauk, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56572	Thank you, Mr. President. You have already explained this letter to us by 17 Member States against the Hungarian law, but one of your explanations still took my attention. I will quote "We are not the only ones, no Slavic country has joined this letter, there is a huge difference between the countries of Middle Eastern Europe on the one hand and Western Europe on the other," you said. So, 32 years after the fall of the Berlin Wall, he was raised so-called. Orban's wall in the heart of Europe, and 30 years after Yugoslavia's collapse, we have received a new Slavic association in the EU in the so-called "So-called European Union". the euroslavia, and while Slavena is in the EU, the Orabn is clearly in vain threatening both the abyss of hell and the fire of thunder over this. What you said further on these topics have been ideologically colored, in recent years lightning has led to dissociation, politicization, and everyone here is trying to pin it on their electoral body. Whose electoral body are you trying to reach out to because of these proorbanian views, the electoral body of the Homeland Movement, the Mosta or the sovereigns?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56573	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56574	You see, unlike the respected MP Bauk, from all of these you mentioned us, and now you are here in the group of these exclusive none, neither Mostov nor the Homeland Movement, nor yours and the difference of position exactly like this HDZ at the right centre of the party, which is precisely the ones behind which many members and members are gathered and who get the continued greatest support of the Croatian people in the elections, and therefore we have a government and a stable majority that will have three more years, and you will know how to live in the opposition, and you will ultimately try to put those who run these topics into the focus of world-wide ideological topics that, in my deep conviction, only share. We have no use for this debate, I would like to hear one of your leaders say what I said in the government when it comes to minority rights or sexual minorities. We don't have a problem with ourselves, we're never going to court anyone, we're not going to get blackmailed either. Whom, it's very important that you keep that in mind as well.../Speakers speak at the same time./... [[The President's intrusion: thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56575	Thank you very much. Comrade Sacic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56576	Your Honor. Prime Minister. Respecting what we have had to read and listen to in your report remains a question of an exceptional division in the Croatian society that overshadowed all of our traditional divisions of Ustashas and Partisans to Mayan communist, anti-communist, etc., this is now the topic of vaccination, not vaccination in which unvaccinated people occupy more than 56% of the current. Respecting the European Resolution this late in January that speaks of the non-responsibility of vaccinations and bans, in fact, in some way certain political pressures of all others on those who for various reasons do not want to be subject to this vaccine, are you communicating with our headquarters which is their responsibility, why are people in Croatia so untrustworthy and how to overcome it? What to do to ensure the freedom of all who That's what they're supposed to consume here. [[The President's intrusion: thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56577	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56578	Thank you very much, Mr. Sacic. Everyone in Croatia is free because they are free and there is no obligation because we are only 46%. If someone were forcing someone, then, like after, Bauk would know the welds of faith, we'd all be split up a long time ago and forget about the problem, but we're not in that system. No EU member state has opted for mandatory vaccination, neither will we, I can see that this is also being discussed, but we will not be safe. What we want is to encourage people to make that decision. Why is that? That's right, we live in communication-internet-net-net-netting time in a time where there are already generations of people who don't watch television, don't read the paper, they're only informed in their own silos, ecosystems that are rarely subject to false, false and incorrect information, and that's the problem. It's not just us, it's a global problem. I always believe in reason and the common sense of most Croatian citizens to protect themselves and others. [[The President's intrusion: thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56579	Thank you, Prime Minister, we no longer have a replica, so you can return to your post. And I'll call the committee's reporters, will they take your word for it? No, I don't. Then I open the debate, the first is the Club of Representatives of the Mosta and the Honorable Representative Selak Raspoudić and then a colleague of Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56580	So, the prime minister has raised the question here that this government has given us and then in this crisis he's listed all its successes, so I'm going to answer now by what this government has really given us in this crisis. 2,000 dead per million people in this crisis are among the worst in the world, when that information finally went public then it was said that people died with covid, not covid. When the interest in the vaccine was high and we were able to save lives with it, we were among those who were primarily at risk of the elderly. That's what this government gave us. We've been so successful in the vaccination campaign and there's so much trust in the work of headquarters that the split is now below average, and at the Ministry of Health, which at the source of all information is a fine decision only 30% of the workers if and so much this government has given us. We got really big money, but we got it because, by all economic parameters, we're standing far the worst in the EU, so because this government has put us in this situation, we need to be grateful that someone has decided to help us. It's like someone hit you in the middle of the forehead, and then thank you for having such a beautiful seam all over your face. And in the end, what did this government give us? In view of this pandemic, lies and delusions are primarily. For example, now the prime minister lied directly when he said that we were donating because we are so generous, we care about the pandemic, and at the same time at the government's session on July 1st, he said that we decided to donate because we have restrictions on the storage of doses of vaccines. So that's all this government gave us in this pandemic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56581	The Honorable representative Rasdic will continue on behalf of the Most Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56582	I call on all our citizens to go to the meeting pages.hr and read this report on the meetings of the European Council. The point that it would have to be manifested is Hegel, and here it really shows the essence of the problem that today is being tormented by the EU which is becoming an increasingly empty, bureaucratic structure, whose leaders are not only thinking but not speaking as humans but as machines. There are mixed feelings in reading this watch, this report. On the one hand, it's comical as if you're reading humorous images of party meetings in the Soviet Union or Mrs. Donjoy, and at the other point of view, there's a chill who controls our lives. The bureaucratic novel speaks phrases, I say as though automatics are discussing, and by the way, a little bit of Croatian rape. For example, I quote, the restrictions on the EU's internal borders and their impact on the functioning of the single market have caused the most attention in the debate because the challenged balance between caution and restrictions due to the rapid spread of new variants of the virus, etc., is challenging. The challenge used to be called cleavage in Croatian, and today all the challenges, problems and difficulties are no longer present but are crossed into challenges. So here's a big challenge I see the fact that these brains are not overrefinedly shaped in Croatian to receive content in the flat bureaucratic English and how primitive Calcs are transferred to that wooden language of Euroburtocrats in such reports. I further quote, on the European Commission's digital confirmations, the EC is working to develop a Gates solution that would allow, etc. They did not confirm Gajtvej's translation to Croatian, then they preferred to leave the entire text in Brussels, not English or Shakespeare or S. Elliot, but to create such language monsters in Croatian such as Gajteva's solutions, about instructive technologies that are also mentioned that I do not speak. Or here's another quote, it's important to address all the concerns regularly and do it correctly, says the report, so here I am also addressing my concern about language, but also the mental competences of people who translate and prepare for the debate of this report. I would then quote that it is necessary to work towards strengthening the EU's resilience and capacity. Here's another speech. On all sides of the shower challenges, so the only thing we have left is to strengthen our resistance. So if someone's getting ready for a Brussels career, everything's a challenge to what's bad, and resistance is stronger, that's, that's good. For the last 10 days, I've had a lot of challenges in my life, and I've had little resistance, so I'm sorry if I don't make myself clear in this criticism of Brussels' empty new speech. Let's get some content blanks. I quote, concerning the southern neighbourhood, High Representative Borrelli spoke about the dramatic situation in the countries in the area, referred to economic challenges and the impact of climate change, warning that they all have potential effects on the EU as well. It's a finished quote. Here again, Borrell has faced challenges, and climate change has become some kind of discriminatory vegetate which the Brussels chats have little to say about every topic, so it turns out there's something important they've said. As climate change has affected the challenges of the southern neighbourhood and how all of this can have, be careful, not the effects but the potential effects on the EU, it is absolutely unclear. Let's talk about logic. On the issue of a mechanism for approval or transparency of exports of vaccines from the EU von der Leyen said that it was exported from the EU, this is spring, so when the jag was behind the vaccine, 77 million vaccines according to 33 different third countries, which confirms the EU's openness to the world. This transparency is also an invitation for other countries that produce the vaccine to be opened as the EU. This does not confirm the EU's openness to the world, but the idiotism and inability of European structures to protect its citizens because in the first jag for vaccines they all managed to row them. In addition to the subject of the pandemic Covid-19 disease, the situation in Belarus was mentioned. As they speak for some reason in these reports instead of the usual name Belarus in Croatia, I don't know where that Belarus came from, here and Plenkovic mentions it. At the end of the party meetings at some old time when all the points end now the topic goes differently with the Soviet Union. The topic of Russia, which is briefly referred to, is now being left, saying Charles Michel only informed leaders of the content of the phone conversation with Russian President Vladimir Putin, and it is agreed that a strategic debate in Russia will take place at one of the next meetings. Other blanks and tautological statements were produced. For example, I quote, social dimension, social dialogue and the active involvement of social partners have always been at the heart of a highly competitive social market economy, and commitment to unity and solidarity has been confirmed, as well as ensuring equal opportunities for all. What was said here? We can, for example. Socially replaced by water, let's put "water" instead of social, so we'll have a water dimension, water dialogue and active involvement of water partners have always been at the heart of a highly competitive water economy or let's put a "rabbit", rabbit dimension, rabbit dialogue and active involvement of rabbit partners have always been at the heart of a highly competitive rabbit economy or punk or whatever you want. So do you see what we are talking about? Nothing. There is a sentence at the level of those who are pronounced Miss World, peace in the world and so on. Types, leaders have confirmed their commitment to reducing inequality, combating social exclusion and combating poverty and combating child poverty. It also means curbing poverty, so I guess there's still child poverty in the same sentence. As regards foreign policy, an important meeting was held in Brussels on 24 and 25 May. I quote, before the formal start of the meeting, the EU council members, as usual, were addressed by EU Parliament Speaker Sassoli and expressed satisfaction with progress in economic recovery. However, Europe is exposed to new threats and must speak with one strong voice. As an example of the latest challenge, he cited events in Belarus and the forced landing of a civilian aircraft by one of the EU member states, stressed that the EU's response must be strong, unique and rapid, and responsible for the incident, called and punished without hesitation. The EU must show that it is not a paper tiger, but that it acts firmly and resolutely in protecting its interests, Sassoli said. And what would you do, Sassoli? Did you die like a real tiger, so Lukashenko turned his tail? Or there's just two days of meowing in May and nobody else's doing anything. Why are you embarrassing yourself? Federica Mogherini would at least shed a tear at a press conference. You're not that. Then Sassoli called the situation with illegal migration to the Mediterranean, on the Western Balkan route and in the Italian and French Alps. In this regard, he stressed that the first and most important duty of saving lives was to save lives, I agree. It believes that humanitarian corridors should be established in cooperation with the UN High Representative for Refugees and a European resettlement and relocation system should be established. Look at this, he stressed that it is people who can make a significant contribution to the restoration of our societies affected by the pandemic and demographic downturn. Great examples of this contribution have been seen in Germany and Austria in recent days Resumption in free speech. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56583	Now, on behalf of the Center and GLAS Representatives Club, the honourable representative of Anka Mrak-Taritash will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56584	Thank you, well-respected vice president of HS, respected secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues. So, Prime Minister Plenkovic told us, the parliamentary representatives of the 17 pages of the EU Council's meetings, that's where he joined us, what he said to whom he meant by parliamentary representatives, from individual clubs, from individuals, from parties, and there he went, and we will discuss the report. Secretary of State, I guess they're going to make a little bit of a note, or they're going to transfer something, or they're going to say something, so it doesn't matter, we've done everything, we've satisfied the form, and the contents are somewhere else. In 26 places or 26 times, the word Covid is mentioned in this Report, which shows what we all know from everyday life, which is that the pandemic of Covida has completely taken over our lives, our institutions and the topics that we are dealing with at any level. Covid starts and ends every meeting. The problem is, it's taking too long right now. A year and a half of a completely abnormal life is too long for each of us individually, for our companies and for all of Croatia. The same goes for the EU, the Member States and all the people who live in them. On the other hand, the Covid crisis once again reminded us of the correct decision and the political consensus that was then reached around Croatia's entry into the EU. I am convinced that, otherwise, our lives, but in such situations in particular, would have been much more difficult if we had not achieved that goal and become an EU member. As a man, even just a yearly view of this report, the influence of Covid on the work of the EU council is immediately seen and that is something we are not happy about. As time goes by, I have to admit that we need to be more and more concerned. Each meeting is Covid, Covid, Covid, and then far nothing and then a brief discussion or mentioning with dinner all other topics, but there are also very important topics. Security and defence, Southern neighbourhood, Single Market, Industrial Policy, Digital Technology and Economy, Eastern Mediterranean, Russia Social issues [[Intruder: Fellows, we can...]] /Intruder: Please./ [[/Intruder: Can we, if necessary, conduct the talks, lead outside the assembly so that the respected representative Dark-Taritash can speak normally? Please.]] [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Can I? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Thank you very much. [[/Intruder: Be my guest.]] I've stopped at digital technologies and economics. Eastern Mediterranean, Russia, social issues, climate change, UK, Turkey, the Middle East, Africa, cybersecurity, all of these are some of the topics in this report that are extremely important and have fallen into another plan behind Covid. One of the topics mentioned only in passing is enlargement. We are in the Centre and GLAS Club permanently attached to the idea of EU enlargement, especially to countries in our immediate neighbourhood. One reason is the stability and prosperity of the Republic of Croatia itself which will certainly have better conditions and safer life, if surrounded by European countries, relatively developed institutions that have managed to integrate into the Union, but also because of the Union itself, we believe that enlargement policy is extremely important. It has long been one of the most successful parts of the EU's policy, the part where in practice EU fundamental values of peace, prosperity and functional institutions are expanding and strengthening. I must therefore admit that we are concerned that during the Portuguese Presidency, no accession negotiations with Albania and Northern Macedonia have been opened, especially because it seems that European capitals do not seem to have a clear strategy for further enlargement, how to unblock negotiations with Northern Macedonia, what approach to other candidate countries and potential candidates. At the same time, some other actors in the Balkans are strengthening and trying to boost their influence. One of these projects is Vucic's so-called "Vučić". mini Schengen. I would like to say to the Honorable Prime Minister, but I am doing this to him at a distance, what I expect Croatia to be a permanent and proactive player when it comes to enlargement. Croatian knowledge and experience, knowledge of the difficult process of accession on the one hand and understanding and closeness of countries in our neighbourhood on the other hand, are a good prerequisite for us to play a significant role in this important process which seems to be a slightly lost compass. We also expect our prime minister to do something about it at these meetings. One of the important topics in this report is our relations with the United States, without the intention of sounding political cheerleader, but the change in Washington from our perspective was an event with a potentially beneficial effect both on EU and US relations and global policy at all. President Biden is a rational political actor with great experience, including in our region. We hope that we have entered a time when the strategic partnership and friendship of the United States and Europe will flourish again. Especially happy when it comes to climate change, America's return to the Paris Agreement and the desire to be leader here. Of course, ambitious climate neutrality goals by 2050 are easy to ask, but it is a question of whether they will be possible to achieve them. It is simply important that European effects, despite their focus on covid, deal with issues such as social issues. If something unique and possibly crucial is Europe's contribution to global political and general culture, then it is a social state combined with liberal democracy. This is exactly the state that has allowed hundreds of millions of people to live in conditions of freedom and prosperity that are unprecedented in human history. That is why it is extremely important to shave on these topics further, to reduce inequality, to fight social exclusion, to combat poverty, to combat discrimination, to remove gender differences in employment, wages and pensions, to promote equality and justice for each individual in society, that is to say, and I have quoted it from the Prime Minister's report, and that is something that we must work on every day regardless of the current and hopefully the transient problems we face. What makes the EU and Europe is in political and then social and economic terms. That is why it concerns the data that has slipped slightly off the radar that youth unemployment in the Eurozone is still very high 17%. It is not good, it is not a good indicator and endangers fundamental European ideas because people who do not have a solution to existence are not in full sense free citizens can be excluded from social flows, dissatisfied and uninterested, and in many cases become easy targets for extreme political and social concepts that devour the very essence of liberal democracy and European integration. And in the end, as I have already set out in the replica of the Prime Minister, it is a short draft from a working dinner on page 17 of the report, mentioning the problem of Hungary, or the Prime Minister of Orban, towards liberal democracy and human rights. And in addition to this extremely formal and diplomatic neutral expected by the European Commission, which was written in the Prime Minister's report, something else happened that day. 16 EU prime ministers, 17, later signed by Mr Kurtz, signed an open letter, which although very wrapped and not mentioning anyone directly addressed the problem. Of these 17 signatories, one third are from the ranks of the European People's Party, including Mrs Angela Merkel, mentioned by our prime minister. Croatia has decided not to support the initiative and I am absolutely sure that the damage has been done. For a small country such as Croatia is the only chance that it is a permanent and active advocate of European unity, liberal democracy and respect for human and civil rights and freedoms. And Mr. Viktor Orban certainly isn't someone this country or anyone who leads it should be connected to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56585	The next will be the club of Croatian sovereigns, and time will be shared by respected representatives Milanović litre and Zekanovic, the first respected representative Milanović litre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56586	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I will take this opportunity to congratulate or wish Janez Janša the successful EU Council presidency for the next six months. The report by the Prime Minister, Mr Plenkovic, who is no longer with us today clearly has better things to do, is expected to be uninteresting and undefined in the manner of the vast majority of professional diplomat reports, which is understandable. Don't take it as a criticism even though it might be interpreted as that. The rule of law in the report of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia is mentioned only once in connection with Turkey since 2004. in the waiting room for entry into the EU, which is strange in view of the hack and pressure of blackmail that Member States regularly suffer because of the famous Articles 2 and 7. The Treaty on the EU on which the concept of rule of law and mechanisms available to the Council is weakly defined. The Commission for the Penalty of the so-called So-called Penalty. or those which should be equal to the Member States. We need to ask ourselves what is meant by the rule of law at EU level, i.e. Can the rule of law contain unambiguous elements if we take into account that each Member State is cultural, historical, secular and economically unique or different? The answer is certainly no. The rule of law has not clearly defined the conditions under which something is in accordance with or in conflict with the rule of law and is still subject to discussions in academic circles and international and national authorities of Member States. The rule of law slowly, but certainly grows into a fashionable saying and a political weapon used at the right time to criticise the legitimately elected representatives of the people for their policies that are not in line with the EU's federalisation agenda. The European Council, Parliament and the Commission must respect the national identities of Member States which are inseparably linked to their fundamental political and constitutional structures. Since 2017, the European Commission has wanted to deny Poland the right to vote since 2018, as well as to the neighbouring Hungary, and in recent months we can hear mumblings about Slovenia. In September 2020, The European Commission has presented the first annual report on the rule of law in Member States to analyse media pluralism and freedom, the state of justice, the fight against corruption and institutional issues. Among other things, the lack of freedom of the press shifts to Poland, Hungary and Slovenia. It is interesting that according to the index of freedom press by reporters without boarders in 2021. Slovenia best stands with 31.1 points, Croatia is behind it with 27.95, Poland 28.8, Hungary 31.76 but we can continue the discussion of freedom of the media in the next two points of today's agenda. Furthermore, they are being shifted to lack of judicial independence. Unfortunately for us, the judiciary in Croatia is all but independent, in fact it is quite the opposite of what Croatians and Croats know. Recent Eurobarometer surveys show that Croatia is at the back end of the perception of judicial independence within the EU. The fight against corruption is the next segment that stands out in the rule of law reports, and we have not brillianted in this segment, we are also at the beginning of the EU. And we could also discuss this in the next two points of today's agenda. It is interesting that by all these criteria we are nothing better, as much as we can say that we are much worse than Poland and Hungary and Slovenia. We must ask ourselves, then, how is it possible not to hear the criticism of the Government of Andrej Plenkovic by E's leadership? The answer is simple, HDZ, EPP, Green, Socialists and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, according to the sciences of the unearthed diplomatic schools, goes down the hair of the European leadership and does not oppose the increasing federalisation of the EU, and for all those who wish the EU as a community of equal Member States, the rule of law becomes a major mechanism and a weapon for blackmailing and discrediting the implementation of policies for which they are legitimately elected by their people. The EU is turning into a centralist bureaucratic supranational Federation, and the Prime Minister has the opportunity to be on the side of his people and preserve all freedoms and rights that have been hard acquired during the Homeland War.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56587	The next club of representatives, i.e. the same club of representatives, will only continue the respected representative Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56588	Today we have heard from the esteemed Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia that it is not desirable to enter worldly topics, and I will say that it is true and that man is different from all other living beings precisely because there is something else that animals and plants do not have, and that is a worldview, we have a soul, has some attitudes towards certain things around us because life is not only in itself, but what would be said but there is still that emotion, there is some belief, there is some lightscreen or ideology if you want to, and that is what is really the most important thing about every man. Today we have heard from colleagues from the left to talk about some fundamental European values, so I wonder what are the fundamental European values, which is what Europe is built on and what was the purpose of creating the EU at all or who created the EU? My colleague Glavasevic, if you didn't know the EU was creating three people, Alcide De Gasperi, Adenauer and Schuman and all three, I might have singled out Alcid De Gasperia, but all three were Christian Catholic even activists and were creating the idea of creating an EU was creating a Christian Europe on a stable Christian basis and values. And I am sure that the clues knew that the EU would take over a modern "progressive" of course LGBTQIA+ agenda in order to perhaps give up the creation of this European project. Today, the President of the Government has slipped away, I hope he's lost it, said European citizens, thank God at least for not having a category of European citizens as yet, is Europe not a state. There are EU citizens, therefore European citizens do not exist. Recently a few days ago, we Croatian sovereigns announced that we would probably start collecting signatures for the referendum in October to maintain and preserve our Croatian Kuna. We don't have much of a media support, but we're not gonna give up. Moreover, we will do everything possible to make Croatian citizens manifest themselves on this matter. The president of the government just said it's in art. 5. The EU accession Treaty clearly states that Croatia must take over the EUR. However, I am interested in how many Croatian citizens knew when they voted for the EU, those 60% and several percent, and the turnout was below 50%, how much did Croatia know would be obliged to introduce the EURo and what risks would Croatia take? I will be responsible for almost no one because it was not a topic in the EU accession campaign. It has been said exclusively that we will be able to travel freely, but in the end we cannot travel freely. We were threatened that the pensioners would lose their pensions. So these are the key things and these questions must be answered by the Croatian people, and they will give it and must be given in a referendum. I am pleased that Croatian MPs in the European Parliament have stopped against that famous Matic report on sexual and reproductive rights and women's health. And from this place, I will call once again to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, but also to all HDZ. Therefore, Croatian sovereigns put in the procedure a resolution that is identical to the resolution adopted by the Slovak Parliament, identical to that, under the principle of subsidiarity, health and education issues fall exclusively under the authority of each state's legislation. In a month and a half, you will have the opportunity of fellow HDZ colleagues and other colleagues, of course, to sign on that document to pass a resolution that was passed by the Slovak Parliament. Here's where I call you and challenge you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56589	Thank you very much. The following will be the HDZ Representatives' Club, and the respected representative Marko Pavić will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56590	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Parliament, Mr. President of the Government. So on behalf of the HDZ Club, we want to discuss and support this report, which covers 4 European Council meetings, 2 informal meetings at the top of the EU countries, and where we see that the topic of covid is the main topic that dominated all meetings. What is the value of being an EU member is enough to say that here is when we compare the crisis in 2008 and this crisis, since 2008 we have been over 10 years old. to recover, and from this crisis, we already have a 5.2% GDP growth, and these 47.5 billion kunas brought by the President of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, will be an additional 1.4 percentage points for GDP growth. When we talk about covid there are two components, one is a health security aspect and the other, of course, is economic. And we see that even at the beginning of the crisis, there was even some discrepancies in the EU countries, especially in the talks of the vaccine commission, the same question was set, as Prime Minister Plenkovic called in the report the abduction of vaccines, but today Croatia has 3.8 million doses available, 2.5 million doses have been used and 46.2% of the population has been vaccinated, 1.3 million doses are available and I call again on behalf of the HDZ Club and the personal name of the citizens to be vaccinated. It is the responsibility, responsibility of a small country, a tourist country where the government has provided sufficient amounts of vaccines and where it is the only way to overcome this crisis. The second component of the health crisis is the covid certificate. There was also a colleague, Zekanovic, who was now saying that he could not travel, on the contrary. Croatia first introduced a covid certificate into the EU. The regulation was adopted in time, we were the first state and we created and Prime Minister Plenkovic created a certain alliance among the countries that are close to us as early as 1.6, so that although the regulation predicted that the covid confirms that they were moving 1.7 weeks with the implementation of 8 weeks, I think 15 weeks, it gives the possibility that most of the countries and our close and emitting tourism markets would start at 1.6. So what we see now, and we see successful tourist weekends that both vaccination and covid certificates have created the possibility of the season being successful. But we can also see, for example, Portugal, Spain, Cyprus, how little it takes to put this season at risk. And I really call on all of our citizens once again to be vaccinated, the vaccine has more than enough. The second component of the covid crisis is naturally the economy. It was necessary to agree on a certain balance between the needs of health and the needs of the economy. I think we've been very successful here. Croatia had no curfew, Croatia had no closure in the way most member states had. Croatia is balancing between the needs of health, but protecting our citizens and protecting jobs. 700,000 jobs and 11.7 billion kunas invested in them are unprecedented. Only for comparison, so in the first term of Prime Minister Plenkovic's government, 8 billion kuna was invested in employment. We have also addressed the question of youth employment, we have reduced the unemployment rate to a historically low level, today 125,000 unemployed. In the government's term before, there were twice as many, so around 4 billion kunas invested in 4 years, now in a year and a half 11.7 billion kuna available for job rescue. All of this would not have been if it hadn't been for the EU, and all of it would not have been if the Croatian government had not known how to vote for the funds. When we talk about the economy, there wouldn't even be these 47.5 billion kunas that Ursula brought in if it wasn't for this crisis. But there wouldn't be so much more funding if the government hadn't successfully fought in Brussels for those funds. 6.3 billion euros in these 47,5 million kunas put us at the top of the EU 12% of GDP, the rest on average received 3.7%, so three and a half times we got more than the rest. When we add to this another EUR 14 billion of the multiannual financial framework that we have discussed recently here on boards on the days of European funds in the assembly and thank the government for the quality materials and presentations and that, although it was not an obligation of the government, we had the opportunity to discuss it before the documents went to Brussels, so when we sum up the national recovery programme, when we add up EUR 14 billion of the multi-annual financial framework, when we add that we still have EUR 5 billion to spend from this envelope, that is the amount that Gredana Peric also said, so we have over EUR 30 billion available for the next 10 years. These are unprecedented funds to be used to develop this country. We also showed in this financial period that we know, that we can do it and that we will do it in a good way. The projects from the National Recovery Programme and the resistance of a third go to direct support for our entrepreneurs, the good part goes to school reform, health care, we will go to full-time teaching, we will build schools, hospitals, kindergartens, and 12% are being restored from earthquakes. Once again, it is a pity that 4.5 billion euros came from the covid, but over 16 billion euros in damages that came from the earthquake. Both through the Solidarity Fund and through all EU mechanisms, we have shown that we know how to use these funds, but we have shown the value of EU membership. In addition to these topics, as I said, the covid crisis with two aspects was discussed, and of course the EUR where we entered the EREM 2 mechanism as Croatia 1.7 last year, but before that we were given confidence from the European Central Bank that in the biggest crisis when we needed EUR 2 billion, we deposited 15 billion kuna with them, they deposited us 2 billion euros. Therefore, the trust of financial institutions in the Croatian monetary and financial system is high, credit institutions raise credit ratings amid this crisis. So obviously something is going well, and no matter how much opposition it bothers us to say that about this pay phone. The European Council also offered a return to multilateralism. Meetings with US President Biden, UN Secretary-General, Prime Minister of India, showed just the return to the importance of multilatellarism, the return of importance, and the strengthening of the state and the role of the state, as has been shown in this covid crisis. And it certainly was welcomed to welcome the return of the United States to the table of the Paris Agreement, as China's announcements that by 2060 it would be climate neutral. Maybe something else that's not so much in the report pointed out, and that's Porto... Summit. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] After Gothenburg, where a European pillar of social rights is presented 20 principles that will be the key to EU solidarity, we have not forgotten that, and in a statement from the Porto Summit, the prime ministers supported the European pillar of social rights, it was also presented... a guarantee for each child, guaranteed by both a warm meal and access to education, health care, education in the EU, and successful employment measures have been presented. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] In accordance with the Prime Minister's priorities for next year's visa for the United States, or that there are no more, the Pelješki bridge that we see faster and faster each day, Schengen 2022, EUR 2023 and the arrival of the plane in 2024, and when we add up two mandates of this government, I think we will ensure both financial and monetary and health and all security for our citizens to stay and work in the Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56591	Thank you, too. Now let's go to the SDP Representatives' Club debate, dear colleague Peja Grbin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56592	I thank the esteemed Mr. President HS, Mr. Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, dear colleagues and colleagues. In his speech this morning, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia spoke about this point a lot, but a little more concrete. It's a great honor to connect the Republic of Croatia, and I think we're all happy about it, but it wasn't exactly the subject of the European Council or any of the other things you were talking about. And one thing that is questionable is whether it will be the subject of the European Council, which is very important for Croatia, because of its tourist orientation and the amount of money coming from that economic branch is the issue of Schengen. Mr. Prime Minister, you've talked a lot about Schengen, you've talked about wishes, you've talked about goals, but you haven't talked about reality. You have not informed us today and I ask you to exercise the right given to you by the Rules of Procedure to contact us after this debate and tell us what the views and views of other EU Member States deciding on Schengen are. Will there be expansion of Schengen and when, what is the position of other Member States? And I am saying this because of the following statement recently made by the Slovenian Interior Minister, Mr Aleš Hojs, which is particularly important in the light of the Slovenian Presidency. In particular, Minister Hojs says, Croatia does not seem to want to include the Schengen issue in the agenda if there is no agreement. If you put something on the agenda, and there's no support after that, it's even more embarrassing than not putting it on the agenda. What does this statement tell us? That there is a question whether, in the six months ahead of us, the issue of Croatia's entry into Schengen or the expansion of Schengen will be included in the agenda. Dear colleagues and colleagues, this is no longer a technical question. The Commission is already 2 years ago. If I am not mistaken, in 2019 she took the view that the technical assumptions of the entry of the Republic of Croatia into Schengen were fulfilled. What has been a technical issue for years, what the RS government has been working on for many years now has become a political issue, a political issue that requires consensus at EU level. And because this is a political issue, we need a political answer here. Is the agreement reached on the entry of the Republic of Croatia into Schengen, and as this agreement has not been reached which states and which is why it blocks the entry of the Republic of Croatia into Schengen and what are we doing as a state to remove these obstacles? This is what I was hoping for this morning in your opening statement and this is what it wasn't. Who stands between the Republic of Croatia and entering Schengen and what do we as a state do to remove these obstacles? I think this would be the most important thing you've said today, but unfortunately that answer has been denied. The next thing you were not too obvious about, and according to media reports, not only Croatian but European media was perhaps the most important point at the summit 10 days ago is the question of the Hungarian law on so-called. LGBT propaganda. I'm deliberately speaking so-called. LGBT propaganda because neither Orban nor our Orbanists in HS have ever been able to explain what this LGBT propaganda is that we should all be afraid and terrified and that will probably take over, take over and turn us into some kind of monsters. No, it's a law that is in fact an indication of hatred, hatred for others and a demand for some excuse that even in Hungary where there are serious economic problems does not talk about what would be important for that society but to give that society some bone around which it will be gnawed instead of moving forward. Croatia is unfortunately among rare members who have not publicly condemned the law. At the same time, if I am not mistaken, and I ask you to correct me, the party of the distinguished Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia was restrained in the European Parliament when the vote on a resolution that should have condemned this inhuman law was cast. This is an important issue for Europe because it is a question that defines what it will be and what Europe will be. Will Europe be a society that respects the rights of all citizens and citizens of Europe to be what they are and to be free, to be free in Croatia, Hungary, Luxembourg, France or anywhere else? If this law and such laws become a practice, then EU citizens will not be able to be free in all its territory, and therefore I expect from those who represent this country, a country that has fought hard to fight for its freedom and which should therefore be particularly sensitive to the freedom of others that when such attacks on Europe as a community of free people happen to be among the first to stand up against them. Unfortunately, that didn't happen. And the next thing I want to talk about, which is also important for Europe that has been discussed at European Council meetings, which is important for Croatia as well, is the issue of vaccination. Yes, and that should be said again. Europe has made a serious circus in vaccination. The EU's bodies did not respond well at the beginning of the delivery of the vaccine and there was a situation which, I will say, was partly and responsible for the people's resistance to vaccination. When we remember that 12 - month circus, from January, it is clear why some of those unloved images, and unfavorable statements, and that justification for their own mistakes can create resistance. However, what was the problem 6 or 7 months ago has been removed today and the fact is that vaccines at EU level are enough, but there are two problems. The first is how to get our citizens to split. It is definitely a big problem that Croatia is not only facing. Some countries solve it better, others solve it worse. Unfortunately, we belong to those who have failed to campaign and convince citizens of all the benefits of vaccination, but it is no wonder because if you declare a victory over the pandemic three times, then the question is why people would be vaccinated when we won the pandemic without vaccination. I am ironic, of course, but it is necessary to work on making people conscious, to include a much larger number of participants in the campaign to promote vaccinations, and it is not possible for colleagues and colleagues to be aware of the badges in the HRT programme. It's something to talk about and connect to the next one, which is a matter of support. The EU has also funded many speeches today to preserve economic activity, and therefore jobs. But the question is, is it right to link it to vaccination? We've recently heard data on cleavage at the Ministry of Health. Entrepreneurs in whom the degree of fissure is higher than in the Ministry of Health will be sanctioned, and the minister will not be punished because of what is happening in his portfolio. That's not right, but it's not right for another reason, that we need to increase the cleavage and we have to work on it, but we have to save jobs at the same time. And if there are two things that shouldn't have been connected, then it's a question of lack of will to vaccinate and support to preserve jobs. We have to run a campaign, we all have to put our best efforts into it because, as has been said here and in public today by doctors, by those who really understand the consequences of this pandemic, vaccination is an exit and rescue, but it is also not possible to link non-vaccination with the preservation of jobs. It's wrong. If he wasn't supposed to be connected to something, then that's it. I also thank the Prime Minister for reporting, I hope he will give a concrete answer to see where there is a problem with Croatia's entry into Schengen and why this statement by the Slovenian Interior Minister Mr Hojs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56593	Thank you very much. So, on behalf of the promoter, the respected Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56594	Thank you, well-respected President HS, esteemed MPs and MPs. Three points one regarding Hoyce's statement, that statement can be freely made by generic character. No country that presides over a council topic that is as sensitive as enlargement to any segment of the EU's deeper integration, so it will not put Schengen space unless there is a consensus on it. I've told the public more than once that we expect it to be in 2022. For those who read more carefully European documents, and I don't know if you had time to read a new strategy published by the Commission in early June on Schengen where the European Commission's position is very clear, and this is shared by both the President and the Commissioner in charge of Schengen Ylva Johansson, with whom we are on excellent relations to complete Schengen space, which means both Croatia and Bulgaria and Romania, so all 3 countries. Unlike Bulgaria and Romania, which are in the process, you are technically ready, but we are waiting for them to mature, and this lasts exactly 10 years, since 2011. and there is no debate on the European Council where their heads of state or government don't mention the subject, and we can say it a lot, I wouldn't say it even impatiently, but sometimes from a political angle, in a slightly frustrating way, that it takes so long. What's he saying? It says that extending the Schengen area is a sensitive political issue, extremely sensitive because it's not just about Schengen is about the whole concept of enlargement, it's about the migration crisis, it's about the covid crisis, it's about terrorism and Schengen as we want to approach today is not about the Schengen that's currently on stage. At the moment, Schengen is not what it was imagined to be 36 years ago. He's supposed to be moving freely without any restrictions, today that's not happening. It happens that you have control among the members of the Union because of the different 3 segments, these 3 are a reminder, migration one, terrorism two, covid three. We will bring it to the council when all the elements are mature and bring it in partnership with the chairman. What is particularly important is why I mentioned Slovenia. If you have followed the statements of the Slovenian Prime Ministers or ministers in recent years, then you see a huge shift. When you managed to hear from this government of the Slovenian prime minister clearly, including the president now, as well as the foreign minister, Slovenia is 100% for Croatia's membership in Schengen. It's your key and that's what matters. I'm not going to make a public count here in a forum like this with whom and how we speak because no one in my place would do it wisely, so neither will I. As far as we're concerned, if you're interested, we can go once you decide that a call to the government isn't an invitation to some pub or a club you can come to, so I'll tell you the state of affairs that you can also engage through your political families at European level. As regards support and vaccination, the state has the right to condition support in any way and it is legally possible, in the constitutional context it is possible, so constitutional law is not a problem, labour law is not a problem, administrative law is not a problem, everything can be done. We make moves where we want to encourage people to split because everyone, yes, needs to make a contribution, to whom, to the taxpayer. You have a taxpayer who is vaccinated and one who has not been vaccinated and a taxpayer who has been vaccinated pays support to the one who has not been vaccinated. That's quite clear, that's what this is about, it's not about us transferring responsibility. We've transferred them to no one's responsibility, nor have 700 thousand people been paid by any alleator system. It was paid because we decided that we would now stand behind workers and employers. That decision was not made by anyone but this government and on that side our position is quite clear. And that's why I believe that when you discuss this subject, don't politicize and go to these cheap variants of who won, who didn't beat the crown and quote half the sentence, not the other part of the sentence. We have done what we should in all stages of the maximum good and have kept our lives normal, much more normal than many other members of the European Union, and all this is now trying to forget. There was no curfew, no complete lockdown, nor will I hope.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56595	Time. Thank you. Stay Prime Minister because we have replicas. The first one's up, buddy Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56596	I thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. Prime Minister, when you mentioned the case of Bulgaria and Romania, you returned to what I was saying. At this point in time, I won't say that he stopped being important, but he fell into another plan. We have now moved from the phase of technology to the policy phase and indeed entering Schengen is a sensitive political issue and we have to answer there today and it would be legitimate to hear whether there are political obstacles between Member States other than Slovenia and others for Croatia to be admitted to the Schengen. I think it would be okay for the representatives of the Croatian Parliament to know that. And as for connecting vaccinations and resistance, we can agree that a legal argument can be found for that. But law and justice don't always have to be the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56597	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56598	As far as this first one is concerned, I've already explained it all. I'm not going to interpret it twice because you don't need twice about it. As for the support, many have received support. They received them only in practice with the fulfilment of those minimum criteria prescribed by the Government through the Croatian Employment Service. What we want, we want people who come to work in whatever context this society is, to come sure, that these next to them are also safe and that's only if the largest number of people are vaccinated. So we don't have any dilemmas here at all. We have people who believe in credible sources and people who give trust to non-creditable sources engaged, very aggressive as any loud minority in our society has been extremely loud lately, and then it's thought to be terrible and important and that a lot of people support it. And you can finally see that here in the Parliament, and the realities are completely different, and that's why we're going to calibrate that subject the way and when it suits us in a way that we encourage vaccination to penalize someone, but that's why we're going to take responsibility for everything we have in common.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56599	Thank you very much. Here's your friend, Thunderbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56600	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister so when you talk about the government giving support to what else you could and which government didn't do it? So you didn't do anything special. You did what you had to do, otherwise people would lose their jobs, the budget wouldn't be charged, and you yourself couldn't function at all as a government. So you couldn't do anything else, so you didn't do anything special. And as for the bonding of vaccination support, I find that absolutely unacceptable. First because you will also take taxes and impose on those unvaccinated, and when it comes to support and from people who fill that budget from which you are giving something that is yours and actually is theirs, then you will not give them that support. And I'm curious about the mandatory vaccination. Yesterday we had calls from journalists that maybe in the Assembly it could be launched to seek support from the opposition, I wonder if there are any thoughts on the matter.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56601	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56602	Here you are a giant and proud of foreign policy issues, an expert on the European Union, a powerful influence, a part of a number of European political families, and we do not know where we would be without you in this comparative analysis of European events, including support. So, about the support. The government reacted because it was responsible. The government shares support by organising the distribution of budget money, but assumes responsibility. It doesn't go for 400 thousand unemployed last year as he spoke to the SDP before the election. It does not declare victory against the crown, but says we won in the first half of the time when we have 3 weeks 0 or 1 of the infected. It's good to know both you and those of yours on the left. And that's why we have citizens' support, and you don't have it. You've even fallen below 5% if we had today's elections, so you scurryed like this today to get a press release in which replica of the prime minister... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56603	Thank you very much. Injury of the Rules of Procedure of your colleague Grumo, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56604	Nowhere has we fallen except in your paid polls of Begic and others, and that just shows that we are on the right track because your anxiety and my calmness shows that it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56605	Now, because of your calmness, and you've even forgotten to refer to the article when it's a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you're going to get the third warning I last escaped from you. And now I have to give because he's such a Rules of Procedure so you can't speak on this agenda wheel anymore. Let's move on now. Here you go, Comrade Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56606	Thank you, Mr. President. The Prime Minister is indeed responsible for policy which wants to create conditions within the Council, a consensus for Croatia to be admitted into the Schengen area, rather than talking about whether a country supports it more or less. That this is how we led, for example. Access negotiations would never have ended them. That is why I think it is the only responsibility in this way to lead the policy that it is actually the success of the Croatian state that it has created a consensus to join the European Union, it was not that simple. so simple. And I also think that it is also truly commendable to this new, highlighted new dynamic with Slovenia because it will be important not only during the Slovenian Presidency but in general in our bilateral relations and in general for the situation in Southeast Europe.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56607	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56608	Thank you very much, Reverend Stier, that's exactly it. So, one who has little experience, little knowledge, little memories in the final way that we've led some processes to things looks quite different from those who familiarize themselves with these topics in the last time or predend the public to give the impression that something really knows about it. Those involved in Croatia's EU accession process know how complex it was, how many countries they did at that time. Now it's convenient to remember June 10 years ago, maybe someone will remember, you'll certainly want which country was chaired then and who was prime minister in it. You know who he is? Hungary. You know who the prime minister was? Orban. You know who was after them chairman? Poland. You know who the prime minister was? Tusk. How many Poland and Hungary have made 10 years ago to complete accession negotiations thanks to why we are here today for 8 years and today we have 25 billion euros for the next decade is not something some of us will easily forget and give in to spontaneous day-to-day political reactions.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56609	Thank you. Comrade Peovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56610	Good afternoon. Mr. Prime Minister, you took part in a panel of employment and jobs. The debate on the European social model and the implementation of the European Pillar of Social Rights was held. I must admit that in this report, for the first time, I saw some of the autonomous politics that you faced the question of the vaccine. I wish we had such policies here too, but unfortunately when we were getting it means on the Committee on the Work of Reports and Responses and the Government's opinions on directives, European directives on labour. Let's say the minimum wage I was not a little surprised when we got an answer saying that union organisation must be a matter of free choice, that the higher degree of collective agreements is something that is too high an ideal for Croatia to strive for, etc. and so much closer. Well, then it doesn't surprise your party member's response that we should work more. I wonder if you know exactly what autonomous labour policies are and how many Croats work on average compared to others.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56611	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56612	You mean longer? You're talking about the length of a lifetime? So we had one say the French... The hallucinant debate that SDP colleagues joined in an initiative amid the European campaign campaign with campaign 67 is too much, and the same SDP when it was in power passed the law to work up to 67. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The only change in the pension reform at that time was that something that should have taken effect in 2036 came into effect 31. So then we had people who fell from Mars, go around and agitate with a full belief that 67 is too much at a time when healthcare is better and Croatia needs labour. So it was a debate highly politicised and teamed only to influence the results of the European elections, so that it would not accidentally interfere with the mind. We are very good at dialogue with our social partners on all port issues and on what is most important in the fight against poverty.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56613	Thank you. Comrade Pavlich, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56614	Dear Prime Minister, in your presentation today, I come to the conclusion that Croatia's biggest problem right now is the weak split of Croatian citizens and that the binding of the support to the split does not violate any law. However, through this very decision you create a counterproduct on the ground, you create a reluctance of a large part of our citizens towards vaccination. Well, your Minister, Coric, a few days ago, was calling all those who didn't vaccinate by false guru. 54% of Croatian citizens call it fake guru. What kind of statement is that? And what people think when a minister says it. Of course they have reluctance and they don't believe those stories. What's next? Will those who haven't been vaccinated get strips on their shoulders like some in World War II, know who's been vaccinated, who hasn't been vaccinated. I think the whole vaccine campaign went the wrong way. Instead of this positive campaign, you, or your closest associates, are going in a negative way, and that is how your split is very low, and I think that this co-responsibility is just the right part and the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56615	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56616	I don't know how you came up with these wordings on the tapes at all, how you came to the conclusion that the guru were all 54 whole and some percent of the people who didn't vaccinate. Neither did the minister mean it, nor did he say it in such a way as this about winning the crown in a partial way, you tend to draw conclusions that are not there. It's not good for your sake and for your credibility. Help instead, help a little, persuade the people, encourage them, spread out that 4 million people around the world died of covid or covid, that these doctors from Vinograd are accurate in the analysis died accidentally because of this disease or with it, it is similar with us. We'll see how much it is because of the compatibility, how much because of the covid itself at some later stage of the analysis. But it would be good if as many people were vaccinated without coercion, without fear.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56617	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Pavlichek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56618	Infringement of Rules of Procedure Article 238. Well, I'd like you to respect the opposition and our opinions more. I said last week to Minister Beros that it would be good to depolitize the headquarters, to allow the profession to talk about vaccination and corona, and then the number of people vaccinated in Croatia will be much higher. Here's our proposal, and you respect it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56619	You know, you've earned a warning, you've consciously done it by giving a warning. Comrade Rasdic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56620	Dear Prime Minister, here's a little surprise on the left side of the assembly I'll commend you. Just before the press asked me, so is there anything good that Prime Minister Plenkovic has done for the past few years? I said there was one good thing, which is that Croatia did not go with too strict measures and for long-term closures, as was the case in Germany and Slovenia, it proved that this approach was correct. It is therefore a shame to threaten the people today with some repressive measures knowing the little mentality of our people, and this can only result in a counterproductive effect. When I analyse where the mistrust of so many members of the population from the headquarters is being addressed, I think that the fundamental problem is that in Croatia we have this unique fact that at the head of the headquarters is not the health minister, but the police minister is therefore an expert on ONO and DSZ and that in this direction there was unclear communication. It was more about repression and threats than about a better future that would happen if the pandemic prevailed. And also from the scientific advice came contradictory information.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56621	Thank you very much, dear colleague Rasdic. .... Members of the Council.... [[You don't understand.]] Thank you very much. You keep going beyond the border on purpose. I'm asking you to hold on for a minute. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56622	Thank you very much. I didn't hear you compliment us. Thank you very much for your commendation. You, whose appologians you've been praising for years, and anyone who's been following a political game knows who you're rooting for and where you're taking the Bridge. Maybe the bush, both Petrov and Bulj aren't aware yet, but these little better analysts know which direction the wind blows. It's about your praises and appology. Save it for some other hills, not the Ban Courts. As far as vaccination is concerned, we're not threatening anyone. On the contrary. In fact, since I said that in the government, we've seen a leap in the weekly and daily vaccination of the first dose, which is very good. So we generated the argument and the vaccination was dynamic. We'll keep doing it. We believe in science, we believe in medicine, I believe in the Croatian people that they are smart, informed and will be informed on the basis of information that is accurate, not those that are not because "in that bush lies a rabbit".
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56623	Thank you very much. No more replicas, so please return to your seat. We'll continue the debate now. It's my colleague Bartulic's turn on behalf of the House Movement Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56624	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, here I am sorry that the Prime Minister had to leave the assembly. A little earlier, I asked him an important question on behalf of concerned parents about the school year in the fall. He didn't exactly convince me with the answer. In fact, he avoided answering, and once again he called on the profession, and that profession has not recently given way to trust. So we heard recently that no person in Croatia died who was vaccinated didn't die from Covid and the same day the hospital in Dubrava denied that claim. So the profession has high responsibility in all of this, and lately it is doubtless that people are losing confidence in headquarters, even because of certain statements. And once again it's not good that in this way it's actually morally blackmailing people, free people. Everyone agrees that children are not a risk group. Therefore, I think it is very legitimate that the issue and parents are concerned that this announcement of mass vaccination of children did not echo well. But I'm going to say the same thing at the beginning about the pandemic commendably. I think it's good that we still had lighter measures instead of hard lockdown and similar to other European countries. But what's not good and what's causing concern is, in addition to the milder measures, our economy still fell over 8%. We lost over 8% of GDP. We can only imagine what it would have been like to have had hard measures and that direction followed. Therefore, the situation is not good and our economy is more vulnerable than it should be because the announced reforms are not implemented. However, this connection of support with vaccinations, I think it is problematic though the prime minister is creating the impression that there is nothing controversial about it and that everything is legally clean. Yet a new artificial division is being created in society, and we see, for example, in Minister Beros's portfolio that a small number of about 30% has been vaccinated. Therefore, the public sector does not show any greater responsibility if it is set against others. And let me remind you, entrepreneurs have not brought themselves into this situation. It's because of the imposed measures in the pandemic. They couldn't work. They shouldn't have worked. So now this turns out to be somehow an act of mercy for people who were not allowed to work anyway, and they rightly voiced against it. The European Union, I would say, is not in the best condition from our perspective of the Homeland Movement. It should be said here that the EU's share in the world economy has been falling for a while. So it's not because European economies are not growing, but they're growing too slowly in relation to the rest of the world, and we have a big problem here, and that's one trend that started before Brexit. So, by leaving one big member, that's all it took to speed it up. But that's one of the negative trends that preceded Brexit. But why do I mention Brexit? It seems to me that lately, especially from these statements after last Summit, there is the impression that European leaders have learned nothing after Brexit. They haven't learned a lesson. There are still some leaders who are waiting for one member. Dutch Prime Minister Ruthe said he would force Hungary to its knees because of this Law on the Protection of Children from Indoctrination in Schools. So the prime minister of one other member is actually threatening Hungary and it does not give way to confidence. And I don't think it's by chance that there's one serious controversy at EU level about the future. And that controversy won't go away. So the question arises where do some even get moral authority to talk to one member in this way? I don't admit... Nor do others have any higher moral authority, nor do I agree that Croatia should be restrained in some matters only out of gratitude for the support of Poland and Hungary. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] No, not just out of gratitude for the past, but in principle we have to be able to defend some things. Finally, the question arises, which is actually more majorstream and acceptable today in Croatia, so Christian principles, moral principles or the LGBT agenda, gender ideology and so forth. What's more majorstream? Turns out it's a problem to defend some of the principles that we've inherited in the first place. I mean, it wasn't Croatia created yesterday. This, therefore, leads all together to the conclusion that these discussions will be further intensified. I don't think the Hungarian people will get on their knees because of a statement from some others. Finally, the Netherlands does not even have a functioning government now, and negotiations continue. Therefore, the right to set things that way in the first place. I would say that from our perspective of the Homeland Movement, this attempt to create a great state at Brussels level is not good. So we see different tendencies. I think that some members must retain the sovereignty of the decision, not just become in some way in this process the decision of those who will confirm what others have decided. No, we must fight for the sovereign rights of national states, to determine the key things in their countries, and so does Croatia. It seems to me we're still predisposed to follow the big ones. Mr. Plenkovic mentioned elections in Germany. I'm sure it doesn't matter who gets elected after Angela Merkel. However, we must have our own vision so that the EU may look rather than rely too much on large ones. They only take care of themselves anyway. That's what you saw in this pandemic. I will remind at the beginning that Mrs von der Leyen even felt that she had apologized to Italy for not showing the EU a higher level of solidarity with the country. It's a condition. So we hear a lot about solidarity and things like that, and reality is different, and we have to say that we better set ourselves up. But what we see is a kind of moralist activism by some members and one of the possible consequences is to impose an ideological monopoly, a politically correct way of thinking. First, it's not even in line with freedom, and we're not going to run away from all sorts of controversy when it comes to human rights. So, we don't all agree on that, and I think that we should continue in peace rationally, reasonedly lead the debates and not label and impose and intimidate certain members who are not in line with how the pack thinks. I will say something else about the fundamental values of the EU. So it is often debated on the anniversary of what the EU represents, as it has created, the role of Schuman de Gasperia, Adenauer and similar. However, I argue that they could hardly recognize the same EU today and how it works today and how it refers to new members who have suffered a lot in the recent past. I won't repeat everything that's happened over the 20th century, but I don't think that certain leaders are the ones who are invited to share lessons with Orban or the Government in Poland, so at the end of the day, tomorrow, we have to have our own opinions and know how to defend it, so when it's awkward and in the highest places. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56625	We will now listen to a respected colleague, Glavasevic, on behalf of the Green Left Block Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56626	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. HDZ's policy has suffered only in the last month three huge defeats on the European stage. Although in the European Parliament, some of their MPs were reputed in the case of the so-called ‘European Parliament’. Matic's report. They were denied the amendments they wanted to cover up for Croats to reverse the European Parliament's resolution on BiH. Finally, they did not clearly and loudly condemn the new Orban destabilisation of the EU through the experience of LGBT persons. With that on his shoulders, the Prime Minister is coming to the Parliament today, but let's go and medias the truth. The report said that at a meeting held on February 25th and 26th, the prime minister intervened with a comment that the slowness in the delivery of vaccines creates mistrust among citizens. It certainly contributes to mistrust, but I wonder if the prime minister may see any other elements that contribute to it. Citizens' mistrust is certainly a huge problem, but the causes in this should not be sought exclusively in some external subscribing things such as slowness in the delivery of vaccines. A much greater contribution to citizens' mistrust has been made to government and headquarters, unclear communication on the problem, the apparent politicisation of the alleged expert headquarters, and a completely unclear approach in determining protection measures. It would be fair if he had said something to his colleagues and colleagues at the European Council about it too, and then the next time he spoke about it, I hope he will remember the fact that, say, in the Ministry of Health only a few days ago, there were fewer than 35% of them vaccinated. When the prime minister participated in this meeting, the number was probably even smaller. I think it's a much bigger problem for citizens to trust than slow to deliver vaccines. And not to mention how much the government contributes to mistrust when it apparently abuses the pandemic to court the church with ideas of banning Sundays. Economist Vuk Vukovic recently said that Sunday's ban on working has the same effect on the economy as a month of lockdown. The prime minister may now consider explaining this to his colleagues and colleagues at the European Council at one of the future meetings. It is even more important than what they will say to them and what they will tell us and citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. In the replica, I asked the prime minister about the working evening at a meeting held on 24 and 25 June when, as the report says, European Council President Charles Michel initiated a debate on homophobic laws adopted in Hungary. In response to the prime minister's reply, we learned that he did not participate in the debate on purpose, but publicly communicated his views to the usual clear and precise views. Well, it's easy being a hero after a battle. Why didn't the Prime Minister at the scene tell Viktor Orban his clear and precise views? There in front of his colleagues and colleagues where there were no cameras, where it is spoken more openly, where there is no diplomatic wrapping in the cellophane, there is where our Prime Minister Plenkovic chooses not to engage deliberately in the debate, nor in a very clear and precise articulated letter of criticism sent to Orban by 16 prime ministers and prime ministers of the member states. The prime minister answered his question, counterpart Mrak Taritash, that he has no intention of including himself in some politically motivated, which is a quote, debates and letters. Excuse me, but how exactly should these things be motivated? We're politicians and politicians. The Prime Minister is a politician. The meeting of the European Council is a meeting of the politically elected leaders and leaders of the member states. The European Union is a political union and a political project based on values that are politically selected. The European Parliament has been elected to the elections, the European Commission has been politically nominated and drawn up. The European Council, chiefs and heads of state and government, elected and elected in the elections. What exactly is the Prime Minister talking about? What should be the motivation of any participation in political bodies of the political union, rather than political ones. Theological, moral philosophical. Many nonsense and populist nonsense have been spoken in this House, but what Prime Minister Dark Taritash told is one of the bigger ones. Because of Prime Minister Plenkovic and Minister Grlic Radman, Croatia knows which route leads Hungarian politics. Ursula von der Leyen called the law a disgrace. It is and is opposed not only to the values of the European Union, but also to the values of democracy. They may think that Croatia does not cost anything, but if they have followed statements by some politicians in the Parliament over the last few days and they have. If they saw attacks on the procession of pride for the first time in 10 years in Zagreb, they should be clear that they are playing with human health and life. Contact and Hungarianism could bite your ass, Mr. Prime Minister, and I hope someone you want to hear will say it in your face. There must be no compromise, budgetaryity or hesitation about human rights and the rule of law. You have to be as you like to say, he's gone, though precise and clear. It is tragic that the prime minister's clarity and precision are melted under the slightest pressure of an ordinary autocrat from the neighborhood with the smell of oil and gas, which each few with nostalgia publishes photographs of Hungary's maps with more ambitious borders than the current ones. It's not historic that there's no confusion, but more ambitious than the historical ones and he and his ministers are silent about it. Such sovereignty and such patriotism can be so that in Srem, we can say “a cat about a tail hang. ” The June 24th and 25th meetings included cybersecurity. NATO and European Union policies are increasingly turning to this aspect of human security. And what is Croatia doing about it? Speaking about security at a meeting held in February, the prime minister said Croatia would acquire multi-purpose fighter aircraft and thus contribute to collective security. Okay. Chinese warfare has certainly not yet gone into history, but cybersecurity is today quite certain side by side of security from kinetic threats. The more likely cyber attacks today are much more likely than the likelihood of kinetic attacks. We live in a time in which, say, a 14-year-old from China before breakfast is able to hack much more complex and much better protected systems than for example our military airports. I mean, we don't have planes if we can't use them. It is therefore necessary to invest in cybersecurity. It has great potential in Croatia and it is something that we could offer the European Union as our contribution to the security of the entire Union, while at the same time restoring our economy and attracting new investments. Unfortunately, this was not the case because the government does not recognize the advantages we have, but rather adheres to some cold war concepts of defence policy and security and allows one Alexander Vukic to enter the arms race. Harasho. And during that time some other countries invest in their IT sector and watch how to protect their sovereignty in the digital ecosystem of the time in which we live and the time in which our children will live. It's final. From reading this report and listening to the prime minister, it is clear that neither he nor this government have a European policy nor a clear direction in which they lead our country within the EU. The prime minister had one Freudian slip in response to his colleague, Mrak Taritash, and he actually admitted it. I'm not going to be involved in some politically motivated letters. He who confesses half is forgiven! No, not this time because this isn't a kid's game. These are the lives and fates of our people. If the prime minister and government don't know, they don't understand and they don't want to run European politics, so let them resign. There are those who know, understand and want, and the citizens are very good at seeing and doing it with growing trust and support. Just look at the polls. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56627	We are now going to the last debate of clubs, which is the Club of Representatives of the HSS and the Workers' Front, respected colleague Katarina Peovic. After her presentation, we'll take a 10-minute break and then proceed with individual debates. There are eight of them, and so far we have two final hearings. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56628	Good afternoon, everyone! So this is about the Prime Minister's report on the meetings held by the European Council. Before I say that just a little bit here and commended our prime minister, but I have to give one criticism. This report is locally really so clever that you come across sentences, so I'm going to quote, "You need to stay anchored in common abilities." I'd really like someone to explain to me what it means to be anchored in common abilities. It's a new formulation, although that's how these formulations are recycled. But I also really commended our Prime Minister for reading the report as a thriller and seeing it on top of one of these meetings and intervened loudly and alerted to the issue of the fair distribution of vaccines among the Member States, and said this also adds to this debate that Bojan had conducted before it was a technical issue, but it was a political issue. I certainly welcome that, because at last, the acquis on politics is moving and we are facing that every question is a political issue. But there was indeed a more concrete prime minister, asked for leaders in his statement, so after the meeting, to provide concrete policy guidelines on the principle of the distribution of vaccines to which further Member States in which the delivery of vaccines should be seriously delayed, etc. And indeed after the intervention and the long-term debate in the end, it is agreed that the issue should be referred to a solution where 30% of the countries with a shortage of vaccines were later reached. Let's just say that this is one of the really rare situations in which I find in the report some autonomous beating of our prime minister and loud speaking in favour of my country. I wish there was such loud talk in other questions. Unfortunately, that is not the case, although something has been said about some of the worldly issues. I will say something about economic issues, where I believe there was no autonomous action and has remained in key issues such as our prime minister participated in a panel of employment and jobs where, has the impact of the pandemic, Covid 19 disease on the EU and its population, society and economy stressed. The debate on the European Social Model and the implementation of the European Pillar of Social Rights was held, i.e. 20 pillars of social rights and an informal meeting of the EU leaders on social issues in Port on 8 May 2021. I have not found, therefore, any autonomous policy or direction that I think needs to be changed, which is the direction of opinion on the work and rights of workers. However, we have received several directives which I have mentioned in my replica, the opinion of the Republic of Croatia on the proposals of the European Parliament's Directive, in particular, such a view on minimum wage is, at the very least, the response of our Government to those directives that go, so according to these pillars of social justice, the increase of the network of collective agreements, the increase of minimum wage with an emphasis on the minimum cost of living, in order to achieve a minimum wage, and not that the minimum wage is linked to some percentage of the average wage, which is a whole other amount in each country. And in our case, that amount really isn't related to the real cost of life. And that's why the Workers' Front has also referred to the parliamentary procedure as the conclusion that the Government is asking the State Department for Statistics to calculate the quarterly cost of life that would allow us, of course, not to allow us to introduce a decent salary overnight, but it will allow us to see what the gap between the dignity pay is that the trade unions and those minimum, by law of prescribed pay that does not meet even 25% of the total cost of living and really does not constitute a decent salary. The real position of the Republic of Croatia is unacceptable according to this proposal, the proposed directive in question, which it formulated in accordance with the conclusion of the coordination for the internal and external policies of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, where the objectives of the proposed directive are assessed, therefore unrealistic. The objectives of the Directive are to improve working conditions and ensure that all workers in the Union have access to adequate minimum wage protection, either in the form of a minimum wage law or pay established by collective agreements, which should allow them to live properly wherever they work. And these efforts, therefore, as we see from this report, are not fully accompanied by some autonomous position of the government. The government was therefore required to clearly formulate a positive attitude towards that objective, although it is declared to be a positive one. He has n from problematic components, which is that Member States have set an unusually high standard legally prescribed minimum salaries, that this is a standard that cannot be reached, that the rate of coverage of collective negotiations that are advisory here is not imperative at least 70% of what the Government of the Republic of Croatia considers too high an ideal to be justified. Although, say, in Austria, it's more than 90%, in the Netherlands over 70%. It should also be taken into account that the rate of coverage of collective agreements with us has fallen rapidly. It's extremely low. It means 40% and 45% that it decreased in the previous two decades by 19%. So it is certainly necessary for us to raise the rate of collective negotiations and raise understanding and understanding of minimum wages and achieve opportunities, to ensure that the minimum wage is increased. So other than such worrying attitudes related to the directive, this is not the only one, I took it as a suggestion. It is not surprising, then, that this and the oral position of some members of the government according to the proposal to say the holidays which fall on the weekend which the Workers' Front also referred to in the procedure shifts the day off to the next working day. We can discuss whether this is a real proposal, whether there are any obstacles to this proposal. But what we shouldn't talk about and I'm really surprised by the insolence of those ruling that we have to do more. So that's totally unacceptable. So on average, he didn't realize what I was asking him, we have more hours on average than other countries in Europe. We work more than others in Europe for significantly lower wages and cannot be said to be the ideal for people to work even more, because we will not achieve lower labour prices for more hours, greater exploitation of workers and labour, but rather some other mechanisms that we do not find, which is economic growth and an end to this oscillating structure of the economy based on tourism and service activities. So I have to say that even incredible pride means in that response from your colleague Reiner that we are going back to 41 in the past is not really correct, because I'm not getting into how many people who are considered knights live in the present. But anyway, we're talking about it being a legal regulation that exists in more than 80 countries in the world. So I'm not talking about something extraordinary, and our statistics show that we have very good reason to cut the number of hours. Not to increase them and all the regulations that appear here and from returning pensioners to the labour market instead of raising pensions go for the fact that we create even bigger problems, which is even greater conditions for reducing the labour price. I deliberately speak labour prices even though the minister warned me that it was not a labour price. I'd like to talk to him once and talk about it a little bit. This isn't the place. But what we're doing is really setting up all the conditions to lower the labour price, that the labour market is actually supplying to those who can work and want to work for the lower ones and who are forced to work for the lower ones, and everything under the agenda means that we have a labour shortage that simply isn't true. Because we have a huge eviction. 14% of the working-age population has moved out. So we can't have a labour shortage. We have salaries that don't allow people to live on them. And here in Iceland, they're reducing the week's work from 40 to 35 hours, and we're talking about all possible models that are just going to lead us back to another phase of the labour price downturn. And it is certainly necessary to mention what is repeatedly listed here as a rescue solution for EU funds. Here's the information that I'm going to give you that the funds available to us over the past seven years have been less than investment in just one pre-crisis year. Now the funds are a little higher, but only because we are even lower on the scale of the European scale and the world scale of economics.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56629	As announced now we'll take a break. We'll continue at 14 o'clock and 10 minutes. It's 1 356 o'clock. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 14.10 HOURS]] First of all, the esteemed colleague Rasdic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56631	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56632	Wait a minute, I'm sorry. I would ask you, however, to put on masks since we still have to. And I guess we're going to fall without a mask, but we still can't. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56633	Thank you. I'm sorry the Prime Minister isn't here, but he showed up for a while. I gave a replica where I commended him for being asked by the press because I'm just criticizing him, do I have to say what's positive? I say what was positive, he accuses me of pulling the bridge towards Zoran Milanovic, and 10 minutes before that he accuses Grmoya of being an extreme right. Now I don't understand how far that option has spread, so from the extreme right position to the left. Or we went so extremely to the right that we broke out on the left. That's what I'd like to ask him, but here he is, so we're gonna have to move on. So, after what I said on behalf of the club, one quick discriminatory analysis of the empty bureaucratic wooden new speech of the Brussels Bureaucracies and the apparition of several substantive meaninglessities, we are now moving on to the contribution of our Prime Minister, at least what was given to us in this report. I quote the report: "The Prime Minister Plenkovic in the debate has exhibited a geostrategic view of the situation and behaviour of Russia and Russian authorities. He believes that it is in the EU's interest that Russia joins a comprehensive but strong way of taking care of the Russian role in the European neighbourhood." I would pray because the president is not there, perhaps one of you close to him explains how Mr Plenkovic has approached it in a comprehensive but powerful way and what is the opposite ally. Does this mean that the overall approach is otherwise weak, and that Plenkovic is special, because he combines comprehensiveness and strength. So, the approach to Russia is comprehensively but strongly, but I quote, "By taking care of the Russian role in the European neighbourhood." Col. Arsen Bauk recently quoted Majdak's novel "Beware that I remain innocent" and I will use the same template and say, therefore access comprehensively but strongly but so that I remain innocent, i.e. taking care of the Russian role in the European neighbourhood. The report on the regular meeting of the European Council of 24 and 25 June in Brussels shall start with the following obviously important information. I quote: "Just before the start of the formal meeting of the European Council, a working lunch was held with the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Antonio Guterres. The leaders congratulated him on the reelection, another five-year term to begin on 1 January 2022. Opinions on global topics and challenges such as climate change, the pandemic of Covid 19 and sustainable development as well as geopolitical topics have been exchanged." It's a finished quote. From this information, the initial information on this meeting shows that the meeting was held on a full stomach. Michelle De Monte says before and after a meal, I'm not the same person. And that they exchanged opinions, read parrot phrases about global topics and challenges such as climate change, etc. I see Bauk laughing and laughing at you. I expect the next time we sit down at the Assembly bar to exchange views on global topics and challenges such as climate change. The peak hypocrite is the next claim in the report. I quote: "The global role of the EU is expressed, for example, in the distribution of vaccines against covid 19 in those parts of the world that cannot be obtained for financial and other reasons. By the end of the year, the EU will donate more than 100 million doses of vaccines. This is one in a number of examples of how global problems are finding global solutions. So, a poor assessment of how many people will want to be vaccinated and a cunning savings to take care of medical waste is now being sold as a major altruism towards poor countries. So why not immediately when you ordered 100 million doses of vaccines for third-world countries and divided in parallel as in the EU, you now give them not to throw themselves away. At this meeting, Plenkovic also spoke of the validity of multilateralism, advocated the expansion of co-operation with the United States, etc. and congratulated the UN Secretary-General for achieving gender balance within his team. I'm sorry he's not here so I can ask him, so here's the Prime Minister if you're watching this, please pass on congratulations on our behalf to all the working people and citizens of the Republic of Croatia to the UN Secretary-General for achieving gender balance on his team. Here's what's obviously important because it's listed in this report on these important meetings. I don't know, I'm sorry Willy Matula isn't here, so let me ask him if he was at the meetings of the central committee of the Croatian Communists' alliance whose member was spoken more meaningfully and more substancefully. Finally, EP President Sassoli stressed in his usual presentation the fight against the Covid 19 pandemic, expressing satisfaction, etc. etc. So now Sassoli's going to get a little off his usual We can't support a report like this. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56634	Let's move on. Now it's my friend Marko Pavić's turn, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56635	Dear President-in-Office of the Parliament, the esteemed secretary of state. Well, here's what I'd take advantage of in an individual debate and look back at a few aspects of the report that I haven't been able to mention in the club's presentation. First of all, I would like to refer to the Porto Social Summit, so the social summit in Porta, as well as the announcements and the chairmanship of the neighbouring and friendly Republic of Slovenia, which in its presidency and on the Council indicated a return to enlargement, i.e. the return to the Western Balkans. When we talk about the Porto Social Summit, we should remember the suspicion of the first such one in 2017. In Gothenburg, where I was personally with the prime minister, where the European Pillar of Social Rights defines 3 categories of principles and 20 principles that we want European and Member States to apply. And these 3 categories are equal opportunities and access to the labour market, fair working conditions and social protection and inclusiveness. And it is precisely the value of this Porto Social Summit that in the prime minister's statement it is given to the European pillar of social rights where we do not give up on the principle of solidarity in the biggest crisis and that a good part of the funds we could hear on the days of the EU funds in the Assembly will recently go to the issue of social rights, to protect against social inclusion and to equal opportunities for access to the labour market. At the social summit, the prime minister also highlighted our measures. It may also point out that a good part of the Member States of the European Union no longer has measures. They just think the period is over. We still do. So far we have paid 11.7 billion kuna and saved 700 thousand jobs. Projects that support the European Pillar of Social Rights may personally be the proudest of the programme "Peace" which is now heading towards already 2 billion kuna and the employment of 10 thousand women in rural areas of the Republic of Croatia. But what I am still pleased is that the EU Strategy on the Rights of the Child has been adopted at the Porto Summit and that a European guarantee for children has been adopted. We all know that there is a young Guarantee so that there is a guarantee for young people that we guarantee the means that after schooling that we will provide them with at the expense of the state or through EU funds either the right to education, training or training. The guarantee for children also provides free access to early preschool education, school activities, at least once a healthy and cooked meal a day, and health care. With... Porto Summit I would certainly like to highlight the Slovenian Presidency. I congratulate my colleagues in Slovenia. The other day he was also the Slovenian ambassador who gave the presidency's priorities here. Their priorities have four pillars since the fight with Covid. But what is very happy is that there is a separate pillar concerning enlargement and, in particular, an emphasis in the Western Balkans. After the Zagreb summit, which was a great success of the presidency and Prime Minister Plenkovic's success that we were able to bring the Western Balkan countries back to the European colossal, that we were able to open negotiations with Northern Macedonia and Albania. It will now continue at the Zagreb summit's successes. In the 10th month, it will also be... a new summit that will further strengthen and give a European future to our neighbours, and this is particularly important for the future of our neighbouring Bosnia and Herzegovina, but also for all other members. In conclusion, I'd like to point out exactly that... The European Council and this is one of the few prime ministers who has and introduced this opportunity to further give priority to the dimension of the Member State and this high home, to get clear messages from the European Council and that these reports clearly show that Croatia knows how to vote for its rights in Brussels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56636	Thank you very much. Let's go with the replicas. First up, he's a friend of Mazhar's.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56637	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Pavić, we could hear today that one of the key and strategic interests of the Republic of Croatia is Croatia's entry into the euro area, i.e. entering the euro area. If we remember that the Republic of Croatia has started this way since May 2018 with the entry strategy. But if we had taken a key political step just last July 10th when we entered the European Course Mechanism Two, we see that it is realistic that the Republic of Croatia will become a member of the euro zone in early 2023. What I am interested in, what are all the possibilities and benefits for both the citizens and the economy of the Republic of Croatia, which will bring a concrete introduction of the euro? Is it not just an increase in exports and a reduction in currency risk or something else that citizens will feel?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56638	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56639	Thank you very much. My dear fellow Mazhar, you've noticed very well. I think Croatia has already profited from the process of introducing the euro. As mentioned in the speech in front of the Club we are before entering the European Course Mechanism two so before 10. The 07th received... from the European Central Bank 2 billion euros where we deposited 15 billion kuna, which only says how much trust we have from the European Central Bank. Once we enter the euro zone practically all this borrowing will be groundless or will not, we will be much cheaper in debt as a state. The possibility of borrowing will practically be unlimited and will cost the European Central Bank. What does "citizens" mean? So cheaper interest, cheaper access to money, equal rights as other member states, and this gives Croatia the chance that it is not a slower component than the two-thirds European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56640	Thank you. My colleague Buric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56641	Thank you, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament. Dear and esteemed representative Pavic, we had the opportunity to hear today from one of the representatives of Mosto that the Government of the Republic of Croatia had no other option but to pay off the job conservation measure. I would just remind myself that unfortunately there was a time when it was really different. It's a time of economic crisis. This is the time from 2011 to 2015 when the SDP was in power with the coalition and when the job conservation measure was activated and consumed all activated and consumed only four thousand times in the entire term and when nearly 400,000 workers ended on the stock market, namely 384,000 in February 2014. So here's to commenting on two completely different approaches to crisis management. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56642	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56643	Thank you very much. Well, I think you're absolutely right. The government's success is highly relativised and measures are being relativised. They're thought to be that way just because it's all been a success that it's been a bit of an incendiary for everyone to do so. Not everyone would. I have already mentioned that not all governments have measures at the moment of the EU. I remember that time, I remember when youth unemployment was 50%, when it was just professional training that maybe once a good measure was introduced, but politics couldn't recognise SDP when it needed to be changed and abolished. So I remember after we came that we enabled young people to triple self-employment support, where the number of young people opening their own companies in Croatia doubled. Therefore, the knowledge that we have in Brussels and the government's influence in Brussels has contributed greatly to this success.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56644	Here you go, Comrade Acklar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56645	Dear counterpart Pavić, you mentioned that at Porto Social Summit, support for the European pillar of social rights was given again, and I am being asked a logical question as to how much support we have implemented the European pillar so far, and of course what are the main measures of all this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56646	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56647	Thank you very much, dear colleague Ackhar. Well, you just noticed. Therefore, the European Pillar of Social Rights adopted in 2017 brings 20 principles. Not all principles are yet translated into EU directives and regulations, such as the harmonisation of business and private life, etc. ... The directive has been adopted. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What is being strongly applied in Croatia is just active support for employment, lifelong learning education, fair working conditions, and I think we have made a major step in social protection, social inclusion. Simply without the European funds that are significant, which are now 24 and a half billion could not provide assistants in the teaching and desire and popular cuisine to provide all other measures that make a significant contribution to the social inclusion of all age groups in Croatian society.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56648	Comrade Bedekovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56649	Thank you very much. Dear fellow MP, I will refer to that part of your presentation in which you have put emphasis precisely on Porto Social Summit, which focused among other things on the European pillar of social rights, and among others one of the essential principles of the European pillar of social rights is certainly social protection and social inclusion, which shows that Croatia does not give up and strongly advocates the principle of solidarity that is visible and through the direction of resources for preserving jobs in the covid crisis and through the employment of more than 10,000 women in rural areas through the Zasala programme. And what I do from the perspective of what I do in my life and my professional here orientation is a guarantee for children and young people through which it is and will be provided, so a large part of the funding from European funds through a multi-annual financial framework. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56650	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56651	Thank you very much, colleague Bedekovic. Well, you've done a good part of the measure, too. I also remember the lengthy work of kindergartens, ensuring now who may have been the pilot for a full-time course that will be implemented through the National Recovery and Resistance Programme. It is this solidarity that has focused on the European pillar of social rights in the prime minister's statements at Porto Summit and gave a direction in which we want to go further, which is Europe's social and inclusive. And in this particular segment, we want to provide support for all possible civil society, for the defenders. So for all groups that are exclusive in any segment, we were able to afford it before we could be honest before we joined the EU. You know well how much the budgets of the Ministry of Social Affairs and how much European funds have added value.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56652	Thank you. And the last replica of my colleague, Posavec, the guilty. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56653	I thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. I'm following your debates on this subject, and you're really consistent with defending the attitudes around Port. Not one of our joint committees has passed on which you have not referred to the subject, and I am glad that you are such a social rights advocate and also children's rights. In fact, what concerns me the most is the question when we talk about recovery through the social pillar, I am interested in realising all the EU funds that we are now building a series of programmes, as is the programme Wish, for example, implemented in Croatia to a large extent whether we will strengthen our economy enough and our society that such programmes can and can be kept at the moment when they stop touching the EU funds that need to equalise us with other countries. I believe you understand my question. Do we have the strength to strengthen our economy?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56654	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56655	Thank you very much and thank you for following my discussions on this subject. I think it's even important to have a consensus on some of these topics. As far as development through EU funds is concerned, we are now moving towards using another envelope. You can see the true extent of the use of European funds after the second envelope, so one 2030, one plus three rules. Along with how our GDP will grow, how our employment will grow, and other factors so that from the EU funds in future envelopes we will get less and less. There are formulas. Even within this envelope, we should have received 2 billion euros less, as we have crossed the short threshold of 60% of the EU's GDP. Therefore, it will fluctuate slowly, and it is up to us, and I believe that we have the capacity to ensure the full sustainability of all these programmes.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56656	Thank you. Let's move on with the debate. Now it's my dear colleague Bauk's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56657	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, what I am pleased to see is that more and more frequent topics at this item of the agenda report from the meetings of the European Council are also topics from our internal policy or those on which there is an internal debate. This is good because I think that this is becoming more and more politically integrated into European issues in a way that we have not yet made so much awareness of ourselves in our first years of membership. And secondly, it is clear that we are becoming a growing factor either good, or bad in those issues that are being debated on the European Council. There are many expressions of similarity and differences of political parties in Croatia, given the key topics which are topics in the European Union, and then there is a connection of certain political factors in Croatia with similar factors in Europe. What we know, therefore, for the two largest parties, are members of the European People's Party or parties of European Socialists who, in general, vote homogeneously or in the European Parliament, in the European Council may even be more diversified in these positions. That is why I think the question of how we see Europe is also very closely related to how we see Croatia. Or the other way we see Croatia is a very narrow issue related to how we see Europe. What we have learned in these six years, excuse us for eight years of membership in the European Union or at least I have learned that in many things we are better than those in Europe, but we are also in many things and worse and we need a little more to achieve that. Very often, various research appears, tables in which, unfortunately, Croatia has now reached Romania in a negative sense, and in fact, the only other Bulgaria by some criteria is worse than us. In that sense, to make a little joke, the issue of enlargement will be much better for us because we will be 3 or 4 or 5 from the bottom when the European Union expands. Most of the attention was caused by two of the topics that I think are connected. These are the Hungarian laws and attitudes around it, and I think that the main position of the political parties that are then passed through their representatives in the European Parliament or in other bodies where they operate. Or the position on the European Parliament resolution proposed by counterpart Fred Matic. For example, the HDZ found itself in a part of the European People's Party that did not support any resolution, any views on the Hungarian law, while on the issue of Bosnia and Herzegovina we found ourselves in a minority part, or we were the only one in the Socialist Group who did not support the resolution. So there is every party, every political factor must, I would say, balance it between the views of the state and, of course, the views of a part of its political family within the European Parliament. And here I think that new parties will also not be vaccinated because they will likely find themselves in a situation so that they are part of a political family that then has different views. The Hungarian law issue is another question. Not only these values, but also issues as to how much the European Union has the right to enter into legislation in the internal affairs of certain countries. For a long time, we who have actually lived a very long period of history either as equal factors or as factors of the second order in the multinational states, so whether it was the Austrian Empire or Yugoslavia, we are very sensitive to when it comes to measures with a common so-called. The federal levels are intruding at something that we believe is exclusively our issue and the future of the European Union will, or the European Union, fall to these issues of how long it will retain its homogeneity or how much this heterogeneity will mean dysfunction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56658	Thank you. We have three replicas. First up, she's a colleague of the Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56659	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Bauk is actually seriously thinking about what part of your exposure to give me a replica. To that part about our dear friend Orban, or the first part where you started your exposure in a way that we should discuss enlargement, because when enlargement comes, they come worse than us and we're not at the bottom. I'm kind of gonna refer to this first part anyway. I somehow have our membership in the European Union and I absolutely think it is a good thing that you go in a better, more successful society because it should also encourage you to be better and more successful and to recognize ourselves there. But when you do a little analysis, it wasn't exactly our case. We should, too, after last time that pledge to expand that membership, but not so that some of us might come and we're not at the bottom of the ladder, but still make sure that some of the times that we've been through don't pass others.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56660	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56661	The situation with the enlargement of at least the countries of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro, Serbia and Macedonia is at this point even I would say not in stagnation, but in a setback in all four countries where Macedonia is at least so not subjective weaknesses, but rather what Greece was doing first, and now it is Bulgaria. So that's what I was already discussing at the pay phone, there's no need to repeat it. The fact is that two of the most developed republics in Yugoslavia today are members of the European Union I would say we can also agree that they are the most developed and that the members of the European Union show that this is a better society, however someone has understood it now. The fact that other countries are also trying to be members of the European Union shows that it is a better society. But there's no point in being in that better society at the end. So if I can express myself in a football dictionary, I'd rather be like Slaven Belupo somewhere in the middle but never fall out.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56662	Thank you very much. Here you go, pal Shimičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56663	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament. My dear colleague, that you have touched a lot of things in your presentation and I think you have been involved in Croatia's path towards the European Union since the beginning. I think it's a good thing that we're part of polite Europe and that we belong there, and that we always have to strive to get better. But does it seem to you that we would be in a better situation if we were alone or if there were alternatives to this European Union? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56664	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56665	First, I was rooting for Italy yesterday because it is in the European Union, and England is not. You see how loyal I am to the European Union. What do they even do on Euro when they're out? Let them play the North American championship. All right. So I believe that one of the major achievements of Croatian politics is entering the European Union. After that, NATO. After that, it will be the Schengen and then the euro. It's four basic pillars. And it's no coincidence that in 2003 or 2 I don't know exactly what the accession agreement is now, or that we've become a candidate. In 2004, Ivica Racan therefore offered Eve Sanader an alliance for Europe and since then, there has been a consensus of the two largest parties on European issues and let it remain that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56666	And the last replica of my colleague Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56667	Dear colleague Bauk, these two topics have no speech in this report, i.e. One of the powers touched on this story of the Hungarian law seems to me Charles Michel was mentioned in a sentence in an informal conversation, later that he mentioned and said that he would discuss it later. And especially about Predrag Matic's resolution, there is no debate. What is the problem and why I somehow interpret that you have come out of the box and spoken to general European problems, which is completely unsustainable this report. Six meetings were held there. Some meetings lasted two days. These are meetings of the leaders of European countries and that there is nothing to say, but at some suma sumarum 20 cards of text very shrill and unsustainable here this is half a year's work by European leaders is quite discouraging. What is my problem in this report is, then, apart from this incompetence, it is clear that it is not only about the form of reporting, but about what was really happening, not even European problems are touched. And those problems that were mentioned were called the wrong name.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56668	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56669	First, I must say that in the last term, I was surprised to see the prime minister coming to the Parliament every little bit on this subject because he introduced this practice, so Prime Minister Plenkovic, and then I began to see it as a kind of European current clock or European current morning or European current and afternoon. And I think it is basically good that one day in every few months it is dedicated to European topics regardless of whether they are listed in the report or not in the report because all of this is more or less pervasive. European policy among other things is policy and agreement, and very often agreements are to give in to one to get on the other. It's usually referred to as political trade in a negative sense, but it doesn't always have to be negative. Therefore, in some topics we will yield, in some topics others will have to give in to us, and in four basic pillars I have already presented to Mr Simicevic in response to the replica as Europe says...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56670	Thank you. Let's move on with the debate. It is now up to the respected representative Vidovic Kristo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56671	Ladies and gentlemen, the founder of the European Union, Adenauer, De Gaspero and Schuman, rightly spoke about the Union of the same values. And what are these values? The primary rule of law. And the foundation of the rule of law is equality before the law, it is an independent judiciary, it is freedom of the media, it is the right to political action, it is the transparent action of all three branches of government. Mr Plenkovic, do the members of the European Council know that you and your members of the Government are in violation of all these values? You are truly transparent, but only in the next three views. First of all, your government is a transparent violation of the laws and protects corruption. Secondly, you are transparently illegal and inadmissible influencing the judiciary and thirdly you are transparently controlling and censoring the media. The example that you are part of the corruption system is Martina Dalic, who is the head director of the Borg corruption mega case, and you appointed her director of Podravka, and her husband as a member of the INA administration. We all know that, it's documented and transparent and you can't deny it. But what you can and what you wrongly do through your judiciary prevents the judiciary from processing that crime. Because if the judiciary were independent and you didn't influence the judiciary, you wouldn't be prime minister, because you personally participated in this crime. And Dalic, she wouldn't be in charge of Podravka. Transparency in the blockade of the judiciary that I have stated is confirmed by the European Commission in its annual report on the state of justice in the European Union. Therefore, Croatia is at its last place throughout the Union in the independence of courts and judges. This report is proof of your harmful policy that everyone in Croatia knows about, but now we have international confirmation. This report shall be submitted by the European Commission to all relevant institutions from the European Central Bank to the European Parliament. This report is read by increasingly important companies, investment funds not only in the Union but throughout the world and those reports that document how you and your government violate the principle of rule of law and influence the work of the judiciary are the reason why Croatia bypasses large investors, which is the reason for unemployment, fall of standards and poverty. Let me be clear. You influence the judiciary in the same way that the previous governments of Milanovic, Sanader and Racan have done, and you are doing this influence to protect corruption and the ruling structure and their unlawfully abnormal wealth caused by the accident of Croatian citizens. And now, I'm guessing that on-call loudmouths are gonna yell at us about how we have an independent judiciary and that there are only two politicians in the DSV. But that's a lie, because in a state where the media is controlled, and courts don't function in it are ruled by informal groups through blackmail and criminal binding. Here's an example. The head man in APIS who counts our votes without anyone's control is a certain Rendulić who was otherwise a close associate of Miroslav Šeparović while he was the same lawyer his wife was V.d. President of the Municipal Court in Zagreb. Of course, that's not an accident. You're protecting Sheparović against the law. On my parliamentary question about the amount of income that Šeparović's lawyer's office has received from state-owned companies, you refuse to answer me. I asked this question on the basis of tips from people from these companies who claimed that Šeparovic had become rich not in his knowledge but in political likeness. The claim is even that he was putting out accounts for services he didn't do at all because these actions were done by the companies themselves. It is noteworthy that Šeparovic opened his lawyer's office only in 2000 and that at the opening, he was honored by guest Josip Perkovic of the Munich Court of Justice who was legally sentenced to the mandate of the suicides. A man like that should have credibility, absurdity. You're protecting Sheparović. He is not independent, and he does not render judgments on the basis of the Constitution, but judgments that suit you. Or an example from my constituency, from the city of Zadar. One of the heads of the County Court is Dijana Grancaric. Her husband is rich in business that allows you to know the God of Calmeta. So Calmeta doesn't have to be afraid of dishes in Zadar. These particular examples are evidence of the illegal networking of the ruling caste. You do not hide it, it is transparent, that is, the main problem of the Croatian state. For this state, responsibility is borne by the government that you are in charge of and which has real authority in Croatia. Because it is not the Japanese emperor who rules in Croatia, but the Croatian government that has the parliamentary majority. How you got to that majority is a different thing, but the fact is that you have real power. Remember the words of William Brand: “Justice and justice can be choked, but they will not be choked. And every injustice comes to an end." Remember your predecessor of your colleague Jandrokovic's idol, Ivo Sanader, "it all comes to an end." This will bring an end to this injustice you are carrying out, and Croatian citizens will fight for a fair Croatia equal opportunities and functional rule of law.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56672	We have one breach of the Rules of Procedure. He's a colleague of Shimičević's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56673	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament. Article 238 has been injured. A colleague insults and demeans the citizens of this country, including Bozidar Kalmet, who was in the trial, was cleared of all charges, and now she says again that the courts are not valid for him. So I ask my colleague not to be false, and she also received a mandate in the 9th constituency she never came to after the election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56674	Comrade Simičević, you deserve a warning. This was a replica, not a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here are colleagues Vidovic Kristo, also a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56675	Article 238 on the same basis as a colleague. So I'm not saying this because of you, my colleague Simicevic, because I'm not trying to reach you anymore. Obviously you did not listen to the debate, but it is important for Croatian citizens. So, it's absurd for you in your injury to the Rules of Procedure to call upon the judiciary that freed Bozidar Calmet when it was just the taste of my debate that was your judiciary that you controlled with your Prime Minister. Croatia is in this condition precisely because of this policy and you are one of the same actors.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56676	You're getting a warning because this wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. It was also a replica. Let's move on. Now it's time for my colleague Baricevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56677	Thank you very much, well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished secretary of state, respected colleagues and colleagues. In addition to the dominant topic of August 19 at the held meetings of the European Council, there were talks on security and defence. A great deal of attention has also been paid to our own abilities and capacities for strategic autonomous action. It is important for us to ensure production in general, but in particular strategic products at EU and Member State level and here we see a great opportunity for the Republic of Croatia because we can offer more favourable conditions for such production in order for one part of such production to come and establish itself in the Republic of Croatia. One of the topics was the single market to strengthen resilience, how to digitise the EU, how to achieve our objectives by 2030, and through this digitisation and transformation to become a leader in this area, and this is also a great opportunity for the Croatian government, a recipe for success and competitiveness, for progress, and it is the Republic of Croatia that makes a great deal to step up to that and to be advanced in digitisation. The theme that was also very important was digital confirmations. It should be pointed out here once again that Croatia was with a few countries first, or even a month before the official entry into force of an official digital certificate office, and it was officially 1.7. Croatia had fully applied the digital certificate, issued itself and was able to control the border crossings of other Member States that had already established its system so that all available freedom of movement and should be commended for that move by the Croatian government. The Council's recommendations were also revised for the purpose of the decision of the headquarters in force of 1. The 7th was followed by recommendations from the European Council. In principle, we want to be safe, to protect the movement of freedom of people. It is very important for us as a tourist country that the course of the tourist season is successful and it will be successful if we reach a higher percentage of the vaccination if we are responsible, because without the tourism that are positive for the Republic of Croatia, for my islanders, my Dalmatians in the Republic of Croatia will have no money. And that's why I'm calling again from this pay phone so that we can all be vaccinated or vaccinated by those who are not so far and understand the seriousness of the situation. So the government's move in post-preservation fees is unprecedented as we heard today and from the prime minister and we heard the answer to my question in which he said that no one else in the European Union has done so in support. The Croatian Government reacted in a timely manner, responsibly, to provide 12.7 billion kuna for 700 thousand workers, to 120 thousand employers, thus allowing the crisis to be bridged, and the total number of insurance workers we have in Croatia today to be greater than it was in 2020 and even greater than it was in 2019. I'll refer to my sports statement. At an informal meeting of Heads of State and Government held on 7 and 8 May, where a second spirit of community and solidarity was confirmed where the historic agreement of July 2020 was inspired, where it really took a lot of negotiations to adopt a multi-annual financial framework, and this role was played by a major prime minister who appealed to the European Council to stop extending Thank you. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56678	Let's go with the replicas. Here you go, fellow Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56679	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, you mentioned in your presentation tourism and your islands which are one of the main topics of economic revitalisation in the midst of this Covid crisis. Croatia is the first in the European Union to go with Covid certificates. We're one. Six already had. We first implemented the IT solution, and as well as the state, we used to make a coalition together with other Member States that depend on tourism to apply Covid's certificate earlier. For example, Germany and Portugal and others see how quickly it can lead to a single county being placed on the red list. So given how you see the development of the future season and especially how they... Health and tourism? [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56680	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56681	Well, here's a thank you to the esteemed representative for your question. It is also evident during this time of the beginning of the tourist season that the vaccination was an extremely interesting tourist sector and that tourist workers were aware and realized how important vaccination is to ensure an even better tourist season. So I hope that along with this immersion in one way, the epidemic and the agreement on these very digital green certificates that we will go towards a good successful season, and thus a new economic swing. I believe that people will recognize and be responsible and vaccinate as much as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56682	My colleague, Juričev Martinchev, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56683	Thank you very much, Your Honor. My colleague Baričević spoke about tourism, so it should be pointed out once again that, just until 2026, tourism was provided with 2.2 billion kuna in the National Recovery and Resistance Plan and that the support will be 100%, that 60% of allocated funds will be allocated to entrepreneurs, which means private sector. Because our hotelers look forward to competitions. For example. for the energy reconstruction, we had one competition in 2018. And we know that investment in tourism also draws investment in other industries. Because we know we need to buy equipment, tools, devices, modernize technology, hire consultants. So investment in tourism except by extending the tourist season will also bring about a full economic recovery.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56684	Thank you very much for your question. It is certainly the benefit of our membership in the European Union, which is precisely for tourism until 2026, as you said in the National Recovery and Resistance Plan 2.2 billion kuna were provided. Therefore, financing in the tourism sector will be available to all micro, small, medium and large entrepreneurs, and also on the basis of public calls from the Ministry of Tourism and Sports will be invested in public tourist infrastructure, but can also be used by private entrepreneurs within the framework of public and private partnerships. Therefore, all these projects will also be linked to the reform of the tourism sector and will contribute precisely to the green digital transition and will increase resilience and sustainability to this crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56685	The next replica of the respected representative, Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56686	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, as you pointed out in your individual debate, the Croatian Government in the Covid pandemic is precisely in order to preserve jobs and empower employers to provide support for 700 thousand workers and 120 thousand employers for which approximately $12.7 billion has been allocated, which is indeed as the prime minister did this morning in his opening debate and said the precedent in the EU. However, you personally live on an island and you are an islander and we continentals know and we are aware of the fact that life on the island is specific and otherwise, regardless of how much further covid crisis you have here, so I would like you to say from the perspective of the islanders and try to explain how much the support of the government to employers and workers at the time of the covid pandemic meant exactly in this particular island center.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56687	Dear representative Baricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56688	Thank you very much, very much, very much, very much. Thank you, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very So, all the islanders I have been meeting both these days and in the past months, 15 months since Croatian society and the whole world strongly marked this particular crisis they say here the role of the state has been irreplaceable. So, especially in the preservation of jobs, there are 800 employers on the island of Brac, on Hvar 900, businessmen on the island of Vis 200. So, only in my county are they satisfied with the role of the state and in preserving the place, because on the island is especially the specificity of work and is done in different conditions than on land.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56689	The next replica of the esteemed representative, Ackhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56690	Dear counterpart Baricevic, you mentioned a national recovery plan worth 47.5 billion grants, a plan that actually covers all important areas and since we know that the economy is all the power in every country and how important is it that you know how much resources from the National Recovery Plan are provided for the economy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56691	Dear representative Baricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56692	Thank you very much for asking, Your Honor. In addition to the benefits that you have mentioned now and mentioned by me of 47,5 billion grants, we will also have more favourable loans available with the EU's best rating, which means that this amount will cost 12% of GDP together with Greece at the very top. And for the area of the economy in the National Recovery and Resistance Plan, the maximum amount of allocation of the planned funds is envisaged, up to 55%, which will boost the competitiveness of green transition, as well as the development of sustainable innovative and sustainable tourism.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56693	Thank you very much. The next debate will be the respected representative Bojan Glavasevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56694	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Fellow Members and colleagues, one of the topics that is underlying almost all of our debates on European affairs, and that is the case in other parliaments of the member states of the Union, is that the EU is not and should be. That's what some would call an ideological theme as if economics, education or defence policy weren't ideological issues of pair excellence. Well, of course they are. It doesn't make them any less valuable, no less important. The prime minister today, in his Freudian sauce that I mentioned in the debate on behalf of the club, when, as a politician with contempt, he rejected political motivation as a legitimate motivation in political action, in fact again accidentally set a very good example of something that is happening in the EU. In fact, he demonstrated a trend that has existed for some time in European politics, which is a trend of escape from politics and turning red tape or in this context of eurocracies. If we want a society of functional, effective institutions, we need a healthy relationship of power between politically elected representatives of citizens and citizens and officials in institutions, those people who do not change every four or five years. It's two forces with opposite action. Politics wants to change, because it is her job to ensure that society keeps up with time and all the challenges she faces. But too often change means there's no continuity, no continuity, no security, and that's why red tape is there. The bureaucracy is there to ensure the transfer of power, the continuity of institutions, prevents chaos. If the balance between politics and bureaucracy is a good society is changed by a healthy, natural pace that members and members of society can follow. If it is damaged, and my thesis is that it is currently damaged in favour of European bureaucracy, society stagnates. I think it's very difficult when political representatives run away from politics as if politics were something to be ashamed of. I see the problem of red tape in the EU above all in the European Commission. This particular Commission has this problem because it is made up of people whose only possible common denominator of red tape which is one Franz Zimmermanns and Oliver Verhelyi can have in common except for officials who support them in political work. Well, not much. This Commission lacks strength even more than some previous commissions, and I am really not optimistic about its legacy. I think it is a committee in which Dubravka Shuica, sic transit gloria Mundi colleagues and colleagues, is in charge of the conference on the future of Europe. But if I don't finish this debate in some pessimistic tone I want to say that I don't think we should run away from the problem, we should face it. There is a policy in the European Parliament, sometimes there is a European Council without the merits of Prime Minister Plenkovic, but it will already be a prime minister or prime minister from Croatia who, in fear of politics, will not run into a secure embrace of bureaucracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56695	The Republic has a respected representative, Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56696	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. A colleague of Glavasevic you have set, in fact you have said a very interesting sentence, that there is always a problem when politicians run away from politics. I'm going to translate it that way, because I think it was the meaning of your individual debate. So society has to change and we have to change. And I always think it's good that we have different options and that citizens have opportunities that have an option. But I think there are some topics on which it would be polite to say the Prime Minister is here. So he decided to submit a report to this Parliament on what, the meetings he had had. But it's not the point of that report to stop him, to tell every one of us what he thinks, to insult us and to move on. It's kind of a point to at least stay decent one morning with us, to have some final exposés. But our prime minister is not such a prime minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56697	Dear Representative Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56698	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, and thank you, colleague Mrak-Taritash, for your comment. I can only agree with you. In these discussions it usually looks like the prime minister is at the beginning, says what he's got, answers to what line, then gets sick of criticism, then disappears. Then probably go back to some final address on behalf of the promoter, hopefully we'll see him. But yes, that trend of running away from criticism is a relatively new date for him. I remember in the previous assembly we were in it together, the prime minister knew how to stay here all day, participated in these discussions especially this point report of the European Council was the point in which he preferred to participate and debate. But politics can be very stressful. Now it's probably just like some other political issues he thinks is a technical question, and then it's something unworthy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56699	Your Honor, Mr. Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56700	Comrade Glavasevic, we have heard many times today that EU fathers were democracies. I'm glad to hear it. Truth be told, it's one power of Degasperis, Adenauer and there's two more. There is the socialist, of course Spinelli and there is a functionalist Mona who is in some way the father of this European bureaucracy. And it's kind of been in some balance, and that's how the Union was built, but recently there's been a imbalance. There's been a imbalance, and in terms of value, there may have been imbalances, perhaps in this sense, that you said where sometimes this is technically dominated by the political one. So maybe we won't agree on how that balance should be. We can agree on imbalances just need to re-create an EU where everyone can be found and in this value sense that they are involved.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56701	Dear Representative Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56702	Here you see fellow Stier, we seem to have more in common than the Zimmermanns and Varhey. An unexpected or pleasant surprise. Well, yes, I think that at the end of the day the debate on what value we want, on what values we want to build the EU in the future, is the same thing we can and should discuss. It's based on one value, but times change. Perhaps we should consider the values we are discussing. Maybe we should hit some new foundations for the future. I think that imbalance is problematic and somehow gives me hope that if we agree that the imbalance exists and we have an open debate on how to fix this problem, how to restore some kind of balance, I think we're on the right track. I think political legitimacy is a very important thing and I would like to hear more debates about it in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56703	The next debate will be a respected representative of Marijan Pavlicek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56704	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. In today's report by Prime Minister Plenkovic, we were able to see that the main theme of all meetings at European level is covid 19, which is no wonder, given that we have been in the process of this pandemic for a year and a half. However, we can also conclude that it is visiblely read from the report that the EU is one of the very three products that is extremely slow to react to some rapid and urgent changes, so six, seven months ago, the EU's citizens had no vaccine available while citizens in Great Britain, Israel, had already been given large vaccinations to the United States. Today, several months later in Croatia, there is an excess vaccine. The reason is, as the prime minister also says, a weak cleavage. However, who bears all responsibility and who is all responsible for this weak fissure. I believe that the government of the Republic of Croatia and the Civil Protection Staff is partly co-responsible. In fact, there have been more than half of the citizens involved in vaccinations due to numerous moves. So let's just remember the statement by Minister Cocric, who called all those who didn't inject with false guru, which is more than 50%. Let us also remember that Prime Minister Plenkovic decided to bind the support and measures to entrepreneurs with vacancy, while at the same time the European Commission did not condition Croatia with a split as regards the funds provided in accordance with the National Recovery Plan. Let us also remember the announcement of the leaders of the Civil Protection Staff that only those who have been vaccinated will be able to do so in the fall of the shopping malls. And of course, all those statements create reluctance with a certain portion of our fellow citizens. And all these statements add to the division of this already divided Croatian society. And I wonder what's next? Shall we mark those who have not vaccinated on the sleeve as it was in World War II of the Jews? Will we have first and second-class residents, vaccinated and unvaccinated? I think the approach to promoting the vaccine itself went completely wrong. And I'm afraid through a so-called one human approach is a one-man approach. It's nighttime science doctors who have a different opinion that introduces exactly what our defenders fought 30 years ago, against one brain. I believe that the only way to restore trust primarily in institutions is to make the vaccine as few politicians as possible, and the more scientists and experts speak, and in this way I am convinced that the percentage of vaccinated citizens will be growing and greater. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56705	The Republic has a respected representative, Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56706	I already spoke in the assembly about vaccination and campaign, and I think it is not good to criticize the vaccination and the government's insistence that as many people as possible be vaccinated from this pay phone. Is it a good thing that something is conditioned or not really wouldn't get into it, but I got sick of the crown, I got over a part of the hospital, and believe me, it's not good. It's a terrible disease. And the vaccine certainly helps to make mortality less and to make the consequences much easier. That's why it should be a message from this pay phone, people if you can vaccinate. Let it be a decision on the citizens, let it be without coercion, but to keep people inoculated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56707	Dear Representative Pavliček.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56708	Your Honor, I'm over the crown, too. I had weaker symptoms, but I still believe that if this campaign is already going, it must go in a positive direction, not make statements like certain ministers were making statements, then they create a counterproductive effect. They also share Croatian society. So you've got people who are skeptical, but you don't need to be called in media space by mischievous equinoxes and the like. And then you create simply with these individuals an extra dose of skepticism and that's how we get what we have right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56709	The Republic also has a respected representative, Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56710	Well, here's a colleague who has no intention of defending, of course, some statements from HDZ officials, but do you think it's a bigger problem if someone makes a statement that we don't agree with or is a bigger problem if we have a smaller fissure? In fact, how would you solve the fissure if you felt that only some unfortunate statements were a problem in public space? And I'm wondering if you've been vaccinated and recommending people to be vaccinated?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56711	Dear Representative Pavliček.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56712	Like this, I think everyone should be responsible for their statements especially if they are high-level officials. I believe that this problem can be solved much more effectively in a way that is discussed by experts. So the problem is primarily to be discussed by experts. The more experts talk about it, and the fewer politicians the number of vaccinated will be higher. No, I haven't been vaccinated yet, but I don't consider myself to be screwed or even-earned.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56713	The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Davor Ivo Stier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56714	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In his opening statement, the Prime Minister spoke about the future of Europe, which was one of the topics of these European councils, he also spoke about the electoral calendar. So on the September parliamentary elections in Germany, next year in the French presidential elections, how important, of course, for the new configuration of the political scene in Europe. I could add that to the situation in Italy, it has regular elections in '23, but you never know what it is common in Italy sometimes to be premature. And that triangle is, once again, I am going to repeat here extremely important to see which direction European policy will go especially about one key debate on the future of the EU. And these are fiscal rules, or what these rules will be after the pandemic. We know that these rules are now suspended. However, there may be one non-worldly but certainly idea-based difference between what you might say north and south or if you want a German and Latin part of the EU and remains in some way open which is the position of Central Europe or this Slavic to simulate. And therefore, we need to hear and study in this context what the President of Bundestaga said to Wolfgang Shable, who was before the finance minister, one of the German policies and European policies. He's been sending two important messages in the last few weeks. One needs to reduce this western part of the world's tensions with Central Europe, so we will now explain what human rights are, but perhaps open some dialogue. On the other hand, he raised the issue of fiscal discipline in one article he published in the Financial Times, demanding that strict fiscal rules return as soon as possible. In the end, clearly there will be some agreement to be sought in Europe, some compromise, but here's the interesting thing about how Shauble set those two, and two points. How did Croatia get into this? It seems to me that the position of the Republic of Croatia is responsible and is trying to make maximum use of this situation for its own interests. On the one hand, of course, the maximum use of the Future Generation Fund through its National Recovery and Resistance Plan approved. He is a reflection of this line that both the French and the Italians advocated, will continue to be as common as possible, for example. going out to the markets, they would also like common European bonds. In a way, the richer the north finances deficits and economic recovery south. On the other hand, fiscal responsibility is taken into account so as not to explode the deficit. Of course, it is also due to preparations for the euro, but also because of its own needs, and this sends again one signal of fiscal responsibility. And in this context, what we want is to take advantage of this decade which is ahead of us, better said this financial perspective of 7 years for the growth of our GDP, for the end of that important infrastructure to connect our territory, and in this context is indeed a Peljeka bridge for the financial security of the Republic of Croatia, for the physical security which will be further strengthened by the entry into Schengen and geopolitical security, and in this context I am also putting the state policy, therefore, and the government of the Republic of Croatia and the head of state towards BiH, and the reforms that are needed there, including the reform of the electoral law, in order to stabilise BiH, in order for all the constituent nations to be equal, and thus to strengthen the national security of the Republic of Croatia. Here, in this context, it seems to me that although I have raised the question of the future of the EU or some movement, and as the Republic of Croatia puts it, it seems to me that this report, not only in writing, but what the prime minister has presented to this home, is something that we should support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56715	We have a few replicas. He is the first respected representative of Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56716	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Mr Stier as a man who knows the European scene well, the functioning of the EU can often be heard in the Croatian public, in fact that Croatia is on the line when it comes to participating in any decision in Brussels within the EU, which, of course, I do not think is true. One of the greatest achievements of Croatian politics, of course, join the EU. And here's what you as a man who has devoted a lot of his career can say to such meals that do not actually contribute well to the articulation of Croatian attitudes within the EU?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56717	Your Honor, Mr. Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56718	Thank you, colleague, for that question. It also reminds me of those criticisms that we entered and unprepared, that we needed even more time perhaps, that we were today or should be in the waiting room with other countries so-called. The Western Balkans as defined in the European Commission. However, the fact is that we did not finish negotiations in 2011, if we hadn't become a full member in 2013, we would have certainly been in a much worse situation today. They would not be available to the Republic of Croatia to this resource available today. We would not have the opportunities of a single European market as we have today, not geopolitically if you wanted who we are today but would be much more exposed to all the instabilitys that unfortunately remain exposed to many of our neighbours.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56719	Dear representative Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56720	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear fellow Stier, you are, in any case, a good acquaintance of international relations and foreign policy issues. However, I would like to comment on the issue of financing the employment measures that we have discussed very, very much today. In the public space, we often find it incorrect that all employment measures, and especially these, due to the crown of the crisis, are financed from the state budget, which is not true. This is only partly true because 60% of the finances we have provided for the preservation of jobs and other measures are secured from the state budget, however 40% are from European funds. There is funding and SCHUR, etc., I think it is very important that the public knows that employment measures are being financed from both the European and the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56721	Your Honor, Mr. Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56722	That you colleagues are right, so it is funded from both European and this good part of European funds, this part, of course, critics will say and these European funds are in some way not free to the end, and they are partly because the European Commission, on behalf of the whole of the EU, has come to European markets and is in debt. However, when there is a payment, we will not simply participate in the same way as those who may have less GDP than those who have stronger ones. That's why, for example. in Germany as an engine and perhaps one of the most developed or most developed countries in the EU, many have opposed such an action, and there have been constitutional lawsuits because they did not want to pay more than they thought should be just in their concept of justice. However, this is not only good for Croatia, but it is especially good for us because it allows us to recover faster.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56723	Dear Representative Marko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56724	Thank you very much. Your Honor, you've given an analysis of the elections in certain countries. Croatia is 3 years old now without a choice and a little further deepening and giving a look, and on the geopolitical situation in Europe, and especially what we call a conflict Southeast Europe is Western we often see more differences than what brings us together. And what brings us together is much bigger and stronger, but apparently less receptive to the media. The second component to ask for the answer is the same question of borrowing. We know that the National Recovery and Resistance Programme HS has made a decision on its own resources, the first in Europe to ratify that the European Commission will be in charge of all of us. It is the same step forward in strengthening European forces in this area, but it also ensures stability and peace and prosperity.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56725	Your Honor, Mr. Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56726	Yes, an esteemed colleague of mine is the last thing you said that suggests that, according to my assessment, they are guilty of the views or the incorrect attitudes that they consider to be the so-called Central Europe. The policy of sovereignty would go in some direction towards leaving the EU. When you look at no Middle European country wants to get out of the EU, those from Southeast Europe want to join the EU in part and accepting exactly what you said, and that is that the policy that has now prevailed in this crisis is the policy that she said we are going to give new powers to the European Commission so that it can go to the world markets on behalf of the EU as a whole. If you want to technically reduce formal national sovereignty, then something is being transferred to the EU, but the de facto in that content is actually increasing the state capacity.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56727	Dear Representative Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56728	Your Honor, I think we will agree that there have been two objectives regarding fiscal policy at EU level. This is that fiscal policy is sustainable, and the other is that fiscal policy is similar between EU member states and that is to convert. The Security Pact defined that the budget deficit or that the debt should not exceed 60% and that the budget deficit should not exceed 3%. Now, where are we? We've got about 90% of our duty. Do we have a deficit right now, whether we're going to have it this year or not, is that a big question? Can we respond to these challenges or can we not respond? So the report, what it says in it, it's okay, it's just a question of whether we can answer it the right way.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56729	Your Honor, Mr. Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56730	Yes, I think that we can look with optimism at these challenges in terms of response, in understanding that at this moment as you know they are suspended and precisely because of the crisis caused by the pandemic are suspended these criteria. There's just a debate, we've discussed it several times in this assembly, and we'll see what will eventually be the final agreement, whether this suspension may be extended or modified. Of course, on the other hand, Croatia must continue to lead one responsible fiscal policy, not only because of some idea of entering or entering into Euro, which, which is also supported by this assembly. However, it would also be good for the Croatian economy not to enter into some huge deficits because sometimes you will have to pay back those debts. However, by saying that, of course, certain flexibility at this point is necessary and desirable for our development.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56731	Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56732	Good afternoon. I'm going to ask my classic question, which you've already given some answers to, but that's why we keep going back to it. So this fiscal discipline is now suspended, it's going to go back to the old one, so what to do when we have the situation again as we had in the previous period, and when the direction and way of our economy under the allegations of development was actually negative. The first thing when we talk about EU funding is always to point out that these are not enough funds for serious development at all, for example, that the United States had a budget in one year that is 4 times the EU budget in 7 years, so let's just take it when we talk about these billions then it always sounds like a rescue solution to everyone. And secondly, EU funds cannot be used as we wish. In some cases it is a directive, meaning that they cannot be used precisely for industrial policies that we would need to develop a country in those economic operators that have more added value.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56733	Your Honor, Mr. Stier. Thank you very much, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56734	But respected colleagues can be used and used, even in our National Recovery Plan for the development of new technologies, which, of course, promotes or improves production. And that's exactly what we're trying to achieve, which is that we have a more productive economy and that we can catch this wave of the fourth revolution with new technologies, in the sense that we can use these European funds as best as possible, and thus get out of this pandemic stronger and in one way that we can develop our economy by being in Croatia, and if you want to return to Europe in general the production that is during, especially in the '90s, in the good part of the east.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56735	Dear Representative Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56736	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Stier, may I return your question or your replica to me? I'd like to hear as much as possible in the time available to you, let's say what kind of a vision of your future Europe would be, so your personal one, this is an individual debate. So let's say what you would change if you could, if that were something, would you, in order for that balance that we talked about, so you would set that ratio, would you, let's say, change institutions, would it be an idea for you that was always interesting to me to have a bicameral European Parliament, would it in some way be. Here, clean as a frame of something I'd like to hear from you, so thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56737	Your Honor, Mr. Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56738	Here's a thank you for that question. It's really hard in one minute, but if you want to have a very good paper that the democratic think tank Martinez Center has prepared and where I can from later bilaterally if you want to give, but in principle that in those great things where we have common interests to perform together, for example. in the area of defence, it may intensify even integration, not in the sense of being in opposition with NATO but together with NATO, but by developing a strategic autonomy that the EU will have to say not by distancing itself but by working together with NATO and the United States, so in these great things, it is, in addition, consistently applying the principle of subsidiarity.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56739	And the esteemed representative, Ackhar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56740	Dear fellow Stier. As the predecessors have already announced in front of me and said that you are a good knower of European affairs, and that in your debate you have brought a very close picture of a European picture with your momentous approach, but I am interested, of course, in your opinion what do you say in these difficult times challenging in the position of Croatia in relation to European issues? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56741	Your Honor, Mr. Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56742	Thank you, colleague Ackhar. Well, Croatia, I think, is using its EU membership, of course, will always be able to say and could have been better or had to be better, but it uses as I said this position and this situation to develop all its national capacities. I think that this special fund is a future generation and this philosophy behind such a fund corresponds to that of course we don't want to go to any extremes thinking that here we can just put up debts and go to infinity and deficits. Of course, there should be a certain limit there, but in such a balance it can develop, complete the infrastructure to connect the country, so it is important that this project of the Pelješko bridge that will be realised, financial security, physical security, enters Schengen, and I think that Croatia can do so already for the mandate of this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56743	Now we're going to the final presentation. Thank you very much. On behalf of the Green-Left bloc's club, the first one will be addressed by respected representative Bojan Glavasevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56744	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Today's debate is ultimately quite similar to our other debates on European issues. The Prime Minister says and stays alive, doesn't see mistakes, everything is great, the misery of love defends him, the opposition attacks him. Honestly, I had much higher expectations than Andrej Plenkovic. I expected true consistency in the values he declared in the campaign that first led him to an office in the Ban Courts, these were the values of a modern moderate conservative who is loyal to the rule of law and consistent in the policy of moderation. Instead, we have received corruption affairs, concatriation and Hungarianism, the lack of any direction in European and foreign policy and the handling of pushbacks of migrants at our borders. In addition to all this puzzling struggle for the Eurozone and Schengen, pandemics, earthquakes, it is not easy for the prime minister to say this, but the prime minister is running away from what his call is, which is politics. Andrej Plenkovic of the European Parliament arrived several years ago with the halo of a moderate European conservative, allegedly well networked with European politicians and politicians who will decide tomorrow on the future of the Union. Since then, things have changed, the executive power has not gotten very good things out of Andrej Plenkovic, from tolerance and non-responsiveness to the persecution of journalists and lawsuits, soon and formally the former head of HRT, which is why Croatia has received a bad reputation in the EU, through the incarceration of its party comrades and friends by various European institutions, allegedly for the benefit of Croatia and ad maiorem dei Gloriam only so that after these people we will not get any letters or postcards. Andrej Plenkovic, allegedly a master of foreign and European politics, has appointed as minister of foreign affairs a man who clearly knows very little about the matter for whom the debates are a monument to the camp as the phenomenon of whose greatest virtue in the context of politics, so that there is no confusion I do not speak personally, the fact that he is unreservedly loyal to Prime Minister Plenkovic. Why is it that Andrej Plenkovic is better than a fellow Stier who, as many as have different views on a whole series of issues, has never said an unargumented sentence, let alone complete embalming such as to give an example, these recent statements by Gordan Grlic Radman on a declaration condemning the homophobic law of Viktor Orban. "All those declarations" I quote "which do not contribute to unity seems to me that they may bring more unrest among members," okay. The report that we discussed today very clearly outlines all the failures and shortcomings of our prime minister and his minister in European and foreign policy. In just a month, three huge failures, although some of the majority of HDZ MPs were voted on by Matic's report, were rejected amendments that wanted to reverse the EU's resolution on BiH and did not condemn Orban's destabilisation of the EU over the back of LGBT persons. There, it's an anatomy of our prime minister's failure in the EU.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56745	On behalf of the Club of Representatives, the Mosta will now finally speak to the esteemed representative Nino Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56746	My colleagues and colleagues. I will return to the scale of what we are discussing at this point, and this is the report on the meetings of the European Council on important meetings of the heads of state and on a lot of meetings. These were held on 25 and 26 February, and on 25 and 26 March, videoconferencing, then informal meeting in Port on 8 May and then meetings of the European Council held in Brussels on 24 and 25 May, and on 24 and 25 June plus meetings at the summit of the European Union on 25 June. So this is about 6-7 meetings of European leaders and as a result we get a report in which the sum of sumarum I said there are no 20 cards of text that comes down to some empty phrases of European new speech. These are the challenges, we said to repeat the material, so challenges and challenges and strengthen resilience as a counterpoint to challenges. We note in this report the avoidance of real EU problems. It was a similar thing last year. I will remind you, in a previous report on these meetings, they have not reported a single word of the Brexit that has finally been realised, but they have not asked or analysed why there has been a Brexit. What are these problems within the EU that have prompted most citizens of the United Kingdom to vote to leave the EU? And is there a community that doesn't have a minimum self-reflection, not to say self-critics any possibility of, for survival? If the real problems of the EU are touched, they call them false. We have a debacle in the initial supply of vaccines at EU level. It has once again been shown that our fates and lives are managed by incompetent bureaucrats, as Federica Mogherini, after a terrorist attack, cries at a press conference and talks about her own feelings about how difficult it is for her, the person who should protect us. Thus, those who were to obtain vaccines at first failed to obtain them, while this went without a problem both Britain and Israel and the United States and Serbia, for example. So we read that 77 in March million doses of vaccines produced on EU soil went outside the EU, and producers who produced those vaccines in other countries that had to deliver them had not delivered them to this side. And it calls Ursula von der Leyer the EU's openness unlike other calls and others to be opened. It's not openness, it's incompetence and dilettance to choose your own, your own interests. The same as altruism shows the fact that the EU will have at least 100 million doses that it will not need by the end of the year, which it will then donate if there is anyone who wants to receive that donation so that it does not have to be taken care of as medical waste. We have the same problem in Croatia. I asked the prime minister a question today about it, of course he didn't answer anything, he pulled the answer to some other quite side-by-side topics. As far as foreign policy is concerned, it doesn't exist. There is talk of Turkey, but no clear stance, so he prepared a little salt. I was talking about it today, Belarus after that turn of the plane, he says we're gonna show we're not a paper tiger, that's what he says in May and today, what it turns out to be a paper tiger, nothing was done. As for Schengen, which presents itself to us as an unquestioned good cause to the Croatian public, it should be said that Schengen does not exist in a significant way. What does it mean that Schengen doesn't exist? So as soon as there's a crisis, he's falling apart. I'm going to give two examples, the migrant big crisis in 2015. All of a sudden, there's no more Schengen than every country lifts its national borders, some army, some wire. The same thing happened when the pandemic corona started suddenly here are the national boundaries. So, Schengen is a story for little children. It works when things go well. In the first crisis situation, Schengen is gone. We are now talking about the introduction of the EUR. I've been called by the press an hour ago, asking for my opinion on the motives of the EUR coins. But I say hold on a second, question is the Eurozone going to fall apart by then? Are we going to meet the conditions for Eurozon entry? Could there be a referendum in Croatia as it has been in some countries where we will refuse the EURo? First you jump, then you say hop. It's like I'm being asked about the color of my house on Brač, and I haven't even found land on Brač yet, let alone bought land or bought material, the project even started to build. We're Eurorealists. We believe that the European Community should return to the path from which it has gone astray, which is too fast and too violent and reckless a transition from an economic community to a superstate and political union that we see in a series of examples and crisis is not working. And we will fight for it in the Croatian public, and today we are in a position for the fathers of EU founders to condemn the European Parliament with resolutions as fascists and intolerant for their views.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56747	Thank you. Finally, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Marko Pavić, will now speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56748	Thank you, well-respected Deputy Prime Minister, for the assembly, for the honor of the Secretary of State. So here's to sum up in the name of the club what we heard today. Well, I expected a lot more, I expected a lot more content, a lot more arguments, and we got ideology, misunderstanding of European processes, ignorance. This is good and the prime minister was a good part of the debate to discuss European topics every few months. Al, I am sorry to say that all of this comes down to the marginal themes that were on the margins of the European Council that are being reported, that the key resolution of Mr Fred Matic, which such on a daily basis in the European Parliament, is generated, this time she only got room for being one of the Croatian representatives, but they are non-binding. Likewise, the EU is constantly viewed in ways that we can further separate ourselves, that we attack each other without seeing what brings us all together, and then there is also a larger debate on Hungary's key topic on the sidelines. The prime minister made it very clear at the cabinet's meeting that every violence has condemned, and I have not heard that, rarely, which the prime minister so clearly condemned and violence against sexual minorities. And all of a sudden all this ideology is much more important and as if the National Recovery Programme as well as the multi-annual financial framework, as if the 747,000 doses that we received as if they had happened themselves, as if all these measures had happened by momentum. They are not and we see this in the other Member States, many Member States no longer have measures, they have not had such generous measures to support our entrepreneurs. When we look at how much we have in the next ten years, we have 24.5 billion euros in the current one. future money and another 5 billion euros in this, so 30 billion euros at our disposal, when we're just looking at the National Recovery and Resistance Programme 47.5 billion kuna 12% of GDP free. We are here at the EU Summit 3.7% is the average. This is the success of the government and the success of the Prime Minister in Brussels, which is why I find it odd that both opposition and left and right are not perceived and it is laughable, but it should be said that Croatia was able to fight for European funds, that it could react in this crisis, that it provided enough vaccines and that once again we call on citizens to be vaccinated, to ensure that it had no curfews, that we could open 11.7 billion kuna for measures as well as many other topics that were more focused on the meetings of the European Council. There is one euro or meeting at the level of the euro area prime minister where Croatia participates as a member who has entered the European exchange rate mechanism. If we hadn't entered the European Course Mechanism, we couldn't have been in such a good position. It was one of the main arguments of credit agencies to raise credit ratings in the Republic of Croatia and of those announced by the opposition that 400,000 unemployed will again be the main problem of Croatian entrepreneurs today is the import of the 125,000 unemployed today and 16,000 on today's opening day. What we see and this practice that Prime Minister Plenkovic introduced that he is coming to Parliament I think he is good, I believe that we will look at it equally, but I also call on the opposition to perceive that we have become a full member, that we know how to deal with both European bureaucracy and other countries, that we can be a good neighbour, but also that we know our values that the prime minister has very clearly articulated and said, especially for the protection of human rights and for the protection of social inclusion and all other topics. In line with the above, the HDZ Club will support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56749	Thank you very much. So I'd like to conclude a debate on this point, and we'll vote on it when the conditions are met. As we decided yesterday, we are now moving to a united discussion of the following two points, which is: - Proposal for a decision on the resolution of the head director of HRT, and - Proposal for a decision on the appointment of the acting director of HRT is proposed by the Committee on Information, Information and Media based on Article. 19th and 20th. HRT law. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. I thought the president would, but the vice president would give us an additional explanation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56756	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Information, Information and Media at its 13th session held a discussion on the resolution of the head director of HRT and made two decisions. The first decision is to dismiss the Director-General and the second is to appoint the HRT Director-General. the first decision has been taken on the basis of Article 1(1); 81. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia 20th century 6th subparagraph 7. The Law on HRT and proposes to the HS to take a decision on the resolution of the head director of HRT at the session to follow. First, HRT chief director Kazimir Bačić and second are relieved, the decision will be published in the National Journal and will take effect on the day of its adoption. Explanation at point one, by provision of Art. 20th century 6th subparagraph 7. Law on HRT NN No. Regulation (EU) No 137/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013 laying down detailed rules for the application of Council Regulation (EC) No 2111/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2111/2005 (OJ L 348, 30.12.2016, p. 1). Since HRT chief director Kazimir Bačić has been arrested in a recent police and USKOK action, he is charged with the crime of trading with influence from art. 295. The Penal Code NN No. 125/2011, 144/2012, 56/2015, 61/2015, 101/2017, 118/2018 and 126/2019 The HRT Supervisory Board decided to initiate its resolution procedure for breach of HRT's reputation. With respect to the presumption of innocence, however, the Supervisory Board considers that in the new circumstances when an investigation is carried out against him on grounds of reasonable doubt in the initiation of a serious crime, Kazimir Bačić is no longer credible in carrying out the duties of the head director of HRT or representing and representing an extremely important institution such as HRT, the only public media service in the Republic of Croatia. Regulation (EU) No 515/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005 (OJ L 348, 30.12.2013, p. 1). The 20th century is the 7th century. The HRT Act is prescribed that the procedure for the resolution of the head director of the HRT is initiated by the Croatian Supervisory Board and the proposal for the resolution of the head director of the HRT is submitted by the Information, Information and Media Committee of the Croatian Parliament. At its 48th session held on 2 July 2021, the HRT Supervisory Board decided to open the procedure for the resolution of the Croatian Director-General for which the Information, Information and Media Committee of the Croatian Assembly established this proposal with an explanation proud of the Croatian Assembly in its 13th session, held on 7 July 2021. In addition to point 2, the reasoning shall determine the publication and entry into force of this Decision. The second decision taken at the same session under item 2, also after a somewhat heated debate both by the opposition and by the rulings, was related to the proposal for a decision to be appointed V.D. HRT's director as a replacement for Mr. Bačić, the opposition considered that there were some problems, ruling that there were no problems and after the vote, a proposal for a decision on the appointment of the head director of HRT was made. On the basis of Art. 81. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia Article 19(a)(4) Law on HRT, National No. 137/2010, 76/12, 78/16, 46/17, 73/17 and 94/18, the Croatian Assembly at its next meeting decided on the appointment of the head director of HRT. The term of office of HRT chief director Renato Kunić and others will be appointed, the decision will be published in the National Journal and will take effect on the day of its adoption. So I'm going to read the argument again since we know that the argument is about the director's shift, as we said in the first point, and what was adopted unanimously on the Information, Information and Media Committee, the second decision was not adopted unanimously, adopted by 7 votes "yes" and votes "against". And that's about the report from the Committee on Information, Information and Media, and I hope we can discuss this point in particular. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56757	Thank you very much. I am opening the debate and the first one on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Mosta will speak to the esteemed representative Nino Rasudiæ, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56758	My colleagues and colleagues, in this painful situation, the embarrassing situation where the chief director of the public service service was arrested as a last thief and accused of carrying some mob jobs, serving as a courier with a bag, that he had an apartment in Radic Street in the centre of Zagreb for these services, and I will remind myself that most of the population of Croatia is, alone, the purchase of the apartment and the settlement of the living financial project, and here, according to these charges, it is obtained as a pinkie for the intervention and carrying of the bag. So, in a situation that is deeply embarrassing for public service, and also for us, for the Parliament that appoints the head director of HRT, we have one bad and one good news. The bad news is that according to the Law on HRT adopted by the SDP of its own time, we will return to it, we do not have a legal stand for the replacement of the Director-General or we still do not have the good news that we are the legislator and that here today we are not giving legal interpretation because we cannot give it but we are making one political judgment and we are going to make a political decision because we appoint it, we can also resolve it and therefore today we have called this point. We respect the presummation of innocence, but the case is more complex. We have to assume that Mr. Kazimir Bačić is an honest, perfectly moral and pure man. And that there's been some tragic set of circumstances and misunderstandings in the investigation and that they've misconnected and put him in jail and are investigating him now. How would a decent person act in that situation? She would resign herself until she washed that mark off her name and cheek and when it was proved to be a clean and innocent man she would ask him to return to that function. And what does Mr. Kazimir Bacic do? It activates the vacation. We received on the board a request from the Supervisory Board for Mr Kazimir Bačić's replacement with the wrong explanation. The explanation was that he needed to be replaced because he could not carry out his duty. And what does a man do? He's taking an annual vacation, and then he can say, "Well, look, I'm on vacation last year, and I was on vacation for 20 or a month, and I'm cut, so how did I do my duty?" That argument comes out of our hands, but I'll say it again, we're legislators. We are now not making a legal interpretation but a political judgment and a political decision to defend the ugly reputation of the public tv service, but also us bodies appointed by the head director of HRT. This is an opportunity to talk about the situation on HRT, I'm going to repeat some of the things I said when we were here discussing the programming council and the supervisory board. This 2012 HRT Act, I repeat, has brought forward SDP's power, i.e. then the Kukuriku coalition, contrary to the recommendations made by the European Commission, which, by the way, listened in an unspeakable manner in those years. They then had a comfortable majority and passed a law that greatly increased the powers of the principal and the way in which he was elected, usually by the parliament. According to the 2010 law, we did not have a director-in-chief, but rather an HRT administration consisting of a president and two members. According to the old Law, the President of the Board appointed the Programme Council and the Supervisory Board of the HRT at a joint session of two-thirds majority and on the basis of a public tender. The Programme Council and the Supervisory Board also decided to resolve the administration on a proposal by a majority of the members of the Supervisory Board as well as the Programme Council. By amending that law, which occurred in 2012, the administration replaced the Director-General with increased powers which he included in the appointment of editors of individual programmes. HRT is thus placed under direct political control. It is saddened that this happened then with the support of civil society associations, including the Croatian Journalist Society, which then took place in Bačić's time half a year or a year ago when we discussed the struggle against the monster framework that they created and supported themselves because they didn't think then, the left power with them was closer that the beating had two ends and would not forever be in their hand, i.e. They're closer to political options. And so today I appeal, it doesn't matter what happened, which is ours, we need to think about making a quality new law on HRT, and that the story doesn't depend on who has the moment of majority in the Parliament, but to give dignity to that public TV service. Goran Radman was then embroiled from the communist naphthaline, the type the minimum Lustration Act would have disabled because he was headed by TV Zagreb since '87. When political migrants were still being killed and people were being sent to prison for verbal delinquency, and he was supposed to return to some professional standards of television, but well, what was, there was, then the power fell, he fell too. Now, despite the announcements that they would change the law then HDZ, seeing those after Plenkovic and Obulen Koržinek, it is good for them to take that beating into their own hands and so they took it, instead of Radman only, Kazimir Bačić came and not only Kazimir Bačić but also the circle of his associates, among which is Renato Kunić, which we will reach in point 2. The programme council becomes completely unnecessary, unnecessary, they cannot be shown about the programme before it is broadcast, the broadcast programme can only express an opinion that no one has to formally... So it was a lex Radman they could call lex Bačić in the last few years, anyway. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We discussed it here, took a major procedure to switch to non-profit accounting, past the knowledge and approval of the supervisory board, and then after an affair of sexual harassment and abuse that was entertained by the public for weeks, ruined anyway the low reputation of the public service, the Supervisory Board asked the Director of Bačić to establish an independent investigative body, he refused. Then I asked why, why it refuses, is something wrong, something to cover up, which would be against an independent investigation. The Ministry of Finance asked the Director-General to switch to non-profit accounting gave a negative opinion, that it would complicate the matter but then something happened, and they explained that the Director-General had asked them for a meeting and explained it orally, and he still agrees. So very strange things have happened, and now we might see why. Who's the one who's been uraging, and why'd they change their mind? Why were there blurry jobs covered up, why were the charges of sexual harassment and abuse covered up? I said it in that debate, I'll repeat it again, I think the deal was next. You do the Bačić click and the rest of the HRT which you want and manage with 1.3 billion kuna, reregister, feed unnecessary external productions, do not only past the Supervisory Board but also against what the Supervisory Board tells you, when a sexual abuse worker is organized a meeting to which the accused and abuser are called, all of it was okay. We will tolerate and cover all of this by ruling you, not me, even on the Committee of Resorbs at our own expense and why, because you will put the information program into our service. That the HRT is in the service of the ruling and it's on a shameful cartoon level, we've already spoken. I gave the example, it became a party in the people to guess on which topic would be opened in the days when the difficult affairs of the ruling ones were revealed. So the day millions of cash were discovered in the trunk, the topic in the Open is the national football stadium and the most common wildcard theme in the Open was about what the tourist season would be. It can burn Croatia that day, let's talk about tourism, that's what HRT is about. The people laugh, and then we wonder why commercial TV in foreign ownership, according to the ratings of the information program, beats the HRT. So, we don't have a legal foothold in the law, but we are making political as legislator of judgment and a decision to replace Kazimir Bačić because this is an embarrassing situation that is destroying the reputation of the public service. First point closed. The second point, we received point 2 on the board and completed the proposal and biography of the V.D. of Renat Kunić. Renato Kunić is a close associate of Kazimir Bačić. What does that mean? Does that mean the continuity of this team? What kind of message do we send to the public? Is that in direct conflict with this explanation that I gave for point 1. In addition, Renato Kunić is also the godfather of Resolute Minister Obulen Koržinek, so I can only say that if V.D., and this can be extended for a year, it will probably be, until things are covered up, if v.d. She must already be the best man of Minister Objaljen Koržinek, does she have at least some godfather who wasn't a narrow part of Bačić's click? This is where I end up, and from that we will support the first point of Bačić's shift, but we will not support the choice of VD Renat Kunić because we believe it must be the person outside those circles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56759	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives will be one of the Croatian sovereigns, and Croatia's respected representative Zekanovic will speak. He's gone, he's losing his right to speak, so he'll speak on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, the esteemed representative of Peja Grbin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56760	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I don't think I'll surprise anyone absolutely when I say that the situation on HRT is bad, not bad, but catastrophic. And it's not since yesterday, it's been so long for years. And the irony of fate is that ultimately the director-in-chief of Croatian radio television will be resolved not because his job as director was being misbehaved but because of something we can call outside of teaching activities. He will eventually be resolved for what he did in the joint. And he served in fuš as teklic the late Mayor of the City of Zagreb Milan Bandić and made quite good money for it. But back to his core business, back to that job he was doing and that's why he should actually be resolved. The fact is that Mr. Bacic's appointment was a political agreement between HDZ and the MOST four years ago. Yes, it was a political agreement, we practically until ourselves, until the debate itself, we didn't know if it was achieved, who would eventually end up as director of HRT. And as director, a man whose main characteristics and main motive to be chosen were not the quality of his work, but the quality of his acquaintances and his personal relationships. And that's it. He was a man who was willing to do the job. And that job's been going bad since day one. HRT has become a spokeswoman of the government, the quality of the program has collapsed, and of course, as it usually does with the quality of the program, ratings has fallen. HRT has turned into a house that sues its own journalists and Croatia for that reason, in front of international journalists' associations, continuously ends up on a pillar of shame. He constantly ends up at a pillar of shame because a public institution is showing that a public institution is blocking people from doing their job, an important job for a democratic society. And that's timely, timely and true intelligence of what's going on in the country. At the same time, while some journalists are being sued, others are being fired or both are being sued and fired. It's a special feature of HRT in Mr. Bačić's day. Journalists get fired, then they get sued, journalists get sued, they go back to HRT, they have to be paid interest backs, of course, and then they get fired again, all in order for this round to happen again. And who's paying for it? The subscribers, the citizens of this country. And nothing to anyone. We in the SDP, of course, support Mr Bačić's resolution, of course, but not just for the reasons set out in the proposal from the competent committee. The reasons are much wider. I have listed some of them so far, and with the reasons why we support this resolution decision I must conclude with what should have long been a concrete reason for Mr. Bacic to get his leg. If the fact that HRT has turned public service into an HDZ spokesman institution, HDZ cannot be the reason for the resolution for very objective reasons, then the fact that Mr Bacic has been hiding the abuse and harassment on HRT should be a reason for any honest and well-meaning in this country to move this man out of position. If the fight against abuse is not just a dead letter on paper, then it must be translated into concrete measures and take action against those who protect this abuse, who hide this abuse, and who allow abusers to laugh at their victims. Mr. Bacic was such a person. And that's why he has to leave. In the end, we will realize that man will get a solution because he could not appear at work. And that's a certain poetic justice because as his entire mandate was, that's also his solution. We in the SDP therefore welcome this decision and we will vote for it. But just as we will vote for Mr. Bačić's resolution, we cannot support Mr. Kunic's appointment. Let's look at the work he's been doing today. Director of HRT programme, director of HRT programme, a house that has not had a work programme for 2 years. He can't bring in a program. HRT is unable to adopt a work programme because there is a serious noise in communication between the Supervisory Board, the Programme Council, the Director-General. And we, the man who's supposed to be in charge of the HRT program that I'm going to repeat once more for two years can't bring in now we need to improve. It's totally unacceptable. I already said the quality of the HRT programme collapsed to the lowest branches, to the level of what was in the 1990s under the Kosovo Process and similar. The quality of the program is dropping, the ratings are dropping, and then we're going to reward the person in charge of that program by improving it. Dear colleagues and counterparts of the appointment of Renat Kunic will be just a continuation of the decline of HRT. And as anyone who has any hold on what HRT should be, not what it is, but what it should be must support Mr. Bačić's decision to resolve, so in exactly the same way he should not support the decision to appoint Mr. Kunic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56761	The next Club of Representatives will be the green-left block, and time will be shared by respected representatives William Matula and Bojan Glavasevic. First of all, the esteemed representative of Matula. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56762	Thank you, Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Prime Minister Plenkovic here today insists that the timely election of HRT chief director Kazimir Bačić has nothing to do with him or his government because the chief director is elected by the Parliament. Of course, under the Law on HRT, legally, I feel the same way that it can say the same that this same Parliament confirms the government, confirms the executive power, confirms Mr Plenkovic as prime minister and his closest minister, the minister of high trust of Prime Minister Obuljen Koržinek. The prime minister earlier today de facto, within the last item of the agenda, says that support for employers for the preservation of jobs is not allethical, so they don't think it's a coincidence but to know exactly who made it and how most of the prime minister's wise decision made it all. However, it has nothing to do with the appointment of Kazimir Bacic or his deputy godmother of his minister's highest trust, Obuljen Koržinek. However, in the morning before this committee which made its decision that morning, the media noticed, of course, that we too noticed on the Committee, we had to notice it. Just before the Committee, both the prime minister and the minister speak of how they are convinced that the Committee will make the decision as it has made it, which means at a ratio of 7-4. I guess they found out it was such an atmosphere, but the board met, thought for a long time. They didn't want Plenkovic, let alone the minister, to burden himself with his problems. Because they know they can't even tell the Prime Minister that he can't think about it, let alone the Minister of the Godfather of Mr. Kunic, who has already said everything his colleagues have said. And that's how the board brought it. We were later surprised on the Committee because they came with a biography and with everyone and we were told there that we too could ask around, which we did. Of course there are candidates on HRT, but that didn't occur to us normally. And so Renato Kunic is the deputy director-in-chief so far. I'm thinking about Mr. Bačić, maybe I'll say one more word, but it's really all said. But the fact that Renato Kunic is the deputy director-in-chief of the programme's so far, the director-in-chief of the programme, Mr. Grbin, said what his programme was and that he had not been approved for two years. But together with the editor-in-chief of the programme, Bruno Kovacevic and business director Mislav Stipic, who is responsible for the abuses, for sexual harassment. Those who attended and heard Bacic act and unimaginably arrogantly performed at the meeting of the three committees, the parliamentary committees precisely for sexual abuse of HRT journalist and Dnevnik's host. He boasted there about how he personally conducted the investigation and eventually faced Mr. Stipic. The serial prosecutor, 36 charges against journalists, would then claim the minister had been stopped. Yeah, after the whole town was passed by all the reporters and after they were protesting and then everything was told to stop after 36. But yes, of course he continued against the Zodka Croatia and further. Bacic's performance on the Media Committee when defending the annual report is not to be said because the report never came to the plenary session. It was so embarrassing including Mr. Renat Kunić there as he performed. And now finally, I want to say that at that meeting the three committees relativized, banalised the charges at the expense of what's going on on HRT in the matter of sexual abuse, mobbing above all equally as the minister answers the direct question of the leader Stankovic on Sunday at 2 p.m., banalizing a criminal application for mobing against the HNK's ingenuity of Dubravka Vrgoč, which the police after having conducted an investigation against the intelligence police have filed with the DORH. That's what's common in the minister's policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56763	The respected representative Bojan Glavasevic will continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56764	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. From this pay phone, I announced to Kazimir Bačić a year and a half ago what would happen to him if he didn't get in line. I said that he would be brought into order by the institutions of the judiciary, and unfortunately I was right. The opposition proposed Bacic's shift on the Media Committee, and the ruling party accepted it. What do you have left of your colleagues and colleagues? Kazimira Bačića was caught by UskoK and by the flagrante delicto or by the fingers in the jam peopleally speaking. Kazimir Bačić shares in political and professional terms the fate and status of that late parrot from the famous drawing of Monty Python's Flying Circus. That's why I don't want to talk about him today. I want to talk about what's next and what most of us have suggested. You are proposing to appoint Renato Kunić as acting director of the Croatian Broadcasting Programme and acting as acting official, proposed by Kazimir Bačić. proposed by Kazimir Bacic. In other words, you suggest that the man to whom Kazimir Bačić trusted, is currently the address Remetinec, continues without restrictions to manage HRT until the election of the new principal. It's in the least problematic and political and stupid. This is not the only problem with Renato Kunic, the second problem lies in the fact that Kunić is the married godfather of the culture minister and the media Nina Obuljan Koržinek, which in the case of Kunić's appointment brings them into conflict of interest, again problematic, apolitical and stupid. The biggest problem with the proposal that Renato Kunić manages HRT for the next few months lies in the fact that HRT has been broadcasting a programme for two years for which both the programme council and the supervisory boards have given a negative opinion. So, 2 bodies in which the majority of HDZ people could not give a positive opinion on the programme that Renato Kunic is in charge of. So, to sum up, you suggest the man who was Bačić's man of the highest confidence, which would by choice be v.d. came into conflict of interest, which has for years failed to get a positive opinion of the programme council and the supervisory board for what it is in charge of. You propose to a man like this to give a billion and a half kuna to citizens and citizens of Croatia. So let me ask you colleagues and colleagues, are you sponsors of incompetent, corrupt and corrupt, or are you simply masochists and political analphabets who are so great at being drawn up by citizens and the media for human resources? Do you really care so little about what people are going to say about this disastrous proposal? My colleagues and colleagues, in any other country, if the headmaster had been caught carrying a bribe to a politician in a bag, he would not only fly the same day, but the entire administration would fly out. In another country, the administration would resign because it's the minimum protection of your cheeks in a situation where your direct superior who chose you and placed you there has fallen to duty because of corruption, but not this administration. This administration has no face because if it had, they would have resigned after a report by the Supervisory Board that you replaced in the previous assembly session because they warned of the criminal actions of this administration on HRT. The proposal for Renato Kunić to be V.D. is to continue the continuity of the administration of Kazimir Bačić. And to last one day, it's too long, too long.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56765	The next Club of Representatives will be the HDZ, and the respected representative Goran Ivanovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56766	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I am always amazed by that part of the reverse mind that is often used here in the Croatian Parliament. Now again, the loudest ones who have changed something that was good and that everyone swears they should come back again. By 2012, we had a law that clearly spoke one thing. The Assembly shall elect a programming council, the Assembly shall elect a Supervisory Board, and the Supervisory Board and the Programme Council shall be elected by the Chair of the Management Board and the members of the Management Board. Then we said no. Then we will choose the head director of HRT, and then the programme council will no longer have the powers it had until then, so it is often used in the debate that the programme council did not accept the programme that Kazimir Bačić proposed. I, too, finally and as a member of the Committee on Information, Information and Media, agreed. I believe that HRT and what happened was not good, is not a reflection of the public service, the largest public service in the Republic of Croatia, at the end of the day and the only public service. Kazimir Bačić has been taken away, which is why we still don't know, and we should be interested in that right now. He probably did what he shouldn't do, so some people who are investigating came for him and the supervisory board could make the only excessive decision, which is to suggest that Kazimir Bačić be removed from the position of HRT director. What's going on here, I absolutely don't see it. I don't know why, but we're replacing him and that's fine. What is the measure of this whole story and what must be the measure of this whole story is that on Thursday, when we declare the resolution of Kazimir Bačić as the perpetrator or head director of HRT and appoint the acting director of HRT the next day, the Supervisory Board immediately announces a public call for the selection of the new director or director of HRT. It is only correct and only important what should happen when it comes to this procedure regarding the resolution of the head director of HRT. And I welcome and members of the board all hailed exactly that decision. Dispute was about it, we as a majority suggested that the acting director until the election of the new director or director of HRT be Mr. Kunic. It was the only thing that was a distraction, but that's the way it was. It is our proposal that Mr. Kunić be the acting officer and do so only in the interest of electing a new director or new director of HRT. I'm also going to say what I think is very important, and here often it can be reversed, which is that it would be good to go back to that structure again, or the law that was up to that 2012. I think it's much better, that then both the programming board and the board of directors in that sense have much greater powers, that they can control, whether they say they're going to call it the CEO will be called management and the management president can control such a man. And I will agree, of course, with those and those who listened to my debate when we discussed the 2018 Croatian Radio Television Report, which, in itself, is already part of the funny thing to do in the 21st debate on the 18th I just said, Croatian Radio Television is that we also love Croatia licensed. Is that program too? We bought a license. We don't know how to build our own program. That's not true. On Croatian Radio, especially on Croatian Radio, which is certainly the best segment of this whole story are made by excellent professionals, people who know their jobs can only unfortunately not get expressions because it is easier to get, buy, pay and let's be honest Croatian radiotelevision spends a billion and 400 million kunas, which are mainly paid by citizens of the Republic of Croatia through television subscription, and the smaller remnant is from that economic and propaganda part. Therefore, here is, in the name of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, I firmly reject all these meals that are trying to impute the HDZ for anything that we support, of course, the shift of Kazimir Bačić from the head of Croatian Television. We propose Mr. Kunić as acting director of Croatian Radio and ask the Supervisory Board of Croatian Radio Television to issue a public call Thursday after the vote for the selection of a new director, and we as a Committee, regardless of what the constitutional break will be until September 15th, we are at the disposal of the Supervisory Board. When the résumés arrive, when everything we need to be prepared to hold talks with potential candidates, and already in this first session of the autumn session, here is a decision on who will be the new director of Croatian Radio Television. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56767	The next Club of Representatives will be that of the SDSS, and the Honorable Representative Milorad Pupovac will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56768	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I'm not going to talk about Mr. Bačić because I think he's in the past, nor am I going to talk about Mr. Kunić because I don't think he's the future. But I intend to talk about how to get Croatian broadcasting out of the state of neither the past nor the future, because it seems to me that Croatian broadcasting has been in this state for a long time, perhaps a little closer to the past than the future. Anyone who is in the Croatian Radio Television Building, anyone who has entered a studio or a newsroom, anyone who knows what Croatian Radio Television looked like during the previous years actually sees a fall. We don't see any modernization, we don't see any modernization. All we see is the battle of prey. The battle is led by a church. The battle is being fought by the Secret Service. The battle is being fought by political parties and the battle is being fought by petty mechanics such as those for which we were to gather together today, one of them, and this is not a public service. It's simply prey for different interests. How to transform Croatian broadcasting that all these interests have a place of their own, and to get in the right sense form of public service is actually a serious issue for us. How to refresh the technological, programming, educational Croatian radiotelevision, how to refresh the education of journalists and to make a journalistic profession on Croatian radiotelevision a profession that holds up to itself, which has knowledge, skills, which does not go through any snellurs, courses but finishes something that is serious and lasts while the call is going on, while the business has no regrets. Honored with exceptions to individual programs, individual shows. But this does not make Croatian broadcasting in the full and true sense of that word. I used to talk here a lot, and we often talked on committees about what the situation is when it comes to finance. We know that the situation is not good not only because money is constantly missing, but because we don't even know how that money is spent. Not just because there are extra people, but actually because we don't know what these people are doing. Not only because we do not know how and how to modernise Croatian radio television, but because we are fighting battles over which director he will be, who will be a member of this or that programme council. It's about a picture of our overall relationship to the choice of those who will act as public functions. It's not Kazimir Bacic's fault he found himself in that position. It's the ones who work there, and it's our choice. Yes, that's true for me too, and that's why neither I nor my club will receive support next if we don't have a clear program, and a clear profile of man and a clear structure of the new leadership of Croatian radio television. It's not just one man who's fallen asleep in this case, it's simply a whole nomenclature that's not dysfunctional and unproductive. Unlike some colleagues, I have nothing against socialism, but HRT looks like a ruined socialist enterprise. 30 years ruined. Which hasn't been transformed into anything better than constantly collapsing into something worse. And that needs to be changed. I'm sorry that in this case, people who hold on to their jobs, whether on the radio or on TV. I'm sorry that there are people who are certainly not doing this, but the good part of those who are affecting how it's going to work, what it's going to look like, what it's going to be, is that's exactly what it's going to be. They are actually a bigger problem for HRT than a man who is now in the past because thanks to their internal guesses and conjectures, such a man could have come to the position of director, who neither about the finances nor about the programme, nor about anything apparently had enough knowledge. And he didn't even have moral internal responsibilities. Therefore, if we want to save HRT as a public service, then we need to focus not only on tendering, which I agree with my colleague Jovanovic that it is necessary to quickly and necessarily, we need to actually make a change in the number of people involved in the design of what HRT is, in business terms, programming terms, in technological terms, in terms of modernisation and in terms of education of journalists and the development of public service. Most public services, regardless of whose paw they might be under, look better in the countries of our region than our television seems unfortunately. On other public services in European countries, I will not waste words, despite competition, they are maintained. We're not doing it. And this Parliament should simply ask the question whether we have the strength to transform HRT and public service with our political decisions or to say no, we don't have those powers, bring it back to the government that provides its own decisions with resources, bring it back to whoever can do it and this agony that this medium is going through, I don't think any of us should support it. I'm saying agony because I don't know what year ago that I said I wouldn't talk about HRT anymore because I know a series of prime ministers who wanted to destroy it, including this one who's talking today about Yutel, taking personal interests. In other words, the Club of Representatives of the SDSS will support what the Committee on Information and Media is as conclusions but on everything else will be very, very scrupulously involved in the debate and think twice about what it will support because another decision that will lead to the collapse of the public service will certainly not support us. This, of course, will not apply only to HRT, will apply to any next decision concerning public interest and public funds and public policies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56769	The next Club of Representatives will be that HSS and the Workers' Front and will be spoken by the esteemed representative Krešo Beljak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56770	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Allow me a few sentences on behalf of the Club of Assembly Representatives of the HSS and the Workers' Front. HRT, with many Croatian shames, has indeed turned a lot of Croatian shame into one of the biggest Croatian shames that exist in the first place. I'm saying it because it's an institution that was once the leader of not only Croatia, not only the former state of Yugoslavia, but would dare say all of Eastern Europe. There since the time of Mr. Marty, so the leader, the innovator in everything. I remember in 1990 when I was in the army in the eastern part of the country then, when all the TV Zagreb then saw as the most positive thing that exists throughout Eastern and Southeast Europe. What happened? It happened that instead of Western television, national televisions such as the ARD or the URF or so on, if their role model to HRT had become not Eastern European television but would have dared to say far east Asian television, there some North Korea and so forth. The fact that HRT performs from year to year, the worse and worse it is disaster and shame, the shame of shame, so not only is it not a public service, it is a 1/1 service on a very rude primitive hidden way of serving the ruling, exclusively ruling. I could talk about my personal experiences, but I won't, I'll talk about the experiences of some other opposition politicians who can't even smell on HRT, I can't get an absolute minute of space on the so-called. Public service. I've been called many times. I'd be lying if I said I wasn't often a guest as an opposition politician, but honoring the exceptions that called me to really talk to me about any topic. Mostly it was a provocation. Knowing who edits the program is no wonder. These are people who rode with former HDZ presidents on buses, hugged, kissed in secret. So, absolutely unhindered. The things that were happening there, and they are related to a type of policy of a particular contract, the tantiums will know better about what I'm talking about with some people close to the ruling party, life-long, then family and so are the absolute shame of the shame called Croatian Television or as President Milanovic says "jutel" if I think it's too mild. More like the Central Television Alliance of the Socialist Soviet Republics of the Soviet Union. Is that what it was called? Central TV? The TV of Moscow and Leningrad, if I remember it together. Not to be too long. Our Club of Assembly Representatives, now you'll be surprised, will not support Mr. Bačić's shift, not because we think he's good, not because we don't think he deserves his address in Remetinco now, as Mr. Glavasevic said, but because he's not going to change anything. Absolutely nothing will change with the arrival of someone else who will have the same political background, the same people will choose it. Not me, Mr. Pupovci. You said you chose him. I'm not like they chose Mr. Bacic. That is one reason we will not support, and of course we will not support the other part, which is the appointment of Mr. Kunić. And the second reason is that I personally believe that Mr. Kazimir Bačić is the right mirror of the ruling and that kind of man should remain at the head of the public so-called. the public under quotes of the service as a mirror of the ruling. And one more thing. The shame is paid by Croatian citizens a billion and 200 thousand, 200 million kuna annually by Croatian citizens. More? 300, 400. I came up with a billion kuna and 200 million kunas with about 800 million kunas being citizens and a 400 million kuna economy. So that shame should be kept to ourselves by the ruling. Nothing's gonna change there anyway. Even if someone else comes to power, it's gonna be hard for that mastodon to stop and move. So, it needs to be removed from the back of Croatian taxpayers that's my point of view. For this we will fight to abolish the subscription, so let Bačić, Kunić, whoever wants to implement their ruling policy but not at the expense of Croatian taxpayers, or people who are persecuting to pay those 80s or how many kunas already mandatory subscriptions. In Croatia, this subscription should not exist and should be advocated for the cancellation of the subscription, so let Croatian Radio or whatever it is called, do whatever it wants and guide it whoever it wants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56771	The next Club of Representatives will be the Homeland Movement, and will be spoken by a respected representative and vice president of this high house, Miroslav Škoro. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56772	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, on behalf of the Homeland Movement Club, I would rather not participate in this debate. I think it kind of reflects the attitude we're about to take. We'll still think about it, but in general, I think we'll be restrained. I don't know if any of you ever quit. That's exactly what we're doing today. The Croatian Parliament is an employer and Mr. Bačić. So he's giving him a kind of layoff. However, there are rights of workers. I don't know if you've asked yourself, and where does Mr. Bacic go after this procedure? Do you even know where Mr. Bacic is right now, Kazimir, not this other one? He is currently on vacation and be sure that soon enough, and it will come very soon to initiate a procedure that will require certain damages and will receive the process. That's why we'll be held back, because this whole thing together like it wasn't well prepared the moment Mr. Bačić was appointed because he was until then if I wasn't wrong about the head of the technique. Perhaps he is now returning to the position of head of technology on Croatian radio television? I don't know. We'll see. That's not how it is now. I don't want to defend anyone or accuse anyone. However, I believe that Croatian broadcasting is a matter of national security. It is a public service which you have written down here, has the duty to be television or to work for all or for every citizen of the country in which it works, and with its programme to address all citizens regardless of the age, education or purchasing power, to be a public broadcaster intended for all the public who also finances it and controls it and that it does not have to take care of the interest of shareholders but to provide a service to everyone in society. So Croatia's broadcasting is ours, at least that's how it should be. It is written on the pages of Croatian Radio Television, and generated by the Law on Croatian Television. And such television that is important, which is important every little bit of being by the ruling thanks to now less important with left or right some laws left to individuals who lead very, very irresponsiblely. And then no one knows anything as well as every time our Prime Minister does. It's none of his business. That's not what he was involved in. He knows nothing that could compromise his position as he creates himself to go back to the European Union structures. However, the Prime Minister, as well as the president of the state, as well as the ruling party, has the mechanisms to know something after all. There's a DORH. The DORH has USKOK, has police, has directoral police, he has PNUSKOK, has SOA, has SOA, has at least the Law on the Security Intelligence System of the Republic of Croatia which clearly states on the tasks of achieving cooperation between the presidents of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia in directing the work of security intelligence agencies is responsible for the National Security Council, and for operational coordination of work, coordination of the work of security intelligence agencies advice on the coordination of security intelligence agencies, this is referred to in Article 1(2). And why am I saying that? Because it's impossible if someone's the Prime Minister or the president of the state doesn't know anything. It is impossible for the simple reason that at all coordinations someone must come and warn the Prime Minister without entering the affairs of investigators and percentages and the reconnaissances that are being conducted that there is a problem. That there was a problem as there was a problem with the appointment of the Director of JANAF, in which such, adoptions of any reports, including the appointment and business of the HRT because he is, the director is the one who draws up annual financial reports and then these financial reports go through the parliament again, and as far as I can see, certain percentages of this type have been given the consent of the Croatian Parliament, which is the employer of the man we are talking about today, whose resolution we are therefore discussing. It's impossible and it's one fact that no one knew anything because Mr. Kazimir Bacic was subsequently arrested. He is part of a larger process in which he was to remind the late mayor Milan Bandic, who was a man who was ill at midnight on February 27th of this year, and then passed away on February 28th. He's been tapped for life, he's not tapped posthumously. He was tapped we know that in 2019 in the Agram affair and we have even leaked phonograms. He was tapped in 2020 by this in his car and in a restaurant in Zagreb's Gracans. And so as it's possible that no one, and I mentioned all those who might not have come and told some man, doesn't have to directly to the Prime Minister, keep an eye on certain processes, there are certain actions that indicate that there are compromised people that you continue to hold on to functions or you redeploy them to those functions. I think the best thing that's said in this whole story is what last name Branko Bačić said when he talked about Kazimir Bačić, he said this is what I'm going to quote. The question is whether it will be resolved, etc., he said he had already discussed the issue of the HRT Supervisory Board, and tomorrow a meeting of the Assembly Media Committee is scheduled, so a session is scheduled where people should discuss it in an argument and we will come to some conclusion. Therefore, the decision was taken and a session was scheduled to decide on the resolution of the current director, Kazimir Bačić, and the appointment of the acting director. So, in advance, a man knows. That's genius, that's our democracy. The president of the biggest club in advance knows there will be a session where someone will be resolved. We can't accept that kind of work in the Homeland Movement. We're trying to make some kind of pluralism of thinking that we're not all the same, we're not all thinking the same, we're getting to a minimum of consensus. The way you do it, the way it leads, according to the one-mindedness that will result in Mr. Kazimir Bačić getting compensation from HRT, you can be sure of that. Therefore, here are the messages to the entire public The Home Movement Club will be restrained when it comes to Mr. Bačić's resolution because we did not even participate in his appointment. And he will also be restrained by the appointment of a man who should be his successor because I think my colleagues and speakers before me have best shown what this is about so I don't repeat myself. What I would have just said as an addendum is that I was so taught that it is worth finally saying something that is as interesting as ever and you leave the best song at the end, the fact is that we are replacing Xenia Urličić's son-in-law, and we are trying to install the godfather of our married Minister Mrs. Obuljen. So much for us, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56773	She will now speak on behalf of the Club of the Centre and GLAS, respected representative Marijana Puljak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56774	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, therefore, should not have waited for the arrest but Mr Kazimir Bacic should have been removed long ago for the status of the HRT. So, because of the devastation of the public or let's call it here the real name of the party, the media service and therefore not only him but all of his associates who are equally responsible for what's going on on HRT today. So, I've been in this assembly several times and from this place during this year, this year my first term here in the assembly and here on behalf of the club and through free speech, I've warned about the state of the HRT. The HRT programme has been contaminated by revisionist outbursts, an information programme of HTV which employees themselves call dissimilarly, a government bulletin, non-transparently managed by public money, an affair of sexual harassment whose epilogue is not yet known, the performance and the director of a session of the 2 committees being discussed. So, to the specific questions he has done about this, these scandals were simply stuttered by man, on no particular question was given any concrete answer, embarrassing lawsuits against journalists and publishers, which made Croatia a common topic of European and international organisations following the state of freedom of the media, a major press protest from 2019, on which the shift of leadership at the head of Bačić was requested, so all of this was not enough for me to rule as well as a resolution minister, to do what they should have done long ago, so to replace Director Kazimir Bačić and his pillows as it appeared recently here from the pay phone. So here we were waiting to replace him in this assembly because, according to investigators, as a courier, he was carrying bribes to Milan Bandic. It's like we're Monty Python State. The director of public television brings bribes to the mayor of Croatia's largest city. This is what "A is it", that cartoon, wouldn't have come up with a better scenario. So that's what the head director of HRT, famous for suing those who dared to write critically about the work and business of the service that we all pay. He says they've damaged reputation and honor. Will those who remain in the lead now, v.d. Director Renato Kunić, Mislav Stipic, will they sue Kazimir Bačić for damage to reputation and honor after this affair that is not remembered? Kazimir Bačić will go into history, I have spoken here, I say before, several and other affairs of his overpayment of certain services, contracts, etc., so here we will lift up the shift, here I hear, most of which will support his shift, but the HRT remains in the hands of those whose way of managing the billion and 300 million subscription money, causing numerous recommendations, so those who have turned this public service into the service of the ruling ones, remain those who led Kazimir Bačić to create such a public service. Although the Croatian Law on HRT was also criticised for the SDP coalition authorities, it is the fact that this authority is now being called upon by the lawyers of Kazimir Bačić. HDZ with its partners had years and years to change it and did not change it, it was not done, so nothing was done until the moment Kazimir Bacic actually changed himself by his activities. I'm saying, I've talked here from the council several times about the situation and I've proposed some solutions, and so here's six months ago when we talked about the Program Council, and I've mentioned a few things, and I've suggested that we cancel the Program Council because if you're looking at the report from the meetings of this Programme Council, reading reports whether, with the discussion of the Information Committee, you come to the conclusion that this Program Council has no authority, no one is particularly excited if this council and brings any kind of assessment, is that, if the negative opinion on the work and the HRT programme, here we've heard here for several years, there's no positive opinion on the work and the program has anything happened, whether someone's gone head, it's not. There goes the head, only if I'm wearing a bribe to the mayor of the biggest city in the country. I also suggested that we cancel the subscription to HRT not because I think public service should be abolished and that public service should not be required, but that the subscription should be abolished and the HRT should be deeply reorganised, rationalised, and then such public service financed from the existing tax and state pass. So our citizens are already burdened enough, enough taxes and a cut are paid both by our entrepreneurs and citizens as a whole, so that this public service can be financed from these revenues. Bruno Kovacevic is therefore, citizens are paying a subscription of 80 kn and Bruno Kovacevic said once, he says, "We would do wonders with a monthly fee of 96 kuna." So they have little billions and 300 million kuna to do miracles and they need more. So, we will support Kazimir Bačić's shift, but what we will not support is the appointment of the performer of the role of Renat Kunić, simply because here is what the predecessors said, because it is the continuation or continuity of the same policy that ruined HRT. So, we can say, that's what "Saji Kurta to ride Murta" is, so we should look forward to maybe because he promised not to run for director, but here, I don't even hope for a new director because that choice will take place even though there are enough quality people on HRT who could do the job well, but they're not at the will of the government. HRT therefore needs urgent, deep, strong reform, choice of brand-new leadership, amendment of the HRT Act, and these are key steps on the way that we finally have the really public service that we all deserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56775	Thank you very much. It's been more than three hours, so now we're gonna take another break to the wind, and I'll see you at 5:00 and 15 minutes. MEETING IN 17.05 A.M. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 17:17 A.M.]] The first one will be spoken by a respected representative, Nino Rasdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56777	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I would like to say in a preliminary manner what is currently on my mind, and it concerns a few of us, and that is that between political and social theory and what we ourselves can collect with experience there is another... The instance, which is the proverbs and sayings that were created as a result of the sublimation of the centuries-old experience of humans. [[You don't understand.]] For a long time, a series of guides in some situations where my actions of actors were not clear to me was neither the leader of the Latin cui bono to whom it was used. And often the next one would hear a bono and find an answer. In this debate and here today, what we have heard, and what has been said in the public in the last few days on this point on my head is a folk saying that we find in all Croatian parts, and I'm going to list it in the southern variant, which is "no barking about the village", "no barking about the village", so let's keep it a little preliminaryly hanging in the air. I heard an important thing from my colleague Ivanovic in his speech, which I listened carefully to on behalf of the HDZ Club and I will hold him by his word. Kolega Ivanovic said they were willing to change the law in a way that he returned to how he was before these poor amendments to the laws implemented by the Kukurik coalition, it is to change the law in such a way that the Director-General no longer has this Pharaohic authority and no responsibility to the Supervisory Board and the Programme Council, but to return the role and the Programme Council, therefore, to the Supervisory Board. I appeal to all of us to experience this after a two-month break when we find ourselves in September to really approach the amendment of the Law on HRT in order to preserve the future meaning and reputation of the important public institution that is currently greatly damaged. Because as we know, the opportunity makes a thief. What can be resented by HDZ is that it hasn't changed back then when it came to power to get most of the SDP's bad law in parliament, but used the media beating that SDP has made for himself and his Radman for Bacic. Those who voted for Kazimir Bačić then had no change in the law, which they had before them? The person who was in HRT technical services. So, one electrical engineering engineer who wasn't mentioned at the time in some kind of mix-up about these production programs and everything else. So I don't blame anyone who voted for him at the time, nor does Mr. Pupovac, who has the need to point out that he voted in such a way. But the opportunity I repeat is this situation where they are without any responsibility and manage with a billion and 300 million kunas can lead to some consequences that may eventually be shown in the follow-up of the investigation and legal epilogue if it comes to it by respecting the presumption of innocence. He's not going to talk about Mr. Bačić and Mr. Kunic. So what will they discuss if the point (a) Kazimir Bačić is a solution, point (b) Kunić appointment? We connected points a and b to the common point ab, and he wouldn't talk about or about b. So what would he talk about? And finally we hear as a member of the ruling majority that they will still vote for V.D. Kunic. I repeat, Minister Obuljen Koržinek's godmother, but will continue to scrupulously monitor the situation on HTV. So, we're going to swallow this thing with Kunic, which is part of Kazimir Bačić's team that I repeat, because we have a legal basis in the existing law, but because we're making a political judgment and a political decision as someone who appoints a director, he's being resolved and he's being watched over by public broadcasters, and we're leaving a man from his narrow circle to the godfather of the resolute minister, which I think is very bad. In conclusion, I'm going to do one more time what I said on behalf of the club. We will vote for Kazimir Bačić's resolution by respecting the presumption of innocence, but we will vote against v.d. Renata Kunić godfather and the man on the same team respecting the presummation of innocence absolutely. But we don't think it's a good message to the public and that V.D. There's got to be someone who's completely out of that circle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56778	Thank you. We have two replicas, so the esteemed representative of the Parliament will be replicated by the esteemed representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56779	Dear Representative Rasludic and not a colleague of Pupovac's alone. We have heard here many of them who suddenly remembered that there are workers' rights, that this should be thought out in more detail and invented different other excuses that contribute to keeping the leadership more or less as it is now, or to retain the status quo. And why keep the status quo? And why is Mr. Bacic's problem and everything that's going on on HRT? For example, it shows one of the largest ratings survey that points out that the 7th place cable information channel N1 is more than double-viewed than any available Earth information channel of HRT 4 that is only 11. We keep talking about the Dnevnik and we focus on the Dnevnik, and it is not unusual that not only us but the entire Croatian public completely forgets that there is something more important. A whole information program that doesn't serve anything, so let's not even remember it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56780	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56781	By handling these two sayings, he hears a bono, and he doesn't do squats for a village, a lot of things get clearer. So, here in the debate, we presented this problem that the Ministry of Finance gave a negative opinion on the decision of the Croatian leadership to move to non-profit bookmaking, said it would be more complicated and not agreeable, and then mysteriously after a personal live meeting requested by Kazimir Bačić changed their opinion and gave the green light, either that or why, at its own expense and to the damages of HRT's reputation, the head director prevented an independent investigation into cases of sexual harassment and abuse on HRT. Now, from this perspective, after what happened with the arrest, things and clues are getting clearer. I hope the authorities investigate it. And this deal that apparently existed with the ruling in the end led to the collapse of the reputation of the information program and the fall of ratings and influence. one tv service... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56782	The replica of the esteemed representative of Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56783	Thank you. You told your esteemed colleague Rasputi you did not object to those who voted for Kazimir Bacic. I resent myself for being one of those who voted for him and I remember that vote here in the assembly. We at the MOST Club and well said by a colleague named Grbin until the last minute we didn't know what we were going to do and how we were going to do it, but then we got guarantees that we were going to go to a reduction in the rv subscription. Of course, after we leave the government, none of this has happened, and we see how the outside production is spent on HRT, that no rationalization is going at all. And what's even more embarrassing is that key HRT people are involved in these kinds of affairs. I can't understand that some opposition clubs, I could hear a representative and the president of the Homeland Movement say they won't vote for Kazimir Bacic's shift. It's incomprehensible to me after these affairs and after what we've seen in what way HRT is functioning. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56784	Dear Representative Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56785	I'm a bit more indulgent to you than you are yourself. So, I can understand wrongly anything that hasn't changed that law with the new parliamentary majority that we're hearing about now HDZ is ready to change the law in the fall and we will really support it to regain greater powers to the Supervisory Committee and the Programme Council. So I'm going to do it again, at least what could have been learned about the person who was part of HRT's technical service, who's been there for decades, who hasn't been someone like, recognized as a part of a particular political actor, was eventually referred to as a son-in-law one relationship. So that's where I don't see the problem. And about why some are now suddenly and expected to be restrained in a situation where the reputation of HRT has been seriously violated, so where are the accusations that the money for the mayor's bribe, the head director of HRT's worn in bags where there's no man on the street, but he'll just get rid of it from the head of HRT until the matter is cleared up. I can't help but call this people's saying again. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56786	Thank you. The next one will speak to the esteemed representative of Nikola Grmoy. Here you go. You want to come?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56787	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I remember that in 2016, so there was a colleague Branko Bačić who asked us at the MOST Club how we would vote in Kazimir Bačić, and I said that until we got the guarantee that we were going safely to cut the rent of the subscription that we would not vote. And there was a general panic and I have kept in my phone a message from Mr. Kazimir Bačić who promises to mean until he's in my third message he's just promised to go to a reduction in the rv subscription, so until then we haven't decided which way to vote on it. At that time, the majority supported it, most MPs later proved that no rationalisation on HRT had happened, that information media service unfortunately became a propaganda service of the ruling party, and I remember one meeting of its own with Minister Osten Koržinek who told me that it shared the same vision of public television, which is that it must not be the service of the ruling but therefore be in the service of all citizens, that it should be objectively informed about everything that is happening in the country. It turned out very quickly that it wasn't like that. What is particularly concerned is the participation of the principal director in this affair that we do not yet know about, who will be all about this affair and whether it will remain on this alone. So, in this sense, it is very important to go ahead and shift the principal and here is my colleague Rasdic, in the name of the MOST Club, announced our vote and how we will be asked about this issue. I think it's logical for all the assembly clubs to be on that shift, and as for the appointment of a gentleman now proposed as V.D. We can't support that. It's one continuity that doesn't actually offer any change on HRT, and they're seeing it necessarily, necessarily necessary. In that sense, we will vote against this and what is very important to me, and today they have recognised both by ruling and opposition that it is necessary to amend the Law on HRT and how the Director-General is appointed. So we need to move away from HRT being a service that actually serves the propaganda of Prime Minister Plenkovic. Let us remember that those who had broadcasts on HRT, who brought guests who criticized the prime minister that they were left without these shows. That the show was won by Romano Bolkovic, that ministers often visit the show, that often the prime minister comes there, that the whole information service serves as a propaganda for the ruling party. Also, open as a show, we have a high-quality journalist, and that's Mislav Togonal, who still holds the quality of that show, and this rest we all know how to do it and how to, how to organize those shows. So, also since the prime minister mentioned today I would like to point out here that is to point out my protest to the polls that HRT ordered from the Promotion Plus means in the last week before the elections and based on these polls, the events on TV have also been organised. You know what turned out to be? Yeah, by 50% they missed, not what they say I don't know up to 3% that it's a mistake, at least in the case of MOST, I don't know what happened to the other political options. So when someone 3 days or 4 before the election knocks you down by 50%, and you get 50% better results, it all shows what the credibility of these polls is. And I expect a public TV service funded by all citizens to stop cooperating with the Promotion Plus that is co-operated with RTL TV. So such surveys are unworthy of public service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56788	We have two replicas, the first respected representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56789	That it is now to untangle the link node between Milan Bandic and HRT, which is not only about the possible carrying of certain bags but also about the important content that has been placed on public television and how it has been placed can only be reminded of one thing that has been mentioned relatively recently, and it refers to the way HRT has placed information to the public when it comes to an affair with the detection of corruption in Zagreb's Advent. On the day of the short show, which went right behind the journal, the editor invited Martin Bienenfeld from the Milan Bandic 365 party just to provide her with a free Advent commercial. So it's not just this, and it's not just one thing, but the whole way of controlling the information that went and now retroactively, and then it's smart to expose the connection between Bandic, HRT and HDZ. How do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56790	The Honorable representative of the Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56791	So it's on the trail of what I said I hope Mislav Togonal won't have a problem with this commendation here in the Croatian Parliament, but here's an example. HRT4 this studio has about 4 hours of program, 5 days, means where various guests are called and I would like to sum up how many oppositions were given a minute, and then from the opposition as much as we are 4 forces here in the Croatian Assembly after the SDP and the Homeland Movement received minutes and how many times we are invited to visit at all. This tells you all about the public service, and of course they were called different people to wash their cheeks, sell their stories, and that, as counterpart Rasdic said, they organized shows about topics that are completely irrelevant at times when large affairs were happening in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56792	And now the esteemed representative Rasdic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56793	Dear comrade Grmoy, there are newsrooms on HTV that do their job well. Good things are seen from culture and on 3 HRT programmes and films and children's programs etc. However, the problem is of course an information programme. I will repeat once again to hold to the word of Mr. Ivanovic, who spoke on behalf of the HDZ Club, so we have some authority with this announcement that they are ready to amend the Law on the Selection of the Director of HRT to strengthen the role of the Supervisory Board and the Programme Council. What I think is important is 4 programs, 4 channels of HRT have to carry the assembly sessions live all day long as they last. It is simply inadmissible that it goes in the morning, two, and that in the afternoon there is any other content on the four HRT programmes that is more important than what is happening and debated in the assembly. It is something to insist on in the future so that the public rtv service and justify its function.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56794	The Honorable representative of the Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56795	Of course, but also generally, the way in which political parties work should therefore be seen how much they get in the diary, how much space they get and how many opposition. So that's, that's such a disproportionateity that it can't be described at all and here's enough to look at one central journal without talking about this 4 HRT program. And as far as Mr. Ivanovic is concerned, I don't know that he is so influential in HDZ that we can call on his, his announcements. I hope that's how it's gonna be, but here's what we'll see.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56796	She will now speak to a respected representative, Karolina Vidovic Kristo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56797	Ladies and gentlemen, why is freedom of the media even relevant, and why is it one of the fundamental postulates of the democratic world and so is the EU to which Croatia belongs? Because freedom of the media guarantees citizens the right to information. History has shown that the lack of objective media always leads to great injustice and general social evil. But history has also shown that anyone who wants to conduct something that is not honorable, morally, and well always tries to put the media in his service. That's why free media is a prerequisite for basic social justice. Discuss the resolution of Kazimir Bačić, not analyse how Bačić became the director of HRT at all is pointless. As all branch sparrows know, Bacic is not the only problem because he had limited powers on HRT. The real rulers on HRT are Mislav Stipic and Renato Kunic. When someone sets up such a structure on HRT, which is Plenkovic, Ossued and this parliamentary majority then have motive for it. That motive is called controlling and preventing the truth from reaching the citizens. Today's untrue claims by Prime Minister Plenkovic that Bacica has been appointed by the parliament, not by the government, are more of the nonsense spoken in this assembly. So Plenkovic, as HDZ president, makes decisions, and most of them have HDZ in the assembly. So this is something to claim is an insult to the intelligence of Croatian citizens and it will be to the one who insults his people eventually. Plenkovic set Bačić up, and the results are next. He set up a man who was indisposed to the position that was completely compromised. He's been shown as a small delivery guy, so the situation on HRT doesn't surprise you with who he ran it from. HRT has a decline in ratings and most Croatian citizens are unhappy with the programme because HRT is not a citizen service long ago. The ruling structures use HRT as an instrument to protect their corrupt, illegal and anti-European policies. The fact that HRT is falling apart is Plenkovic's Pupovcivska Structure is not interested. The extent of corruption, wealth, nepotism and scandals in the judiciary must not be known, so HRT must remain silent because democratic and professional standards need to be suspended in order to achieve the immoral, anti-democratic and illegal interests of corruption structures in Croatia. Vices and ridicule with the HRT programme have become common, and some shows have become anthological because of their lack of professionalism and indifference. One of them is Roman Bolkovic's conversation with Minister Bozinovic, and they're already smirking high school, saying you're as eloquent as Bozinovic. And talks with Plenkovic in a substantive sense look like reports on the central committees in the former communist state both in monotony and content. Listening to Plenkovic on HRT, the average Croat begins to think he lives in Sweden. As there is a Museum of Illusions in Zagreb so informative program of HRT we can call it an illusion program. For HRT, there are no events to be published without benefiting ruling structures on principle what should not have happened has not happened. Should HRT not inform the Croatian public, for example, about the Krš-Padene affair, that it respects public service standards should not only inform but systematically report an affair that takes 2 billion kunas to Croatian citizens until the case is lit up, the responsible penalties, and the estranged return. But if HRT were to act by law and democratic standards then corruption of the ruling caste would be exposed and every citizen would know the reason why his standard of life is bad and why he suffers injustice. It is from this illegal motive that Renat Kunić, the godmother of Ministers, is now being appointed V.d. Director. The objective of HDZ's SDP and SDSS is clear. To prevent the truth and the facts from getting to the public. Ladies and gentlemen, each of the MPs who will support these proposals should be aware that this supports the injustice, corruption and poverty of Croatian citizens. Be aware of your responsibility to your fellow citizens. Be also aware that there is always a time to settle accounts. Croatia needs an objective television that serves no one but the truth and the public. Choose the Minister's godmother for V.D. The director is an insult to the Croatian public. Well, that man is part of the problem, he's in the lead of HRT, and that HRT is falling apart. I call on all MPs to reject party discipline and vote in favour of the resolution of Bačić and against the appointment of Renat Kunić because his appointment means the continuation of agony and injustice in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56798	We have one replica of the respected representative of Wrkljan.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56799	Thank you, Chairman. Madam MPs, you are known as one person in this assembly who for the past year has been a whole series of situations, and I would say the affair that has been marked by Croatian society in the last year. I wonder if you, being a parliamentary representative and often speaking of it, have ever been able to paint a full picture of Croatian society as a political, cultural, sports, and each other have ever been invited to television to talk about any problem that you have opened here in this assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56800	Dear representative Vidovic Kristo.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56801	Thank you very much. No, the HRT in this year's term of office hasn't asked me for a single statement, I haven't been invited to any of the shows. But that's logical, if it were different HRT wouldn't be the HRT that's today. What is important to say, I repeat and constantly warn about the situation, about examples in Croatian society that are the cause of this depression, of social agony and of the injustice suffered by Croatian citizens. It's the first step in our political action. We first diagnose because adequate therapy cannot be set unless you know the diagnosis. And the diagnosis must be heard by most Croatian citizens, they will not be heard on HRT. That's why we have a chance here at the assembly, in the assembly, for this assembly to talk about these problems. HRT as a public service towards journalistic ethics and expertise is obliged to all affairs, not only individually follow, exhaust these topics until they are enlightened, until the perpetrators are punished and returned estranged, and it is not working right now. So how do you think the affair and the Watergate split happened? That there was a HRT And today you'd be president. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56802	The next debate will be the respected representative Bojan Glavasevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56803	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. HRT has been failing for years. It now appears that there is also a consensus on both sides of the assembly, but very recently in the previous assembly session, and even more recent colleagues and colleagues from HDZ have been adamantly defending both Kazimir Bačić and Renat Kumić, pardon Kunic and the rest of Bacic's clicks. Today, you're doing the same thing just a little bit more insecure. Today, the prime minister responds to a single replica of me, my colleague Vidovic Kristo appears to me, and by fenced by Bačić, he reminded himself of Radet Sherbedzija's song, a friend says he no longer knows him. I'm not gonna recite it to you because I've got a little time because sherbet is cursing a lot, but I strongly recommend it. It's interesting to see how all of them are being fenced from Bačić today, and it was clear in ancient times that a man is as dim as a Danube on a bad day. Kazimir Bačić was under measures for a year and a half and for a wonderful miracle measures were not breached, at least it looks that way. Who knows colleagues and colleagues who have fallen into the network of investigators and investigators while listening and following Kazimir Bačić? Who knows what got into the network when they searched the office, the plural, on Prisavlje? I am absolutely certain that in HRT administration, people are currently sitting there thinking about it with a feverish mind and that in their dreams they are haunted by the sounds of knocking people from USKOK and the police at their home door. It is embarrassing for you colleagues and colleagues from HDZ to replace a supervisory board that is well-intentioned to protect the interests of citizens warned about what is happening on HRT. Did any of you have the nerve to call Anja Sovagovic these days to apologize for having replaced her and the other members and members of that supervisory board as if they had done something immoral, dishonest and criminal, and not alerting her to immoral, dishonest and criminal acts of this particular administration that now bites her nails in fear of a close encounter of a third species with the authorities of the Croatian judiciary. Then you made a huge mistake, and you're doing it now. Wasn't there one, not one person employed by the HRT that you could suggest to lead the HRT in this interregnum? You've made a first-rate pig shop for a colleague and a colleague, again. And if another arrest happens on HRT, if it turns out that the supervisory board whose head was Anja Sovagovic was right about everything they wrote and what they reported to the state's attorney's office what are we going to do then? Then how are you going to look in the face of a citizen and a citizen of the Republic of Croatia? You won't be able to tell anyone that you didn't know and that you weren't warned. You can't do that right now. Watch what I told you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56804	We have one replica of the respected representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56805	Dear fellow Glavasevic, you said one important thing or you asked who knows who got into the network of listening, measures, etc., which included Bačić, and now suddenly he's coming out and we've got this whole affair on HRT. We well know from previous experiences that this could not have happened. He could be one of those who would remain silent in case he could be later used for some other games. In that sense, my question is, do you really think any other names that are included in this network will come out or will be included in them, and we are seeing some unusual behaviors that may be better used for some new games and for some further dishonest actions.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56806	Dear Representative Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56807	Well, thank you for the replica of my colleague, Selak Rasudic. It doesn't bring me any pleasure or satisfaction to the fact that, that I have to answer your question with yes. Yeah, unfortunately, I think it'll come up with more names. That's not what I'm saying by heart. That's not what I'm saying because I don't like those people there. I really, unlike those who say today that Kazimir Bačić is probably not even on the news, I really don't know many of these people. However, I think by reading the report of this removed supervisory board and bearing in mind that these measures have lasted it seems unbroken for a year and a half days I wouldn't be surprised if not just some name from HRT appeared there but perhaps some names that we wouldn't expect from HRT.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56808	The next debate will be the respected representatives of Urša Raukar Gamulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56809	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Glavasevic reminded me of a joke from the beginning of '72, after the silence of the brutal Croatian Spring, he says why there is no plank in Zagreb because everyone is fenced. I think on the side of this HDZ is really quite a lack of boards. About the former director of HRT, I would indeed not spend more after all said words that he had been elected to the proposed vice president of the Labour and Solidarity Party, Bandic Milan 365, and all ended with the exchange of the late president of the same party, there is no doubt in the old ladies either. It's devastating and embarrassing that the exchange was taken over by the director of public television, but it is. He's in custody now and awaiting trial. And what does HDZ do after all this? Sets for v.d. The man who was appointed by the director on a temporary vacation in Remetec, who is part of that team, has no free time in old grandmothers either. Whether Mr. Kunić knew or not, whether he was involved in all of this or not it would determine someone else or not. But suppose he didn't know anything, but no matter what he may have known he was part of that team and in the eyes of the public he was automatically disqualified for any function or leading position on HRT even if v.d. However, there is no freeness in old women's only crime, let's remember again as many times as this speaker has been told, but it is not enough to say mass press lawsuits for criticism that Renato Kunic knew and took part in it. The Minister of Culture now calls them unreasonable and unfounded, but before the arrest she did not do much to stop this shameful practice. Let us remember again and again the scandal with sexual harassment, which Mr. Renato Kunić knew, did nothing. In fact, he did a lot of work with his inaction, threw them out by prayer, and left them to the abuser of those sacrifices, which are facts. Renato Kunić was to quote journalist Sanja Mikleušević Pavić, a carefully built pyramid of fear, censorship, lawsuit, blackmail, networked interest, non-solidarity and retribution that has ruled the devastated HRT for years. Renato Kunić as we know the game i.e. a map of white with the minister's husband to whom the godmother is bound. The Minister herself on Sunday at 2 a.m. recently declares 10 days ago: "As long as I am a minister, although I have no influence in any way on the choice, it would be bad to run." If the minister thinks it would be bad for him to run, then it is easy to conclude that it would be bad and to be v.d. It's bad. I agree very much with Madam Secretary. It is bad for both HRTs and Croatia, and the colour is poorly respected colleagues and colleagues from HDZ and for you, and you are unable to move away and condemn the apparent mismanagement of HRT, which also makes Renato Kunić one of the trademarks. Name Renat Kunić for V.D. HRT means to support the continuity of poor and criminal administrations burdened with affairs, poor programme, persecution of journalists, censorship and retribution. Gentlemen of the HDZ and Madam, I ask you in front of the Croatian public are you really ready to support such continuity? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56810	We've got a replica of the respected representative Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56811	Dear colleagues, here I am going to ask you for another name or do you know any public service in Europe on which the head of the information-media service Katarina Periša Čakarun is her husband's highly positioned head of SOA? Is there any public service in Europe that would not be unethical and conflict of interest? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56812	Honorable representative Rakar Gamulin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56813	Thank you, colleagues. Yeah, it's just I can agree with you that's one of the things I don't know, tens of them, 100s, thousands of things that smell to the sky on HRT and not only stink, but they're also visible. So that's not doubt, that's not conjecture. It's not about something that's secretly talked about in the towers. These are facts that are known to the public and I can only ask the HDZ gentlemen again, are you really behind such an HRT administration?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56814	Thank you very much. Now he will speak to the esteemed representative of William Matula. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56815	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, let's imagine that you on the HDZ side of most of this House have the strength to suggest someone else. At that session of my colleague Ivanovic's committee, he was there, that we got it from colleagues from TV from journalists, we got the name of the man they proposed. However, not only him, not only Dario Sprelic, there are many more people on TV who could do this job, and at least better, more responsible, with less concern for all of us than Mr. Renat Kunić and that continuity that you advocate here. Why such continuity? Let's imagine, suppose you still bring it up and by that Thursday until the vote you say, "Here, we still have people." It's not true that all the high-quality people he's got. First I'm going to say on the information program that's interesting, but you follow, and then you know for sure that there are more important quality people on Radio, more independent, safer, more independent on Radio than on Television. In Network One, there are even videos you participate, you visit there and you know it's important a more quality program that can't be repeated because Mrs. Perisha Chakarun and her husband who know more interests, deeper interests, I don't know what kind of, deep countries that only you know can't happen in the Open. At the time of the Hlorka, we called it closed, remember? But it didn't open. You've never opened it. It's still closed, hermetically closed. And right now, that thing can open up, right now, and you know it. And that Periša Čakarun says that if this really water were to carry me anyway, I guess I'd be relieved, but you're not sure, and that's why Kunić here might even be a year of us still scolding with his team Bruno Kovacevic and others, with Stipic that I'm not talking about who's been harassing journalists in every way. But we can imagine a vision. We have that possibility. It's not hard to imagine that, as a colleague suggested, this should always be on one of the broadcasts. And also parallel to why would students of journalism, politology, sociology from the Faculty of Philosophy, with the Legal Students of theirs, professors of why couldn't they have a program that is constantly commenting on this and they have discussions so that ideologically they share and that they balance it and have a quality debate, parallel to getting students ready for future politicians, for future journalists? It's all possible to do. At this point it is possible to do so and you know it and that it can really go that way not to talk about a playful program that I don't think the Croatian audiovisual centre should now stop co-productions with HTV and that some things really should be out there and that it should be common. But instead, the famous austorcing that you also spent on TV is possible insoring into such a program. Imagine you have a research journalism department where all those investigative journalists Bačić along with Renata Kunić sued for our money, spent so much money. Imagine that the HRT's information program is just a protective place for the Institute to be there for the students from the Journalist to hear it from day to day and to practice there and to want to be and to fight that there is a prize for research journalism that exists, but of course the HRT doesn't support it because you don't support it. And today, all of a sudden, the prime minister here is getting off with the HRT program. He wonders and says it's not easy to defend because of course it's impossible to defend. And now they see it's a shame. And the minister of his closest minister of trust.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56816	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. [[Matula:... has a huge guilt for all of this.]] The first one's a respected lawyer, Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56817	Here's a respected colleague like you said, so there really isn't a HRT, there's no show critical of the current political situation. And the defeat is that, after researching the Agency for Electronic Media, the ratings of HTV4 is smaller than the RTL cube. So, a channel that's designed as a news channel, so the information channel is unambitious, unreal, unsightly. So, in such a state, then propose someone to v.d. The director who's in some way part of that team that designed that whole thing is actually unambitious again and will eventually produce what you said and continuity. But this when, for the last five seconds, I'm going to say and take the opportunity to invite all those you've told quality people to apply to the principal's competition.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56818	Thank you. Representative Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56819	Thank you, Representative Puljak. I couldn't agree more. Yes, we should invite all quality people to both HRT and those who are no longer to apply because we want to believe if not now, but we believe after the next parliamentary elections that there will be a possibility that we will finally be able to set up people who will actually be able to run this programme in the right way. And I agree, I'm sure the law needs to be changed, and that the minister could right now if she wanted to start a real change of law. It's all for sure, it's certainly possible to do, and I assure you as Tihomir Ladišić criticized there and claimed that he was a bagbearer, not Bačić, which is unacceptable. Many journalists will return to the HRT only if the offices are related, quality journalists. We're gonna have a lot of... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56820	Dear representative Peovic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56821	So here's the clue to what you're saying, so I've heard from some HRT workers who warn us that maybe we shouldn't miss out on this opportunity that the opposition doesn't have a representative or a proposal. Perhaps the most logical proposal is that member of the Supervisory Board appointed by the workers. Perhaps by some amendment or other means, regardless of the ruling, it will not support the proposal that it is not just waiting for the competition itself, but rather that during this transitional period, it will try to come up with names that would have some kind of trust for workers and that are not compromised. It doesn't make sense to mean again one transitional period is introduced in which we will have the same mind composition, another name, but actually the same policy that doesn't change at all. Is there some kind of formal doesn't have to be or how we looked at it so the law doesn't have to be a proposal from the Media Committee? So the law says only the Parliament needs... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56822	Honorable representative of Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56823	I would like to thank Commissioner Peovic. Yes, I understand that, and I agree at that time on the Committee that I was in contact with journalists and journalists among other things, the name of Mr. Dari Špelić was mentioned. However, in that time when I was given the opportunity to talk to him, they really thought about running for the principal’s office as I understood it. Here's how much now, maybe I've said it too much right now, but I did say it there on the board right now. In a conversation with Mr. Spelic, he told me that he would even take up the position V.D. He may have reported that he had any equal relationship, that we were not caught up in the fact that we were told on the Committee at once, so make a suggestion. You understand?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56824	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be respected by a representative of Goran Ivanovic. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56825	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Here's let me say, in an individual debate, maybe a few things that have been brought here through this debate, and I, as a member of the Media Committee, say, and of course here as a man who spoke in front of the Croatian Democratic Community Club. I'm going to start with a few thesis that's been put out here, and I don't think they're drawing the best possible way of what's been going on on the Committee itself. We received a call for a session of the Committee with clear points of the agenda. The first was Mr. Kazimir Bačić's release. The second was the proposal v.d. The director-in-chief of Croatian Radio Television will say that anyone could have made a proposal he wanted to see as V.D. The director-in-chief of Croatian Radio and I don't think that's at all controversial. A colleague named William asked for a break to consult some people. Mr. Rasdic suggested we postpone that decision by the day after. But I think it was all in line with the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Media Committee and all that was expected of us. I'm saying Kazimir Bacic didn't get fired. Someone here mentioned in the debate that we fired Kazimir Bacic. He was only removed from his post as head of Croatian Radio Television. Where Kazimir Bačić will work afterwards when he does this part of his work where he currently is, we do not know or prejudge in this regard. All these people mentioned here, so feel free to report what Mrs. Puljak has said, feel free to make a public call that the Supervisory Board will soon announce. Let the best among them be the new head director of Croatian Radio Television. I don't know Mr. Kazimir Bačić. I saw him for the first time in my life when I came to the 1st session of the Media Committee and then I openly told him what I thought about Croatian Radio and the way Croatian Radio Television is run. So I didn't have a problem with that. And Mr. Kunic, I don't know him at all. I never even had a chance to talk to that man. I'll repeat what I said in the debate in front of the club. We expect the Supervisory Board to call immediately after Thursday's vote to elect a new director-in-chief of Croatian Radio and that we, as the Committee, will consider all the legitimate demands or life-records that arrive. Even if it is in the time of the constitutional break and here we welcome the autumn session with the new director of Croatian Radio Television. And I think that the metric or the whole debate could come down to one thing that Mr. Rasdic stressed here and I agree with that. I think the Director, the President of the Board should be elected by the Programme Council and the Supervisory Board and I think it's only right and it was only good, and then for some other reasons, of course, we changed the political ones. If we do so and if we call it "hot potatoes" we return it to where it should belong because people sitting in the Programme Council and the Supervisory Board must still have certain references to be members of those bodies. The most excessive can choose a man who can manage a system that is not simple at all, which has 3,000 employees and which must be a public service to all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, that is what should be advocating each parliamentary representative. I certainly don't belong in that category of people who, in any way, want to be a lawyer here to anyone. Our decision was to make it Mr. Kunić as the former Deputy Chief Director of Croatian Radio Television. He is not the director of Croatian television. His job is to do part of the public call with the Supervisory Board together, and after that, as you could see and hear from the media, he said he would not even make a public call to the head of Croatian Radio Television. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56826	We've got more replicas. He is the first respected representative of Rasdic. Excuse me. The first is a respected representative of Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56827	Okay. I don't think there's any obstacle to not naming another name. So if you see her here that even from the opposition comes a negative assessment of the retention of continuity. It's about a man who was the headmaster of a design so-called. or business units of 4 construction units on the current HRT Kunić. Then why don't we suggest that employee's representative as well? Indeed, this practice should cease to exist and only adopt what the rulings suggest. You can see here there's some kind of skepticism about that continuity. There is no obstacle either in the Rules of Procedure or in the Law on HRT that there are no two proposals. Nor does it say that this must be the proposal of the Media Committee. So we can make a second proposal as a Parliament and that proposal when you say it's just V.D. But that V.D. could be there for a year.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56828	Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56829	There were no obstacles to the Committee members who were not part of the ruling coalition making another proposal. The board would vote on that. That proposal that would receive the most votes would have been appointed. It was an attempt. There was no way to reach the man at that time. But I don't think it's that important right now. I will continue to insist that the most important part of the story is that the Supervisory Board, as soon as possible, calls for people with competences to answer a public call and that the best among them become the new director of Croatian Radio Television.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56830	Dear Representative Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56831	Dear colleague Ivanovic, I am pleased that what I caught in your speech on behalf of the Club has now been repeated and that it is indeed your categorical attitude to change the law in order to increase the role of the Supervisory Board and the Programme Council as it was before these unfortunate changes. And I hope that in the fall we can all reach consensus together. What happened with Mr. Bačić didn't just come to the cold in the sense that everything worked well on HRT is consistent and now here he happened to have fallen into some investigation of whether he was guilty, not guilty, but we had a long-standing problem with the directorship of HRT that worked and worked directly against what the Supervisory Board told him. That's what the law allows them to do. In that sense, it is not a good message of continuity. I appeal to you once again for V.D. You are not proposing a close associate of Mr. Bačić because it sends a bad message to the public. As much as you claim it's just V.D. who will be there in the short term [[Upadica: Dear Representative Ivanovic.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56832	I would just, thank you for asking, of course, say that Mr. Kunić is not covered by this treatment of Mr. Bačić, and he wouldn't be this mean prophet who would say that he, today, too, may be taken and detained today, I hope that this job will be done as soon as possible, and the propo of what you said, I agree with that, so it's not good that the Programme Council that we've appointed doesn't confirm the program to the principal, and that it has no consequences for anyone. It certainly is not good, when you read the records from the Board of Supervisors session, the Programme Council, then you will see that there was no communication at all and that it was essentially paid most by citizens who were watching the HRT programme that they expected for a billion and 400 million probably much, much, much more.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56833	Your Honor, Mr. Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56834	Thank you, Vice President. In the debate, it has been crystallized that there is a broader consensus on changing this law. I'm glad I voted against this law in my own time. I asked that we keep that consensus that was created in 2010 during the negotiations. What I'm missing in this debate, we may have in the fall, but I would certainly like to hear, and that is a compromise that we will stick to this consensus and that in time that doesn't happen as last time, we have passed a consensus one law, then change power, and then it is said, we are now taking on a new responsibility and now we change everything so that we can name our people. So we need to stick to the consensus during different periods and changes in government, and I think that's the only way to really have a public service.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56835	Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56836	I think it's the first line of defense when it comes to the choice of a man who will manage the HRT system, whether he was the President of the Administration or he was the CEO and simply, there should be some laws that shouldn't change how someone comes or goes, it's certainly not good. In this particular case, this absolutely proved, I would like that consensus to be again, to pass a law where HS will not enter a section that is exclusively tied to the profession but will do so by persons who, on Croatian television or any concept of television, radio and general media, may have a lot more knowledge than we have here.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56837	Dear representative Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56838	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. In your individual debate, you have, in fact, recapitalised the current course of the debate and, in fact, returned things to their scale, which is, therefore, the consequence of the resolution of the former director of HRT, which was done on the Committee through the appointment of the perpetrators of the duties, which was also done, and other members of the Committee could have proposed their candidate. Afterwards, as soon as possible, the public invitation for the appointment of the new director and at the end of the election of the new director of HRT, so, indeed, Kazimir Bačić is the past of HRT, and Mr. Kunić is by no means the future of HRT, the future of HRT is the new director and the one chosen in the sequence that comes to us, on a new public call with, first of all, the program, with a new team that will actually get HRT out of the state The stagnation in which he is now [[Intruder: Thank you.]] And, of course, the amendments to the law. [[Upadica: Dear Representative Ivanovic.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56839	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56840	Well, I think you're all really important and you said and I absolutely agree, and as far as I could understand from these other discussions, we're all looking for it. Here was the only dispute, whether it should be Mr. Kunic or not, that might be something that's part of the whole story, but I don't think it's a crucial part of this story called a better HRT.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56841	Dear representative Puljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56842	Here, dear colleague, I'm glad that you are, now somehow we all agree that the HRT Act should be changed, we hope that consensus. Well, it's a shame you haven't changed it before, and I'm glad to hear it here and here, you say, Kunić isn't the future, and I'm saying, here, there were probably a lot of better people that even in this transitional period until that future someone's doing this role, and when it comes to saying, when it comes to amending the HRT Act, here, I hope you'll include both the general public and the professional associations and that you won't see, public consultations on these laws cut off from mandatory, legally binding 30 days to 5 days like you did, here, recently with amendments to the Economic Chamber Act. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56843	Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56844	Well, I have nothing to add to what you said, of course the public has the right to discuss something that he pays for every month, right? So we're going to have a tv fee, so I think that even people who don't have to be explicit media experts, can say their opinion on HRT's programme, even moreover, this should be some kind of elbow for editors to find out what people are looking at, what they want to watch and what that television should look like, so I agree absolutely with that. What may bother me, that part, that HRT wants to show itself to the HDZ regime television, I don't know if I'm a bad HDZ, but I've never been on HRT in the last three years and nobody favored me in any way, so I don't think that's something that holds water, that's enough like this, one phrase that you want to say and likes to say, but I don't think it stands.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56845	The next replica is the respected representative Zeljko Pavic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56846	Your Honor. You said that at some point you said everything you thought about HRT. Now we're both aware you and we're all here that it's not enough. It's not enough to just say your opinion, it's a move to make. And if you'd pulled them earlier, we'd probably have a different situation on HRT today. That's the first thing. Secondly, I believe that you are aware that we should have started a shift before, and because of the more information we have received from various reports, or various letters that came from HRT to us that we have discussed both from the unions and from the bodies that manage HRT. I also remind you that we also had a thematic session on events on HRT, or on Mr Bačić's insubordinations. And the third point, that's the thing I want to remind you of. I believe you're aware that the opposition proposal wouldn't have gone on the board anyway, so... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56847	Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56848	Yeah, well, here we go again. That we have the Supervisory Board and the Programme Council who appoint and whether the chairman of the administration and members of the administration who can replace the editors with their decisions as it happened in 2012 40 editors were replaced in one day. I don't want to talk about this bad context, but then we wouldn't have to discuss things like this as a Media Committee. Of course the public needs to know them, but then these bodies would certainly work better and they could make decisions practically ad hoc right away, and this way it might all end up in some kind of debate, our individual opinions, and these people who got hurt in those relations with HRT won't be of any use or help.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56849	Dear representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56850	My dear colleague, however, I would like to ask you one more time to tell me exactly what was the motivation to choose for V.D. The director of the man who was elected director? So, what was the motivation? You had a chance on the Committee since you proposed and you had time to think about it in front of HDZ, unlike others on that committee who didn't even know that I could propose. So, what's your motivation and that the public might think that maybe this is the kind of V.D. You want to hide some things too? You've really had a chance to ask the Supervisory Board, for example. to propose to you. Why did you choose the right hand of a man who was installed by a man who is now on vacation in Remetec?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56851	Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56852	Thank you very much. Mr. Kunic was the deputy director-in-chief of Croatian Radio Television. Mr. Bačić was not taken to Remetinac because he made some kind of a failure on Croatian radio. Take it easy. But a man has been taken away for reasons that the BOOK and the people who deal with it will prove. Therefore, Deputy Director-General Mr. Kunić, who knows the structure of Croatian broadcasting if I do not enter any other competences, should only do this job until the appointment of the new director-in-chief of Croatian Television. It's the only job he's got. You heard from his statements that he did not want to run and be the director of Croatian Radio Television. So here, believing this, I hope that we will do this job for the benefit of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56853	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56854	Thank you very much. Kolega Ivanovic and I follow the day-to-day direct behaviour of the government through the media means both in the City of Zagreb, and in Split, and in Sinj. It's the Bridge, the Centre, we can, we can't. We see how they frame, how they make decisions and explain them. The waist. It doesn't matter if they're friends, whether they're advertising offices, whether they've ever met or seen them are all professional people, and there's no discussion at all about whether they should be them or anyone else. And that justifies we're being taught here like we're doing something. I don't know what we're doing. We're putting the deputy in V.D. How much? One or two months. He's a V.D. for me. He said he wouldn't be a candidate. I don't see any problem with that. But they're troublesome. Why? Because they're self-critical very little to themselves. They usually see everything in other lines. They don't see anything about them even though they spend all day on some other TV show where they show the way they do it. We do it here in the representative body of Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56855	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Ivanovic. [[Invader Boric: They do so in executive bodies.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56856	Thank you very much for asking. Mr. Rasdić used one folk “not to bark about the village,” and I will use this other one “so it’s always better when a bear plays in another’s backyard” so I feel the same way about this. The HDZ always wants to switch that ball to manage all systems, including this system called Croatian Radio Television to humanize, that only the membership card is valid, nothing else, and then we see that when the responsibility is taken that it is not so that there are other things that you were talking about. But in the end there will always be voters and the people that judge will judge and say you're better, you're worse, you're the only ones leaving and the others are coming. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56857	The Honorable Representative of the Pracchin.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56858	My colleague Ivanovic was almost pleased with my answer to my colleague, Boric, from whom I realized that Mr. former previous director of Croatian television is not in Remetinco for crime, but that it may not be because of editorial policy. I am standing where you are at least once three, four times said that Croatian television, Faculty of Philosophy and some other institutions are in the hands of enemies of the Croatian state. Has anyone talked about Croatian TV's editorial policy? Do you and your party personally agree with such an editorial policy? There is still a political struggle in Croatia that started 30 years ago, and you can see that one team, one team, one ideology, one policy, one interpretation of history has as much space as it wants and the other has no right to move forward to Croatian television. It's clearly in the closing speech, so this...
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56859	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56860	So here's what I can say to my colleague Prkačin rather than wish and really believe that the new director or new director, the head director of HRT, will interrupt this practice you're talking about and that editorial policy will really be run by competent people who are also read and not read as, like, some. Therefore, I believe and belong to that group of people who believe in this better, better Croatia, and this better Croatia can only be created by us sitting here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56861	Now they will speak to the respected representative, Rada Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56862	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. It's just an investigative prison for director of HRT. Excuse me, annual vacation. going on vacation caused a motion after his shift, and there were loud and reasoned warnings that things on HRT were not good. There was also talk here about lawsuits against journalists, charges of sexual violence, but I don't want to talk about it. This shift procedure and choice V.D. The director will not mean anything unless the situation on HRT is thoroughly analysed, evaluated and assessed whether the entire administration, whether the whole administration deserves or doesn't deserve a shift. And according to what's known today, and she deserves it, so I'm not political, I'm going to do a little facts and programs. The planned annual amounts for the production of the HRT programme are constantly dropping. Why is the budget of the HRT programme getting smaller? Can anyone explain why less and less resources are being allocated each year to produce their own programme? It used to be over 500 million, today it fell to almost less than 300 million kuna, and there's no excuse for that. The result is that the HRT programme is becoming poorer and worse. We watch constant reruns and reruns of reruns and reruns of played films and documentary and foreign and domestic productions. In replaying the films played, the truth always finds some money to replay some movie by Anthony Vrdoljak, whether it's Antifascist Fight Day or Homeland Thanksgiving, it doesn't matter. The "General" series, co-financed by television, is being announced again, and we know what the audience and criticism and experts have said about it. The less and less amounts are allocated to the production of programs of those contents that really make up the spine, spine or pillar of public service. What kind of public service Mr. Bačić and the director of Mr. Kunić's programme year after year is constantly reducing instead of increasing the amounts for the normal work of the information media service, means the information programme, the documentary programme, culture, education, and constantly increasing amounts for the production of expensive sports programme or expensive entertainment programs. If HRT wants to become a sports television instead of a public service, let them try to justify such legal proposals in the assembly. And, for example, from year to year, the resources for producing domestic documentary films in HRT production are reduced, so the budget for producing a documentary film from 3 million kuna years ago, in the last instance 4, has drawn dangerously close to a million kuna in this year, and additional funds are always available for the transfer of sports championships, and on the idea of special TV sports second time. It was either individual authors or entertainers that the fees for running one show approached these amounts of documentary emissions, so for documentary all films million and 300 kuna, and for one host 9 hundred thousand kuna. The situation is also changing with regard to co-financing of independent television and film production, while over the past few years more than 15% of total software has been constantly trying to benefit from internal power agreements with individual producer houses, you know that according to the legal annual obligation, we are allowed 15% of the HRT Act to have external productions, even some good independent production houses and their already prepared programmes have been rejected because this has been agreed. What really worries is that today we talked about political decisions about elections, concerns about what kind of television we have, whether it's a public service, here it's said that all other televisions have a greater view of what's called information shows, that we've left complete production, that we rent and technology by expensive, expensive money and that this situation is unsustainable.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56863	Thank you. Dear Representative Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56864	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Boric, two brief remarks. I'm glad you pointed out in your debate this disproportionate investment in production on the one hand and on the other hand in the sports program, entertainment program etc.. I think that says a lot about the dynamics of power in the structures that decide on HRT... And the other thing, fun was a comment that your colleague Ivanovic told you about a bear dancing in someone else's backyard, in fact, I kind of expect that the replica of my colleagues will go that way, so I'd like to hear your comment on a famous bear in someone else's backyard. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56865	Dear representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56866	Well, I think someone should wait for him to talk where, who and how he dances, so I wouldn't comment on it. I'd rather comment that it's really worrying, and all of you here may remember the excellent program our television has produced, so, for example, I gave up. Is this about "The Gardener" and then it's not doing HTV anymore, so when it's doing the outdoor production, then we buy it at a double price. The reduced budgets of traditionally excellent emissions from "The Fruit of the Earth" to "The Sea" have been reduced in half to buy from external production God knows what. I'm not against the entertainment program, however, "A Page" I've been looking forward to, but it's not on public service to invest so much in the entertainment program if there are other TVs that have such a kind of program. It is known what is first and cannot happen such a disproportionate between the funds we invest in what would be a public service, which would be education. which would be a documentary film, etc. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56867	Thank you. Dear Representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56868	Dear fellow MPs. To me, watching television or perception programs is a subjective thing and someone likes something, someone doesn't like something. But let's do an information program and central emissions that go more or less in a similar space than an hour. 90% of all news is equal on each of these information shows, whether you're on commercial or state. Now if this is a regime television like these commercials, if they spin the same news a little differently, because I can't understand it then, and they're all spinning the same way that it's arranged from the same center, there's no difference in 10%. Let's look at all three and tonight and see that then, given that commercially, it's not regimeal. Everyone has values they want to look at, someone's sport, someone's not. Sports on HRT other than big events, Olympic games, world championships, you don't have any sport at all. I don't know how they spend the most money there, you don't have events. When it goes on commercial television, it's the same thing to judge what it looks like when they do. take some.../Speakers speak at the same time./... [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56869	Dear representative Boric. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56870	And your feeling might be cheating on you, that's what psychologists, psychiatrists would say if it were a subjective impression. But you look at the statistics on the viewing of the same logs, so it's impossible for the public service to have less ratings than other commercial televisions not to mention them here. So you can't talk investment in sports and whether it's going to be the Olympics now, so now with commercial television, someone's going to beat it to get public television at the expense of all those programs that should first have public television. So I'm not against other programs, but not to the harm of what public service should be. And it's not true, one day I'm going to bring you a little analysis of what a television diary looks like and what daily HTV looks like and what the contents are and what minutes are. So just look at the minute where the prime minister is, is that the first news or the seventh and any TV.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56871	Thank you. The following will be spoken by respected representative Milan Vrkljan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56872	Dear Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues. And this presence of us so little in the Assembly tells us how much politics is interested in this situation, first of all I mean this extreme situation on HRT, and also that their sides as much as they are interested in us because they are not transferring us, so now the question ultimately who will have more damage or benefit when they draw the line for a while. It is indisputable that my history of some public relationship with Kazimir Bačić starts from 23.4. of this year when HRT journalist Aleksandar Stankovic, on his Facebook, posted an insult to Assembly representative Karolin Vidović Kristo, and I remind you that it is the Assembly that is the supervisory body for the control of HRT's work, and he wrote in that publication a vulgar, primitive, sexist letter to which I asked for the reading of the director of HRT which I received after a month, two days an answer that was inappropriate, which showed nothing that man understood what I wrote to him. And I have to even say that certain associations and left-wing options that fight for human rights and women's rights, for minority rights, remain silent, even I think they've consciously ignored it. And this Aleksandar Stankovic wrote in his statement that he was literally told by Caroline that Karolini Vidovic Kristo was pointing out during the night and calling for a sex organ. So now I would ask all of you who in this House what your husband or your husband or your life partner would think of your child as a journalist with HRT in such a way addressing you publicly through Facebook and referring to his sex organ? Unfortunately, what I got from Director Bačić was below every level of public civilization. I wonder why that is, and how is it possible that HRT has such a man on its forehead? Well, it's possible because there's this right-hand option in this House too, the right-hand side that's protected Bačić all these years, even though it was clearly signalled from his surroundings that it was an incompetent man and a man of very questionable moral character, but also this left side protected us for 20 years. Stankovic and many of his outbursts never sanctioned him. And I would say that there is no one in this assembly and there is no left and right in the entire Croatian state. There are only those in Croatia who are a corrupt criminally devoured minority and all the other Croatian people who want an orderly country, a European-oriented country of order, a country of discipline, a legal system, but they are a silent minority and cannot come to talk about it. And that's why one Stankovic was 20 years old. can pass with such journalism, but also why one Bacic can sit on such an important institution or Minister Obuljan who protects him. And for all of this, when it was announced that Kazimir Bačić carried money bags from door to door, it was evident that HRT was corrupt and criminally unimpeached and corrupt by an institution in which the institutions of the system needed to intervene. I would say that such a corrupt institution could not be expected to open affairs of type Croatia insurance, Krš-Pađene, HZZO and insurance companies, the Uljanik, HERA, a health system that is 15 billion kuna due to the relationship of private and public and ultimately the journalist Stankovic himself. For this reason, Croatian society has been consumed by corruption and crime that has been in place for the past 20 years. Unfortunately, he's protecting HDZ, and the SDP is holding his ladder.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56873	Thank you. We have several replicas, the first respected representative Vidovic Kristo, please. Stay, stay a colleague, Vrkljan. Dear representative Vidovic Kristo.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56874	A fellow representative, individuals in public space, speaking of HRT and so on in recent weeks, often talk about the revision of history on HRT. So here's what I'm curious about is the history review when HRT pays for the documentary "Dione Budisavljevic Dnevnik" containing documented counterfeits? The film broadcasts synchronised with Serbian radio television. In this film there are slanders and already famous lies at the expense of Blessed Aloyz Stepinc, so I wonder if it's a history review or whether it's the continuity of something called falsifying history by example of some regimes that should be behind us? And the second question is when you mention a colleague or not a colleague, Mr. Stankovic from HRT, can you say more about the other part of the work hours record?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56875	Dear Representative Vrkljan.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56876	Yeah, it's hard to answer two questions briefly, I'll be, I'll try to be brief. Look, as far as Blessed Alojzi Stepinc is concerned, the best attitude of HRT towards him is seen in one show “It Happened on Today” when a journalist at the end, the day Stepinac died, at the end his last contribution was for one, for one person from World War II said but he had no one busy thinking about Stepinac. It is so hypocritical and misleading to the Croatian public that I simply do not believe that someone can come up with such a thing at all. On the other hand, information came to me, I also had personal contacts with journalists and editors and people who regulate certain things on HTV where I was suggested that there was an apparent discrepancy between the captain Alexander Stankovic showing HRT and what he was charging.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56877	Thank you. Dear Representative Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56878	Your Honor, by listening to your exposure, we've all probably come to the conclusion that it's actually very bad that the Director's shift goes because he did something outside the house, and nothing has been done because of what he's been doing in the house. What you cited as the answer that he gave you after Mrs. Devereaux's insult. Kristo, that's really scary. However, we have one problem, the problem is related to the supervisory board. In fact, the Supervisory Board was supposed to launch a shift on that principal. Again, since we know who chose the people on the board of directors, we can call again, unfortunately, the majority that they called and set up there, and these people are doing nothing and they've found themselves in a vicious circle. The director can't be replaced until he makes some kind of big mistake.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56879	Dear Representative Vrkljan.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56880	I totally agree with you, and you're absolutely right. I personally wrote to the president of the HRT Supervisory Board asking him to give me an explanation. I haven't got that explanation yet, but it's symptomatic when one option comes to power that then two brothers get two of the most important functions in the state.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56881	The next replica of the respected representative, Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56882	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, we've already heard he's a new V.D. Director family friend and best man connected to the Minister of Culture. On the other hand, we heard what you said and what we read in the media that are sins and Kazimir Bačić and Stankovic, and probably some other people. My short question is, do you think there's any hope for HRT? In fact, there are probably some honest journalists and quality people there, now the question is whether or not they need more quality leadership and whether HRT can be consolidated and become really public television instead of a litter like you said about corruption and nepotism? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56883	Dear Representative Vrkljan.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56884	Thanks for asking. I'm gonna say maybe today's not journalism my first choice, but I think I'm thinking it through, so I'm gonna say it out loud. I think that the ruling majority in changing the new HRT Act should propose that the first HRT programme belongs to the government, the position, that they name their director and that a certain number of journalists join them, and that the second HRT programme belongs to an opposition that will appoint its director, of course, financially organisationally and all others, that would be one television, but in this way both opposition and authority would be in a position to be equal. What Karolina Vidović Kristo, Nino Rasdic, Ante Prkačin and more nets said, that you can only come to HRT if the ruling structures push you, not in the interest of journalists and HRT editors.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56885	She will now speak to the esteemed representative Marija Selak Rasdic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56886	A lot has already been said, dear colleagues and colleagues, so I will try not to repeat myself, eventually sum up the key that the Programme Council should either be abolished or given authority and that, when we talk about HRT leadership again and again and again, the question of why we did not have an independent investigation into cases of sexual harassment where the whole thing eventually culminated in the fact that no one from HRT left, except for the person who reported the same sexual harassment. So much for protecting the dignity of the workers in which they swore on HRT. I'll try to offer something else in this debate. In my work I try, it is an emphasis on trying because we are all people and as such beings limited knowledge, lead to facts, and here I will try to offer some facts that go beyond that impression that we can be accused of when we criticise the information content of HRT which is most important because it creates a political opinion of Croatian citizens, and thus directly affects the outcomes of the election. The first thing I pointed out is that it's not by chance that very rarely we talk about the 4 HRT program that, be careful, the information program, so the whole one program is dedicated to information, and most people almost don't know it exists. The reason for that is his content, let's not lie. Statistics, facts, so, which I said I'd call, show he's only at 11. I mean, we all pay for it, unlike one N1 that's in 7th place of view. So who's going to answer for it? That there is an entire information programme which doubles behind the commercial information program, so we're talking about a programme of the same content, not having fun with informative but informative information. The one we pay is twice as bad as the one who pays for himself. The second thing I want to point out is about the contents of the central journal, what's mentioned here many times, but mostly at the level of the impression. I tried to investigate some facts about that same content. You may not know, but there is one graduate paper that dealt with precisely the analysis of the content of central information emissions on national televisions, and this graduate paper that was working on a 21-day sample of 21 emissions, from 27.8.2018 to 2.9.2018 denied the initial thesis that all central information emissions have identical content. Content is not identical although it is similar, and what difference does it make? The journal and RTL Today, so Nova TV and RTL, regularly display topics related to crime, while in the era of Dnevnik 2 it is an exception. Diaries 2, so the central informative emissions of HRT are the only information emissions that emits highly positive annexes, while the Dnevnik and RTL are more focused on negative emotional annexes today. The reason is also the ownership structure. In Dnevnik 2 contributions related to politics and the economy most often show a positive side, which can be interpreted by the fact that HRT is owned by the state 51% and is a more positive impression of the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. RTL Today and Dnevnik, The New TV Dnevnik are much more critical and objectively conveying information related to politics and the economy in the Republic of Croatia. They question the causes and consequences of statements by members of the government and ask for explanations, while only the statements are transmitted in the Dnevnik 2 ether. So, the most extensive content has the central informative emissions RTL Today, followed by Dnevnik while at the beginning the journal 2. And the young student who did this empirical analysis concludes. Based on all of this, we conclude that central information emissions on national televisions do not have the same content. The most quality content according to this research has RTL Today, followed by Dnevnik Nova TV, while Dnevnik 2 HRT with the quality of its content lags behind the above-mentioned information emissions. I have summed up a whole degree's work here, but you could hear, unlike what we'd be accused of, as if it were our impression, because as an opposition, we're never as happy as we're represented in the media, you could hear an empirical survey by a young student who showed arguments in the quality of central information emissions. And I'm going to remind you, in conclusion, of just one thing, this central journal that lags behind commercial televisions we, Croatian citizens, pay.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56887	Dear Representative Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56888	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleague Selak Rasdic. I'm so glad you pointed out this graduate work that I believe is very interesting, it might be interesting to deliver it to the Assembly Library, if they have an interest in it, and I don't see why they shouldn't. I, unlike some colleagues and colleagues here, was only present when Kazimir Bačić was elected, it was in the previous assembly of the Parliament and then we talked, my question was addressed to him in that conversation and it was about ratings because I told him what you pointed out. Of course, public television does not have to compete with commercial televisions because it has another role, among other things, but that does not mean that ratings is not important and that ratings can become an important indicator of how citizens observe and evaluate the quality of the programme being broadcast. Of course, the answer was kind of high, like we have no idea, and I kept pointing to the ratings problems, they stopped publishing the data. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56889	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56890	Here, with regard to the analysis of ratings and television reception times, means a harmonised period of 19-23 hours according to both studies in these 4 hours the most visible is Nova TV, followed by RTL, HRT 1 and 2, Home TV and RTL 2 and RTL Cube. So the third one's in order. What I've been trying to present here, to direct the debate and in one new direction, is, let's get away from our impressions, something that is thought to be a flat-rate opposition criticism, although it's not, but try to see what some facts are telling us. Someone has done some analysis, not too many, but some exist, to see if we are burdened with prejudice and our own ego or really one impression most citizens have, and it is shared by Croatian journalists that it does not appear critical of the government, it has its basis in reality or in fact. What I've stated shows is that it's the truth, not some imagination of ours and projections of our bright future in... [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56891	Dear Representative Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56892	Thinking about the trail of the previously mentioned cui bono and not barking chuco for the village, I wonder why the ruling so insist on v.d. The director will be Renato Kunić. If this is an irrelevant job that is purely formal and if we get a choice for the new principal very quickly, and the matter will not be difficult for even a year, why insist on Kunić because he is carrying that non-protestant shadow behind him because the best man of the minister is Resorna, Obuljen Koržinek, which, you will admit, is not exactly convenient or common and is a close associate of Kazimir Bačić, whom we replace by political judgment because of the poor influence of this whole story on the public. I will remind you that our Committee on Information, which I was a member, was sitting on Wednesday 5 days ago at 12 o'clock, and that already 3 hours earlier in an early morning interview, Prime Minister Plenkovic said that Renato Kunic would be v.d. So it was decided somewhere else, and then it was just dragged through the parliamentary board and probably... Why do you think they insist on Kunić despite all the accidents they're pulling? [[You can't hear the speaker.]] [[Intruder: Honored representative Selak Rasdic.]] [[Intruder: Can we stick to time, please?]] [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56893	The answer to this question is clear, they insist on maintaining software control because that's what this whole debate is all about, and that's the focus we can't get away from, which is why I've been offering this analysis. What we are interested in, what is the main role of HRT is public service, one that will only or certainly provide credible information from Croatian citizens, and most importantly they are political because they have a concrete impact on their lives unlike any other content they may be able to choose. If you ask me, the main problem of HRT is to getoisation of important content as well as ghettoisation of culture. The fact that culture received a separate programme and informationives received a separate programme did not strengthen these two content but enabled moving important topics from key viewing programmes such as HRT 1, and then HRT 2. So there's one whole system failure that may not be random, but the answer to this question is only one. It's to keep the software control content.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56894	Thank you. Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56895	Thank you very much. My colleague Selak, when you listed the student, it would be good to say who his mentor was at that graduation paper, Who was his mentor? [[/Intruder: What?]] That student, that graduate work, the ratings. [[/Intruder: Mm-hmm.]] And as for these subjective views again of what television offers us, I say, it's subjective and someone likes something more or less. If you're not gonna watch that one, you switch to the next one, and that's your choice, at least that's how I look at it. And now, this is bad because it speaks positively of government measures or some moves, and this is great because it only talks about crime, etc. It's the same topic that could be discussed widely. But when we look at the last research I could find from January this year, HRT 1 is the most visible channel all day, so HRT 1. As for Dnevnik and informational emissions, these differences are very small, very small, because everyone edits the same program in the same way, absolutely, and this student says that the news is more or less the same, so this is regimeal, and this second one is not regimeal, and they're talking about the same news. And a third. The most visible commercial program, cartoons. Can you explain that to me?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56896	Dear representative Selak Rasdic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56897	So, fellow Boric, the fact that you defend the content of informative public television, tells me the most about the content itself. So, you don't have a critical shift, you haven't tried, you've stopped at his defense, I don't think I have anything further to comment on, and because you think that the work of a student necessarily affected who he was mentored, he's probably talking about your modus operand more than that student himself, maybe you're used to students not thinking on their own or that there's always something in the background of anything, and so also here scientific research. I can't prove it, but if you don't do the opposite, scientific research, then I don't think there's anything to talk about, and the cartoon is the most visible, so probably because everything else has been destroyed in this country, so the only thing left to people is the kind of fun that they have to rest from the dreary reality that you've afforded them.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56898	She will now speak to the respected representative Mirela Ahmetovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56899	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS, colleagues and colleagues. Appreciating the debate of counterpart Selak Rasudić, who has made a very good use of the really empirical study of students, and it is commendable and very good and true conclusions, that there is no other scientific research, at least not the one currently known to us here, in order to disprove the conclusions, so let us not appeal to mentors. However, I think we need to get the story back on the track to which it should be returned. Why? Because today we are talking about the justification for the resolution of Kazimir Bačić and the justification for placing him in place V.D. Director Renat Kunić, and we have the justification for the first, and we do not have for the second because Kazimir Bačić, i.e. Kazimir Bačić, was formally proposed by Recimir Varda. He was president of the Club of Representatives Milan Bandic 365, and Renat Kunić appointed 30.3.2017, who? It's Kazimir Bacic. It's Kazimir Bacic. So we're setting up V.D. The director of that principal who's a possible criminal, the man that this possible criminal and appointed as his deputy. I think it's quite clear to the gunmen and the whole public whether to do it or not, quite clearly. And what we change with that appointment, with that appointment where we will appoint Renat Kunić as V.D. Director? Among the 2,700 HRT workers, we don't have a better one than Renat Kunić, who was appointed by a possible criminal, please be careful. And it's not just what Bacic was doing in the fuche as he said it seems to me that the president of SDP's Club of Representatives Peđa Grbin is doing exactly what he was doing while working in the official, official or not working. What he was doing was dealing with the lawsuits of his own journalists and, of course, with the funds of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, because these lawsuits also took place or paid out of the pockets of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who pay 85% of the Croatian budget. And why did he sue them? Be careful of the absurd because it damages the reputation of HRT. Kazimir Bacic sues journalists who talk about the truth because of damage to HRT's reputation. No matter what a cartoon, that's better than a cartoon. And what he didn't do, he didn't exactly do anything on the charges of his employees for sexual harassment by his loyal predators on HRT, but nothing at all. But she didn't do anything too much, either, or Minister Oblisen Koržinek, which is the real question why. If it is considered that the crime Bačić dealt with in his spare time who can believe that at that official time he was an impeccable legalist, who is watching you here, please be careful, he is a very legalist, he is very legal, he respects the laws of the Republic of Croatia at the official time, and when HRT comes out, then he carries the bags of bribes. Interesting. Who here thinks the godfather of Minister Obulen Koržinek, or his deputy, disagreed with this action both in the official and leisure days of Kazimir Bačić. Well, not that this godfather disqualified himself with his godfather with his superior, superior minister, but also because he supported the same misdeeds of a possible criminal, the bag boy Kazimir Bacic. And it wasn't Kazimir Bacin who fell asleep as said by his colleague Pupovac because the people with the 50,000-euro bribes in the bag don't fall asleep. People with millions of apartments in return don't fall asleep, but apparently he's nicked or pitted. Choose your own appointment but it has not failed. Let's not compliment him, that's a compliment. HRT is the propaganda service of the ruling party, it serves to create a cult personality of Andrej Plenkovic, a point, a point, it is true and someone has to pronounce it. It is inconceivable that HDZ washes off responsibility when Bacic was the choice and HDZ. And there will be Kunic. Let us not speak of anyone who could have been proposed on the board, nor should anyone have been suggested because he would not have been adopted. Well, we won't make fools of ourselves, you know how committees work. This is a re-evaluation of the Croatian public in this context reminds the prime minister of the press and also a review of a New Year's interview by Andrej Plenkovic reprised in July. That's not even a colleague and a colleague in Belarus.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56900	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56901	It's not just that they did something and Bacic and his deputy, the problem is that they didn't do what they didn't do. First and foremost, they did not comply with the HRT Act. No one paid attention to that, and no one responded to that. That's the first problem. Another problem, the people appointed to the Supervisory Board who should react, who named them, means the ruling majority again, the one who could make some kind of decision. And now that we got on the Committee on Information, Media and Information Information if we could give the proposal, I told Mr Ivanovic and he agreed with me that proposal would not have been adopted anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56902	Dear representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56903	Thank you very much. So I think it's completely declassified here to talk about the quality of the HRT program. The verification program wasn't there. So, the director of the program doesn't have a program, but that director of the program that doesn't have a program is therefore unable to create a program that will be verified is capable of being v.d. Director. And now it's said that he will only formally implement the director's appointment procedure. So then you have 2,700 HRT employees, which among 2,700 HRT employees there is no one else who can carry out this very simple and fast procedure rather than be the one set up by a possible criminal, Kazimir Bačić. Well done.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56904	Honorable representative of Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56905	Thank you. The prominent MPs, possible criminal Bačić, were in transcripts that came out of a listening conversation among other things, presented himself as HRT director in front of these people while carrying a bag of money because it was wrong for people not to recognize him, that they did not know how important he was. He did these controversial jobs carrying those bags, bagging at work. And as a third thing, I don't know how much you remember it from the media he, among other things, contacted the commercial banks with whom HRT has contacts all the time and he used his powers there. I would ask you, among other things, to comment on the fact that the HDZ people here today say that what he did was negative, as if crime was his hobby, and the pon was usually modeled at work.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56906	Dear representative Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56907	Thank you very much. Well, I just got off the phone in my debate and said. Whoever here or from the people watching us believes Kazimir Bacic was a criminal who carried a bag of bribes of 50,000 euros, received millions of values in apartments for his services. At the official time, he was without a reputable legalist. Who here, but even if he was an impeccable legalist, you yourself said what he did with commercial banks. Who knows where that money he was carrying as a bribe was going on and what he actually got for him and how many times he took that bribe and took it away. But let's leave it to the judicial authorities and let the institutions do their job. What's outrageous is that his V.D. The director, that is, that for his replacement, we now choose the man whom he has appointed, who was unable to achieve his original job as director of the program.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56908	Dear representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56909	My colleague Ahmetovic, I asked Mr Ivanovic that I was interested in motivation, which is the motivation to choose a V.D. person who on one hand did not do what he should do, and he proposed as his right hand and deputy, so someone who wrote it did not tear down his reputation at home. All this stuff that you've been saying that means he didn't ruin his reputation? What's worrying is actually, I don't think I'm sure that my colleagues are listening here anyway, and for the record, I'm sure it doesn't matter. But no colleagues, we also said on the board that in the morning we knew not only that Mr. Bacic would be resolved, we knew who would be V.D. And now the Prime Minister's and Minister of Culture's decision is being defended here.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56910	Dear representative Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56911	It's not just about the destruction of HRT's reputation by Kazimir Bačić. Well, anyone and a little rational can conclude that the destruction of HRT is also if HRT falls ratings, and ratings due to the lack of quality of the program, not because people sleep longer than they normally did. Who's responsible for the decline in ratings? Well, I guess the one who makes up the program, the one who's responsible for the program? So isn't destroying HRT's reputation when you're the director of the program, and you don't have a program? That's not destroying HRT's reputation? So, we have a situation here that the reputation of HRT should be placed on the feet of the man who brought it down, who knocked it down all the time by holding the ladder of Kazimir Bačić, chosen by Kazimir Bačić. Absurd can't be bigger.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56912	Dear Representative Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56913	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Ahmetovic, on the trail of this, is not a matter of self-destruction. Look, you're now if someone's the director of the program at HRT and that program doesn't get a positive opinion either from the Programme Council or from the Supervisory Board, you're probably going to have some conversation with your boss, so you have to explain something. Listen to Kazo one way or another, we'll fix it, I don't know. And then the second year, you get a negative opinion from both the Supervisory Board and the Programme Council. In such a situation, it's minimal to say that Kazo forgives, this obviously doesn't work. It's twice. Here's my resignation on the table, so if there's nothing else you can do as my boss can justify when you get there to the Parliament and you know that the opposition are always making a problem out there, at least you can tell them here, Kunic has resigned from me at my disposal, so I didn't want to. But it's called a cheek that doesn't seem to be there.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56914	Dear representative Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56915	Thank you very much. Well, not only do they double-verify the program you're proposing, so you should resign from your own moral integrity, but for the third time after that advanced, set you up for V.D. Director. You replace your boss, the one who was supposed to fire you or take you out of work, because twice in a row they didn't verify your basic paper. No, it's the most representative body in the Republic of Croatia who chooses you as boss tomorrow. What are we talking about?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56916	Representative Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56917	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. I don't have a replica. I only have one very well-intentioned suggestion. So when you first talked about HRT and so it seems to me like ratings or I don't know what it's about, I haven't been able to hear it well. So, you compared and you said that since there were no other scientific research, that we could appeal to the results of this graduate work of students, so it sounded a little bit in my ear. Here is a really well-intentioned suggestion graduates do not belong to the category of scientific papers. You need to know that science works are the only works based on scientific research using scientific methods. The only student papers included in the category of scientific papers are master's and doctoral dissertations. So, just a well-intentioned here's a constructive note, a note, so here's a good thing if you look at it and read it a little bit.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56918	Dear representative Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56919	Thank you very much, dear colleague. But I wouldn't exactly agree with you. I wasn't talking about the scientific work of graduate work, I was talking about the scientific methods used in that graduate work. And you're just as aware as I am that scientific methods can be used not only for master's and doctoral works, but also for writing scientific articles, etc. etc. And you wouldn't believe how good our students are today and when they have very good mentors, they can do and use scientific methods.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56920	The following will be spoken by Honorable Representative Zeljko Pavić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56921	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues here to explain why not even us, but even the previous assembly of the Parliament should be replaced by Mr Kunić, I will read some articles of the Law on HRT, for example. Article 13(3) states that the HRT must draw up a proposal for the programme commitments of the HRT referred to in Articles 9, 10, 11 and 12 of this Act and carry out a public debate for 45 days in order to show whether the proposed programme obligations are met by this law. The public debate is being held by interactive communication through the Croatian website, HRT programme, round tables and others. The method of determining the content and text of the HRT programme commitments and maintaining the public debate of the HRT is determined by the General Act of the HRT Programme Council on the proposal of the Croatian Chief Director. It means the programming council on the proposal of the head director of HRT, with the approval of the Council for Electronic Media. The public hearing is followed by a committee in which 2 members are appointed by the head director of HRT, and 2 members by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, etc., etc. We now go to paragraph 6 of this same law, which states that HRT is required under the contract referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article to draw up and bring each year for the next year a work programme and a financial plan to determine the activities and programme commitments and to require financial resources, at the latest by the end of December of the current year for the following year. And when we move to Article 19, which states that HRT is managed by the head director of HRT in accordance with this law and the Statute of the HRT and Article 19a. which states, among other things, that the Director-General of HRT represents and represents HRT and is responsible for the legality of the operation of HRT, for the successful pursuit of HRT activities, for the financial operations of HRT and for the implementation of the programme principles of HRT referred to in Articles 5 to 8 of this Act, the Director-General shall also be responsible for the operation and operation of HRT, etc., etc. and when we get to Article 21, where it says the Director-General proposes to the HRT Supervisory Board the HRT Work Programme. Now I'm asking you why the Supervisory Board didn't submit or put forward a proposal last year for the Director's shift since the program doesn't exist. If you go to the HRT website you will see that the last work programme exists for 2019, for 2020 there is no, for 2021 there is no. It was therefore known at the end of 2019 that the work programme for 2020 did not exist. It's prescribed by law. Since the law says that the director of the HRT is obliged to comply with the provisions of this law, and he did not respect them, he should have been removed earlier. But there's no news from the supervisory board, no voice. And what happened? If you look at the report we received for 2019 and in that report, the minutes with no idea which meetings of the Supervisory Board held somewhere in June or July 2020 have no information that the Director has not proposed a work programme to the Supervisory Board. So neither did the Supervisory Board perform its function. And now I'm going back to Mr. Ivanovic for saying that the board of directors should be elected. So how is it that such a supervisory board chooses a director when it is unable to submit a report in which the director writes did not give us a program of work for a certain year and should be replaced. In addition, I think it does not matter whether we vote in the board of directors or vote in the Supervisory Board, it is important what criteria and qualities are taken into account when voting. If these are really the right qualities, if they are the right criteria, then they can vote for them and the Assembly, they can vote for the Supervisory Board and the Programme Council and anyone else. But I think it's still our responsibility because it's the national television that represents us in front of everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56922	We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Matula.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56923	Dear colleague Pavic, you are the vice president of the Media Committee here there are enough of us to attend the press session. I now want to read to you what HRT journalist is limited by a report from the Committee on Media in Dnevnik 2, said in the second journal, this is certainly not what I was listening to, this is censorship and counterfeit without a single word about criticism of the opposition. Where's the credible objective information, where's the professionalism? Croatian journalist so much as what MP Boric says that it's all the same. The other media has all passed on, be careful what she passed on, says after several hours of discussion it is one thing that was true, with seven votes in favour and four against the board supported the appointment of Renat Kunic as HRT's performers. That's all.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56924	Dear Representative Pavić. Thank you very much, dear colleague Matula. Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56925	Thank you fellow, you had a proposal or counterproposal that I sure as hell wouldn't have passed. However, what's the big problem is that we as a committee didn't have the right information and we didn't actually get ready in the right way for that session for point 2. And I see a big problem here, it says, it says, it said that we had a chance, we know that we didn't have a chance, we didn't have a chance, we had to interview a man if he was eager, willing to sit in that place so we could suggest him. On the other hand, the information that came out of this board, you can see it's not true. They're not right on HRT, the other media have passed it on correctly. So there's censorship and that's the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56926	Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56927	Thank you very much. Your esteemed colleague presented a series of facts from the HRT Act. It turns out that there have indeed been before reasons not only now but also in previous months and last year to replace Kazimir Bacic. Were there any initiatives in this regard on the board you are the vice-president of the Committee on Information, Information and Media? So what initiatives or not?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56928	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56929	So the shift initiative wasn't because, first of all, the basic initiative was to be given by the Supervisory Board. The Supervisory Board didn't give us that initiative, and here are the colleagues who are on the same board. We didn't get such an initiative, we didn't get a proposal to replace Kazimir Bačić. However, we now see that he should have done so even a year before our term of office. So in 2019, or early 2020, Kazimir Bačić's shift was actually to be launched because he did not comply with the provisions of the HRT Act. Now I've read it clearly here, read it and explained why it had to be replaced earlier. A man simply does not respect the law, he does not respect the law by which he should work, by which he works at the end of the day and by HRT. Look, we've been out of the program for two years. So the programme hasn't been adopted either for 2020 or 2021 and it doesn't matter to everyone, and the Supervisory Board isn't reporting it to us, and we don't know that because we've been late with the reports for two years.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56930	Dear representative Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56931	So here's what a few MPs have said here and it seems to me that it came from me, and maybe not, correct me, that means it can be especially because you're the vice president of that Media Committee, you can pass the board a proposal to propose another candidate. I mean, it's not just that, and I wouldn't agree with that. I mean, he'll be too loud. Then there's a lot of initiative here in the Parliament that actually wouldn't have started, and it's important that as an opposition we stop, maybe behind some other name. What was the proposal, here are the workers who contacted me from HRT that that employee's representative might be the best choice, a representative of the Board of Supervisors. But maybe any other journalist who's willing to take over. And what's important is that it's not just a technical bureaucratic administrative phase of a year that can be a year, but a really transitional period that needs to be different from the one before.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56932	Thank you. Dear Representative Pavić, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56933	First of all, let me explain, so I think given what we saw now from the law that Kazimir Bacic should have been removed two years ago. However, the person who is now coming to his place should be removed, for she has not done her part of the work either. So according to the HRT Act, no work programme has been passed, and we know who's responsible for it. Therefore, both persons were to be removed and not now rewarded to be V.D. Director. That's the first thing. Second, you asked me about what? Excuse me. Oh, yeah, look, so we're being explained to the board that we can make a new proposal at the plenary session as an amendment. So, the opposition has a chance at the end and the opposition has a chance to make a new proposal, but whether the proposal will pass since the HDZ Club has already agreed on who will be the director before the session. Also announced by the Prime Minister in the morning and the minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56934	Thank you. Dear representative Ahmetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56935	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Selak-Raspudić presented the results of the empirical research here, so using an empirical method that is a scientific method and based on the empirical logic. About how Kunic's ad hoc program is unquality. Please tell me what kind of message we send to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia when for V.D. The director is appointed by Renat Kunić who was not able to meet not only the legal framework and get a certified program, but also that ad hoc program that he had could not perform quality because he was incompetent and for this lower job. What is the message to citizens who pay both Kunić and until yesterday Kazimir Bačić, when we say it doesn't matter what you are and how unsuccessful you are and don't respect the laws of the Republic of Croatia, we will promote you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56936	Dear Representative Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56937	So I think you can answer yourself when you're buying some product that's not right. We are forced to pay one product every month 80 kuna, and after that content is what it is. In no way can we agree, or we can agree that this content is bad, that we need to change it, that we need to improve it, that we need to follow commercial television. Finally, there was an opinion, or view based on research, that information content programmes on other televisions were better monitored than on HRT, I think that's what my colleague Puljak was talking about. So if we're not able to make quality and good information programs, where are we? Not to mention fun programs, not to mention movies and everything. So, I think we can be more quality in information after all, the content has the most, they have the best equipment, the best equipment, good people, complete people. However, these people do not have access to realisation. And there are our problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56938	Thank you. The Honorable representative Bojan Glavasevic will now speak on behalf of the Green Left bloc's Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56939	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. At the end of this debate, I want to draw your attention to the bench behind my right shoulder. You'll see it's empty. Today, the minister of culture and the media Nina Obulen Koržinek were to sit in that bench, for something had happened in its vault and was an earthquake in every sense. The chief director of HRT has been arrested. In a crisis like this, and this is the crisis the minister was supposed to come to the Parliament and say something in person about how she plans to deal with this, what the government is planning to do, the minister doesn't have. Instead of the minister today, few colleagues and colleagues from the HDZ Club speak, particularly counterpart Ivanovic. The same situation was on the Media Committee. The ministers and no one from the ministry were weeds. Well, colleagues and colleagues, that's cowardice. It's closing his eyes to a problem in the hope that if the minister doesn't look at him by some miracle, he'll disappear. It won't go away. The minister used to be very vocal in the past when she was to be warned and criticized by the problems created by governments where she was not an official, but now that something went under her radar, when her choice proved to be a rotten apple from the minister no sign of a voice. There's not a lot of colleagues and colleagues from the HDZ Club, but there's noise, that's it. You know when that happens? When it's not opportune, it's because you know you have to defend something you can't defend. The appointment of Renat Kumić, pardon Kunić, is constantly happening to me this mistake today, cannot be defended. The choice of Kazimir Bačić cannot be defended. The change of the supervisory board, led by Anja Sovagovic, cannot be defended. Toleration and cover-up of sexual violence on HRT which this administration did cannot defend. The persecution of journalists by this administration cannot be defended. You can't defend yourself with production. The use of HRT for propaganda cannot be defended. Nepotism and the departure of good and high-quality journalists and journalists from HRT for abuse, censorship and denial of labour rights cannot be defended. The collapse of HRT during the government that this prime minister sat in, and this minister cannot be defended. For all of this today, not in criminal terms but in political and moral terms, Minister Obuljen and Prime Minister Plenkovic are responsible for this no matter how many people today pretend that Kazimir Bačić was not seen on the news, and no matter how much they run away from dealing with these accusations here in the Croatian Parliament. And in the end, I want to share with you a very private thought. After he was arrested, I took a look at Kazimir Bačić's property card. As head director of HRT, he received a net salary of EUR 24,850. In addition, he and his wife receive an additional 32,200 kuna each month from property and property rights. It means more than he earns on HRT as headmaster. He owns a lot of valuable properties, a new car, a nice sailboat. He owns shares and has 85,000 kuna savings. There are also 3 small loans that a month when we sum up the amount of war out of his pocket, about 8.5 thousand kuna, but with his income he doesn't even feel it. In other words, it is a man who lacks nothing in life and who lives far, far above the 99.99% average of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. In the day you can only eat one lunch, you can only sleep in one bed. In the same news, I watched Kazimir Bačić's arrest and people fighting heat in Banja or Banovina at this time, with no roof over their heads, and I remember thinking that the man who could afford all the freedom of this world was so greedy that he ended up with no fundamental freedom. He's here on his annual visit to Remitenza.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56940	The next final on behalf of the HSS and Workers' Front Club will be spoken by the respected representative Katarina Peovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56941	Here's first of all a greeting from fellow Reiner to see that we're doing more and more, we're not stopping. I won't be long, I'd like to say the final sentence related to the HRT that I've wanted to say from this place for years, and it's said by the legendary Miso Kovac, you don't have a show in an interview that was held with him on Croatian television. I estimated that HRT doesn't have a show, but it's already said why it is so in the previous speaker. It's hard to defend indefensible. However, I will try once again to say what seems to me to be the ultimate goal, some kind of affirmative proposal as much as we are in some way disgusted by affirmative suggestions and give up on them. However, it seems to me that there is some legal and legislative framework that perhaps the opposition still thinks about an alternative proposal regardless of what it will be rejected because there is a legal framework that allows us to propose a different name even if it is rejected. And it will be even more difficult to refuse, or this refusal will be even more obviously illogically due to the arguments we have heard here, which is only a formal function that can last for the longest year, and it has already been announced that the said candidate will not report. Therefore, we can be sure that it will be a formal function. Well, if that's the case, then there's really no reason why we shouldn't suggest. What some HRT workers have suggested to me, I don't know a man I don't really have anything to do with him, but to be a representative of the Board of Supervisors. Maybe that's a good solution. In any case, hundreds of journalists may also stand behind that name, but it is important that he be a representative of the workers. And not to be someone who apparently had problems or was chosen from that click that is now as many have said on their vacation in Remetinco. So it's kind of my call if it can be arranged until the vote somehow to the opposition regardless of the result. What counterpart Matula also suggested on the committee itself to agree to this opposition and to try to make an alternative proposal. In this transitional period, it is really bad that we have continuity as much as it is a transitional period and only a formal period. What could still be said here that the opposition is also there, I must say that the good thing, too, about the fact that Renata Kunić should not be named V.D. Director. What the HSS and RF Club even said was the ultimate non-aphimative gesture or voting meant for the recall of the current director, and more really gestures of rebellion because it all really doesn't make sense. So we have this continuity. A colleague, Vesna Bedekovic, said everyone could have suggested their name. However, I must say that to make a decision on a board of media and a moment when someone needs to be heard with a telephone to make such a decision is not exactly a democratic framework in which an alternative proposal could be made. In any case, it is not too serious, especially if it is said on your part that Bacic is the past, and that Kunić is not the future then there is really no reason for Kunić to be named V.d.. Director. The transitional period we say may take a year, an agreement obviously does not exist or there is an agreement that this is not a good solution even on the side of the HDZ. And we just have to point out that what was said before, it's one of the four directors and the construction unit he's named now replaced, or the director will be replaced. Anyway, here's what I'm calling for. Maybe the opposition will reconsider that. One of the best, yet another satirical description for the end, the best satirical descriptions of the HDZ policy problem, I would say with Misa Kovaca is that censored text of Viktor Ivančić about Plenkovic, which is born again every day because such a forget can only be produced with such gestures.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56942	The next Club of Representatives of the Centre and GLAS will finally speak to the respected representative Marijana Puljak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56943	I thank the chairman. So I was encouraged by my colleague Glavasevic to go out for a pay phone and say something final. So he listed the incomes of the director concerned and listed it could be eaten daily only one lunch and everything the gentleman has. So, it's not a problem that he has all that he has let him have 13 apartments and 36 and as many as he wants and 13 sailboats the question is how he got it. If he's earned honest and hard work, fine. If he got some of those bribe bags down there, that's the problem. And here's a line from my colleague, Peovic, she said you don't have a show, and I say, anyway, HRT, now I'm not going to continue the HRT subscription needs to be lifted because it's going to be me against the public service again. It's not against the public service at all, but I'm going to end up with the fact that HRT needs to be reformed. So we all said here that the problem is that one policy here with V.D. Actually, we're not changing, but we're moving on in the same style. So V.D. The Director will not ensure any change in HRT management, in improving its programme, etc. We can't be comforted that he won't apply for director, he'll only comfort us if we really choose a person who will make a change to this entire HRT in our election as director. And to end, HRT has 2800 employees, a billion-dollar budget and 300 million kunas, let's always keep that in mind a mastodon that's been serving as the voice of those in power lately. I'd even say no matter what power she's had so far. And another maybe for the end, let's think about what our kids are looking at. So, when we think about how HRT needs to reform today's children, they don't have the nerve to watch television, TV, and TV for 45 minutes. They are, therefore, children of the digital age watching streaming, tick streams, Instagram, stories etc. So let's think about how HRT reform in this direction of the digital age so that our children can have that kind of interest in something like that. So in order to survive whether everything and survive at this time today, I will again end up reforming it and reorganizing it and reorganizing it only then would it all have a purpose and make sense as a public service. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56944	Now, finally, on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Zeljko Pavić, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56945	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, here are just a few more words for the end. I would return a bit to the discussion we had on the Committee on Information, Information and Media where I turned attention to v.d. The director can actually stay in that position for a year. So according to the HRT Act, he could be there for a year. When we appoint him, the Supervisory Board has a month to open a tender for the new director, however, an existing V.D. The director could be a year. I was told it would not happen because immediately at the 9th month, it will go to the selection of the new director. We'll see, live and see. I was against it because I had just before in my presentation clearly stated and defined why they should have replaced both the director and the deputy director. And it's not right for us to put that deputy director we should've taken away to put him in the principal's seat right now. That's really not right. We have to ask ourselves, among other things, what we pay every month 80 kunas without talking. Among other things, we pay those people who don't do their job. It was inconceivable for me not to do my job or not to write my superior an explanation that made some work late or impossible to do. It was unimaginable. Nothing's going on here. They didn't report to the Supervisory Board, the Supervisory Board didn't give a report to the Parliament and nothing to anyone. We can't afford that anymore. In view of everything we have spoken on the Committee on Information, Information and Media and what is presented here today at this session, especially by the opposition, I think that it is clear that the SDP cube will vote for the shift of Kazimir Bačić, but will not vote for the appointment of Mr Kunić for v.d. Director. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-07-12-0.u56946	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate, and we'll vote when the conditions are met. We'll finish today's work as well. We'll pick up tomorrow, Tuesday, July 13th at 9.30 p.m. The first item will be the Final Proposal for the Waste Management Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 132. Have a nice evening. The session was interrupted in 19.46 hours. And now we're going to the next point, and that's: - The report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission please the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of Mr Robert Jankovics to submit the report. Here you go.
