ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-17-0.u57867	... Thank you, Honorable Vice President of HS, Honorable MPs and MPs. [[Specially enabled.]] Since the past two months have passed until significant positive indicators have been achieved, which is an increase in the number of insurance workers or employees, and pensions that depend heavily on labour market activities have also grown. I will talk about the results that should be highlighted because they have a positive impact on the lives of our citizens and also on the economy at all. So in the last 5 years, all pensions for a million and 237,000 pensioners have grown by 18%, and for those pensioners who receive the lowest pension, which is about 270 thousand, pensions have grown by more than 24%. Only comparisons throughout the SDP's mandate grew by only 4.6%. In both observed periods, global crises, in the current economy, in this health care, however, it is evident that there have been and there are different crisis management models and that, in view of this, it is manifested by the results of who knows and who doesn't. In the HDZ's term of office, pensions were not questionable at any time, they were regularly increased and paid. If we compare the average amount of pension from 2016 to today, then we can conclude that the average pension has been increased since then by 438 kuna and the same average by 331 kuna. We had a significant percentage of pension coordination last in July 2018, so we can say that this is the last adjustment of the largest since 2018, and also, one of the largest since 2008, comparing the results of the work of previous governments, especially with the mandate of the SDP government, we see that during that government there was no half-year adjustment at all, i.e. an increase in pensions, and even 3 times in a row, the whole of 2014, there was no increase in pensions, too, in one period in 2015. The harmonisation of defence pensions at the expense of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and the well-remembered separation of pensions, again at the expense of Croatian defenders, about the outbreak, that is, taking 4.5 billion kuna from our citizens' personal accounts to cover the 2015 budget, I will not talk much about it, however, it is important that we know about the chronology of bad governance from that time. Today and for the last five years, I can freely say that politics in the pension system is completely different and fairer. The current harmonisation that I was talking about is acceptable at its height, especially because it is based on the growth of wages with a total share in harmonisation of more than 70%, while the share of life costs is represented by 28%. So what is important is that the wage growth index is 3 times higher than the cost of living, and this is the result of the work of this government, Prime Minister Plenkovic, who has succeeded in ensuring conditions for the growth of salaries and increasing the total number of employees in the Republic of Croatia through its systematically linked measures. The number of insurance workers today is over a million and 606 thousand employees, which brought us back to the situation that was before the major economic crisis at the time of 2008. The ratio of insurance and pensioners today is 1:1.30, and what we found, by taking over from the SDP, is a situation of 1:1.14 and such an unfavourable relationship between insurance and pensioners has not been recorded even in wartime, but is at the time of the SDP government. Due to the beauty of economic measures to combat the consequences of Covid and well-balanced and health and economic measures, we today have 50,000 more employees compared to the old normal 2019, there is no flood of unemployment. which many in this house have called, however, none of that, we have more employees, we have more [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Retirement. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-17-0.u57868	Thank you very much. That's what we'd do today's work. We will continue to sit on Wednesday, September 22nd at 9.30 p.m. with a representative club position. Have a nice weekend. Session completed at 11.42 p.m. Now, as we have announced, we would move to deliver a position on behalf of the club of representatives and independent representatives, and the first one, on behalf of the Association of Representatives of the Homeland Movement, will speak to the esteemed representative of Ante Prkacin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-17-0.u57953	... But I won't speak, I'll just say hello. [[Specially enabled.]] Namely, the topic I wanted to talk about is the political crisis in Montenegro and the destructive action of the Serbian Orthodox Church. This is a Croatian state problem, it is a Croatian national problem, and I am very pleased to say that I have held talks with my colleagues from HDZ, and also on the left from all state-run parties, we, a dozen should talk about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-17-0.u57954	Thank you. The next club of representatives is the Centre and GLAS, and Dalija Oreskovic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-17-0.u58078	Thank you, Chairman. Well, there are topics that are personally so important to me that I find degrading to talk about them in a situation where there are fewer than five parliamentary representatives in front of me, but regardless, here's at least a few words, I think I have a duty to say. Namely, what's this about? These days, the EU parliament adopted a resolution on the establishment of an ethical body as an important anti-corruption mechanism at EU body level. The EPP team has given a whole series of amendments which, according to their content, aim to weaken the roles and powers of such a body. Fortunately, such amendments, at least according to the information published by GONG, did not pass. But what does it really say? He's also talking about this government, about a political party operating within the group. He's saying something about their intentions that are quite consistent. I think there's one perception that's actually true, and that's one of the main crimes of HDZ since the first days of creation and the formation of the Republic of Croatia, and to this day, this corrupt premise and corrupt action. But there is another crime, if not even harder than this corrupt part, which is their destructive and destructive action on the institutions, especially when we talk about institutions that should be fighting right now. In the term of this government, not only from parliamentary elections but from, we can say from 2015 on, we have seen an apparent blow to the Committee for Decision on the conflict of interest as one small, by its powers quite weak, but an important anti-corruption body. This destructive action kind of grows year by year, day by day. So we came to this day when the Committee decided on the famous Borg case, here, as I followed the course of the debate, I couldn't follow the course of the Committee at the same time, but without knowing how they decided, I can say something when the story was actually doomed in advance. The moment the Committee misqualified the case and placed it on its weak feet, which is that at all, the responsibility of the ministers who were members of one toxic group of the Borg were accused of a possible breach of the principle of action, and then the HDZ took all the force and all the machinery that goes down even to certain judges or most judges of the Constitutional Court, that, after a stable practice, the Commission, which, by the administrative courts, took away the power to determine the violation of the principle of action even though the principles of action are the basic obligation and the fundamental responsibility of each official, and that responsibility is the greater the official of senior political office. However, what I have been saying since the first day was clear that the activity of government members, ministers involved in the Borg group, was such that it could be commonly qualified as one of the banned activities. So between the prohibited actions described in Art. 7 The law on preventing conflicts of interest and any corrupt crime is indeed a thin, thin, thin border. For all ministers involved in the Borg affair, there was enough information, sufficient data and sufficient official evidence to determine that it was right up to the injury. 7 but not art. 5 indeed did come. And where are we with the Committee today? Today, the Committee is a almost fully euthanized body, today we are in a position for the resolution minister to answer the question that in the new Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests, according to the plan of normative activities to be adopted within the planned deadline, although we are actually talking about the necessity of changing this Act almost from the first day of its adoption, from 2011, and to 2012, and to this day, there is no movement except the reverse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-17-0.u59110	Good morning, respected colleagues and colleagues, as I announced yesterday, in accordance with article. 226 century 2 of the Rules of Procedure, I will propose in accordance with Article 2 of the Rules of Procedure. 226 century 2 of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to propose an addition to the 8th session agenda with 6 new points. You received the proposal to supplement the agenda by electronic means. How appropriate. Article 225(4) of the Rules of Procedure of the Rules of Procedure on the proposal for the completion of the agenda was not adopted, i.e. all the proposed items were included in the agenda of the 8th session. I will also point out, that after the debate on this point is over, the club's position will begin, so we won't, if we finish sooner, and I believe we will, we won't wait, one hour, but we'll continue with the club's position. So our point today is: - Proposal for a Law on settlements, first reading, P.Z. No. 171; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction and the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State Dunja Magash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-17-0.u59111	Thank you very much, Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs. The current Law on settlements has been in force since 1988, and since the application of the applicable law to date, a whole series of legal and sub-legislative regulations related to the area governed by the existing law on settlements and there is a need for the adoption of a new law in order to comply with the rules governing the state measurement and cataster of real estate, local and regional self-government, the municipal economy, the road, the law and other regulations. In addition to the above, the harmonisation of the application of the applicable law in practice pointed to the need to amend certain provisions, all in order to improve the way and procedure of establishing the boundaries of the settlement area, the establishment of the name of settlements, streets and squares, the marking of settlements, streets and squares, and the marking of buildings by home numbers to be arranged by this Act. As regards the manner and procedure of establishing the boundaries of the area of the settlement and the designation of the name of the settlement, streets and squares, the Law continues to stipulate how decisions on that area are taken by representative bodies of the units of local self-government. This Act stipulates as a newspaper that decisions by the representative bodies of the units of local self-government to determine the limits of the territory of the settlement, the designation of the name of the settlement, the streets and squares are made in such a way that the mandatory component of the decision is the official basis of the register of spatial units on which the boundaries and names of the settlements, streets and squares are shown. The above is the reason why data on spatial units, state, county and City of Zagreb, cities, municipalities, settlements, streets, squares and buildings with belonging home numbers are provided in the Register of Spatial Units for whose establishment and management is responsible. Data on spatial units shall be entered in the Register of spatial units from decisions of the authorities responsible for decision-making on the boundaries and names of the settlement, on the names of the streets and squares, or from a solution to determine domestic numbers. In view of the fact that the current Law on settlements does not provide that those decisions are based on and in accordance with the data provided by the Register of Space Units, the lack of that provision makes it difficult to implement those decisions in practice, and therefore it is prescribed that all those decisions are based on and in accordance with the register of spatial units. Furthermore, as a newspaper, it is prescribed that the decisions of representative bodies establishing the boundaries of the settlement area must be in accordance with the regulation governing the spatial arrangement and that the representative body should obtain the opinion of the competent office for spatial planning. It is also prescribed that the boundaries of the settlements are determined by going within the borders, the boundaries of the cadastrian particles, those provisions achieve a harmonisation of spatial records from the competences of different bodies and contribute to the preservation of the spatial functional integrity of the building area and achieve the achievement of the newly formed boundaries of settlements following the boundaries of the cadastrian particles. With regard to the designation of the name of the settlement, the streets and squares, the new Law on settlements is prescribed to make decision on names in accordance with the previously obtained opinion of the Committee of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on Standardisation of Geographical Names. Namely, the Law on State Measurement and the Real Estate Cataster stipulates that the activities of standardisation of geographical names are carried out by public authorities in accordance with the recommendations of the Committee for Standardisation of Geographical Names, appointed and resolved by the Decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and in this regard, this Law prescribes the adoption of decisions on the names of settlements, streets, or squares, in accordance with the previous opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which will achieve standardisation of the designation of settlements, streets and squares, and thus compliance with the spelling norms of the Croatian Standard Language. With regard to the designation of the name of the settlement, the street and the squares, this Law regulates how it is marked with plates and how the panel with the name of the settlement is considered a traffic sign of the name of the settlement. There is also a clearer regulation of the procurement and setting up of panels with the names of settlements, i.e. boards with street and square names, as well as payment bonds for the costs of obtaining and setting up those panels. To this end and to protect the preservation of cultural goods, the law prescribes the need for special conditions to be applied in accordance with the regulation governing the protection and preservation of cultural goods. With regard to the marking of buildings with home numbers, it is prescribed which buildings have to be marked with home numbers, bonds of payment of the costs of obtaining tiles marked by home numbers and prescribed that all tiles to be placed in settlements in which the system of streets and squares has been established since the date of entry into force of this law next to the home number will also have to contain the name of the street and square which also wants to contribute to the standardisation of the appearance of those tiles. Also in this case, when plates are placed on a building or area protected by the regulation in the area of cultural goods, special conditions should be established in accordance with the regulation governing the protection and preservation of cultural goods. The method of marking buildings with home numbers will be prescribed by a regulation with the possibility to edit the appearance of tiles by the decision of the representative body JLS. In the provisions relating to the jurisdiction to determine home numbers, the law is in line with the applicable State Measurement Act and the Real estate cataster in such a way as to determine the home numbers of buildings in the jurisdiction of the State Geodetic Authority. In all words, the newspaper that brings the new Law on settlements in relation to the applicable law will be presented and the following positive effects will be achieved. The improvement of the Register of Space Units will benefit from a large number of state bodies, public undertakings and other entities using spatial unit register data in their daily business. By raising the quality of real estate data in the Register of Space Units, data in the real estate and land books will be improved as basic registers for space. The creation of a framework for the establishment of a register of buildings aimed at strengthening legal certainty, contributing to the dynamics and transparency of business processes in banks, insurance, housing policy, spatial planning and construction, individual and mass assessment of the value of real estate and many other areas. The creation of a framework for improving and implementing the digital census of the population, households and dwellings in the Republic of Croatia standardisation and the appointment of settlements, streets and squares, and thus compliance with the spelling norms of the Croatian standard language, as well as the clearly prescribed procedures for establishing the boundaries of the territory of the settlement and the designation of the name of the settlement, streets and squares. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-17-0.u59112	Thank you. We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Barbaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-17-0.u59113	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President HS, the Honorable Secretary of State. The text of the bill therefore states that the decision on the home number determines the local competent catastrian office. It is not clear on the basis of which it determines whether it is based on some elaborate, project-based and dilemma-based project-based, and to me whether, with the consent of the local community's bodies, they can be different situations, so I think it would be worth considering. I am the supervision prescribed by this law of dilemma is given the complexity of the work being carried out, perhaps it is more correct to put the competent authority of local self-government because both registers and everything else are kept. So it's not an observation, but it's a purely dilemma that I take out from the attached text, and maybe it's settled by some other law, but it's not clear to the end that part of the documentation is being delivered to the public administration and the police for documents, mail and the like.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-17-0.u59114	Thank you very much, thank you. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-17-0.u59115	Thank you very much. So a detailed determination of how to give home numbers will be defined by a rule that must be passed within 12 months, and this is the first reading anyway, so we can always do some things in the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-17-0.u59116	Dear representative Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-17-0.u59117	Thank you very much, Your Honor, the Secretary of State. Here are a few comments regarding the determination of home numbers. According to what I read in this bill and what was discussed on the board, it turns out that every house and every building will get their number, including illegal facilities. I come from Međimurje, there's a series of even settlements, entire settlements, not just houses that are illegal. What's going to be done about it, when these objects are legalized, it's number one. Number two, who's going to pay for all these plates, document changes, you need to know that, say, 20 or 30 houses in the same neighborhood have the same address. So, if each house is going to get a different number, someone has to pay for it, how did you figure it all out together, and when will finally here be something done to legalize all these illegal objects? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-17-0.u59118	Respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-17-0.u59119	Thank you very much for asking. As far as the first question concerning illegal buildings is concerned, illegal objects can still be called, so to speak, legalised, legalised in accordance with existing laws, the applicable Construction Act, the Law on Spatial Planning, if these buildings can, in the sense that they are in accordance with the spatial plan, there is no obstacle to legalising them in accordance with the Construction Act. And as for the payment of these plates with home numbers in the law we have defined that it pays itself to the owner of the house or it can be decided differently if JLS defines it in its decision, it can mean JLS and pay it to its citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-17-0.u59120	The esteemed representative Nemet.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-17-0.u59121	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State would refer to those costs that arise, for our citizens who stem from this law. I would primarily refer to the costs of citizens who will, for some reason, change the address, the headquarters of the company, and they will have to change their personal data in front of state bodies such as land books and cadastres. I believe that the state should also take part in the responsibility and free them from paying such fees. I also want to know why you're in Art. 18th Prescribing such a long period of 12 months for the adoption of the rules, I believe it should have been shorter for the law to be implemented as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-17-0.u59122	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-17-0.u59123	Why is it a long time? The deadline can be shorter, of course, if the need arises, so it's up to 12 months, and we have the current rule, and in practice we don't actually have any problems with the use of home numbers. This is more or less in one place now the settlement law will comply with the same law that was made in '88. with all the other regulations that have been passed in the meantime and which are touched by this law, these are practically more consistent concepts in the Law on settlements.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-17-0.u59124	Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-17-0.u59125	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the HS, dear secretary of state. I have a very practical question, and this is the following, so even today, by virtue of the old law which, from 1988, the representative bodies of the local self-government unit, are changing the boundaries of settlements within their municipalities and cities. This is brought by certain councils, i.e. the Assembly of the City of Zagreb, and now in the context of the Law on Provisions which, you say, was a problem in implementation, i.e. there are problems and implementation, and now you define exactly which bases it should be on, with whose consent it should be. How'd you guys do so far? What's the matter? So, even for these years ago, I know at least one 3, 4 cases where the borders have changed between individual settlements, it is later related to the formation of local committees, with the general formation of electoral lists, i.e. how to conduct elections. How'd you do that so far? [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-17-0.u59126	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-17-0.u59127	Thank you very much. So all I can say is that we've been working on the basis of applicable regulations, and if you're thinking about the Committee for Standardisation of Geographical Names, it's in line with the Law on State Measurement and Real Estates and Standardisation is carried out by public law bodies in accordance with the recommendations of that Committee appointed and resolved by the Government. So that's been defined for almost two years by the State Measurement Act, so for two years now, that standardisation of geographical names has been going, if something isn't harmonised, to that commission. And I can only say that if there were any problems, we probably had to coordinate various public authorities so that everything could be aligned with the Register of Space Units.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-17-0.u59128	Dear Representative Dretar.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-17-0.u59129	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, Your Honor. Magash. Here's a little warning that maybe until the other reading changes or complements the article. 7 because St. 4 states that the Committee for the Change of the Name of the Streets, or the Squares, gives its opinion within 30 days, exceptionally within 60 days, but the Law does not provide for the possibility that the Committee of Government should not give an opinion within 30 days or 60 days, so let's say that there is an open possibility that the Commission would make it difficult to make a decision about changing the name, street or square, so I think that this article should add one item that would regulate that fact as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-17-0.u59130	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-17-0.u59131	Thank you very much. Well, if there are any other loose ends, of course we can always correct it in another reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-17-0.u59132	Honorable representative of Kajtazi.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-17-0.u59133	Thank you, Your Honor, for the Secretary of State. Among other things, this law regulates the appointment of squares, streets and parks. As a representative of national minorities, including the Roma national minority, it is our great desire that in 60 Roma settlements we have celebrities and ours, our significant dates that we could bear. I know it's not in the department's jurisdiction, but how do you encourage local self-government units to do that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-17-0.u59134	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-17-0.u59135	Well, I don't know, I didn't quite get the question. Determination, thinking of home numbers or of street names. [[Intruder: Street names, if I understand correctly.]] Here, how to strengthen, it's a matter and in the jurisdiction of the local self-government units, we can only call them here, if they have any more indetermination in terms of regulations in force, that the state can always jump in there with both interpretations or the completion of those regulations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-17-0.u59136	Honorable representative Petyr.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-17-0.u59137	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ma'am. Secretary of State, Art. 11th century 2 is prescribed to place home numbers, but it is not quite clear how those economic operators will be treated where they are not the headquarters of these companies or crafts, whether they will also have home numbers, especially, if, for example, they are located in entrepreneurship zones, and we know that we have farms, farmers who are also, or are located in some special economic areas or perhaps even outside populated areas. They're actually holding on to one dilemma right now, and they're asking us because we all seem to be doing it. 11th century 2 is not clear to the end, so we would pray for your clarifications that will come from it.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-17-0.u59138	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-17-0.u59139	Thank you. We said we'd get a rulebook that would make it more clear and in a more detailed way to define how the home numbers would be determined. Of course, so far, there has been no problem, as far as I am in contact with the State Geodetic Administration about the allocation of these home numbers and for those non-, non-, non-representative economic facilities and not in the location where the seat is located. Where mail comes for a particular reason, home numbers are assigned there, of course, but I'm saying, there's always the possibility that we can define it better and clearer with the rulebook, and in the second reading we can still do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-17-0.u59140	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-17-0.u59141	Thank you very much, dear secretary of state. Two questions. First, I come from a municipality that is a settlement and our address bears the name of the settlement and home number. So, should this Law, since we have a lot of streets we should name as the representative body of the street and give new addresses again, does the Law impose or can we stay in the existing system? And the second question, about demarcation, is that we were created in 2006 as a municipality, and here for 15 years, we can't solve the issue of demarcation regardless of the existing agreements we have and regardless of what we've already done with the Committee on Borders between local self-government, so I'm asking if the government will do so, i.e. By virtue of this Act under official duty, or do we have to constantly address the Committee of the Government to convene meetings and finally resolve the issue of distinction between local self-government?
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-17-0.u59142	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-17-0.u59143	So just the first question I can answer you, if you're in line with the Register of Space Units I don't know if it's a colleague, the head director of the State Geodetic Administration can explain it better. I don't have that much knowledge that I can answer all these questions exactly. But as far as the second question is concerned, please also refer these to more complex issues concerning the Law in the application of the State Geodesy Administration and other regulations in the field of local and regional self-government so that I cannot answer that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-17-0.u59144	Dear Representative Željko Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-17-0.u59145	Dear secretary, I have three questions for you, actually. The first question is, will you respect the names of the settlements that the locals have already given to these settlements or will you give new names to these settlements? The second question, did you come up with a service that, when you get a new name for the settlement, will immediately automatically link it to the database that is connected to voters, i.e. voters' lists and the third question is actually about, well, now, these two are enough, just answer that, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-17-0.u59146	Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-17-0.u59147	Thank you very much. I have already answered this first question to Agent Boris, so if, in accordance with the Register of Space Units, we should not change, and as far as service is concerned, the service already exists and of course, they will be updated, updated and harmonised, everything will be connected, and we and today use the service of the Register of Space Units and in our information system of spatial arrangement, in our e-Allotment and all our sub-modules, so also other institutions use this Register and which are, these registers are connected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-17-0.u59148	Thank you very much. Does the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? Thank you, you can sit down. No, I don't. Then I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns' Club, the first representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic will speak. He's gone, he's losing his right to speak, and then he's going to speak on behalf of the Center and GLAS Club, the respected representative of Anka Mrak-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-17-0.u59149	Thank you, well-respected vice president of HS, respected secretary of state, respected director, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us the Proposal for a Law on settlements, and it is evident that at this moment we have a Law on settlements that is from 1988. It is one of those, regardless of what is 33 years, but one of the longer-term laws. This Law belongs to that statute of law, which I so-called I'm calling technical laws, which I'm guessing won't cause any controversy at the level of some kind of opposing, secular attitudes, but the technical law that we need, which we need for a simple reason because we have to keep records in space, we have to keep records of the situation in space, and the law, as well as the opening of the reasoning, and the secretary of state said, needs to be brought into line with a number of other laws. Now, here comes that but. When we do that, then we should make sure that we always take a step towards the better. We should make sure that this step towards betterness is in terms of a situation which, in terms of technical support, is in terms of all of the knowledge we have in 2021 compared to 1988 that we can all agree that there are differences. On this road, we have been through a long story in Croatia and this law could benefit us in the whole story. Now, let me remind you, since 1991, we've been on the move to establish new units of local self-government, and in the meantime, we've been forming two, three or more from the starting position on several occasions from one of the municipalities or the city. Let me remind you, just as this Law could, served, we had a commission that determined among other things, the border, between some municipalities and cities or municipalities and municipalities, I think there are still processes and then the commission made decisions for a simple reason which was not possible and not every time possible to do so through the borders of the Catastrian municipalities. It used to run across the streets, sometimes it went in different ways, and then this 1988 Law used it, and now we're making it new. I agree, you need it, you need to have a new one, you need to have different, general different methodologies, different tools we use, so in 1988 drones that are in use today and using geodetics, I think more geodetics or whatever they do, do with drones, but I don't see it in this Law. That's what I basically resent this law. I would like this law to see that some of the things that exist in nature have been installed. That it referred to some kind of technical solutions that exist in nature. I will speak on behalf of the club in principle, individually speaking of these situations that are individual. So, I'd like to see it. What happened in this law, it happened that we decided to make things a little more complicated together. What am I trying to tell you? I warn you of the provision of 2 articles, Art. Article 5 7 where it says that in one article and another, if units of local self-government which do not have the form of local self-government, then the representative body will bring, in the opinion of the citizens previously obtained. How does the representative body get the citizens' opinion? In a referendum? Individually? So, what are we talking about? We're talking about having a village where I'm very, you know, I'm trying to rationalize it, very rationally speaking. Have a village within a municipality and a city, and in this village some people no longer want to be in that village, but they want a part of it to be attached to another settlement, for various reasons, because they don't want to be on that local board, or local self-government or another, for the reason that children can go to school somewhere else, so I won't go into it. So what now? If we don't have, say, an organized form of local self-government, what are we going to do? A referendum? Examine individually? So if we decide to do something like that, then we need to know why we decided and how we will spend our lives. In the same way, the entire story was introduced by the county office for spatial planning, or in the case of the City of Zagreb, it is a city opinion, so it gives an opinion. The same is true for the opinions of individual street and city names, and we have a state commission. So let's understand what I'm trying to tell you. And what I asked the secretary of state, and the secretary of state didn't answer what I asked. We have a law from 1988, according to that law of 1988, we have formed all municipalities and cities in the Republic of Croatia which are now 555 plus the City of Zagreb. By this law we have assigned the names of streets, cities, streets and squares and remember how many names we have changed the street and squares just remember the situation in which we lived, so very little of the City of Zagreb from Jelacica Place, from Zvonimir, we have forgotten what they were called. Everything under that 1988 law for the simple reason that law is technical law. So this law also speaks of the procedure, but it also talks about how the State Administration for the Catastre that it used to be, which is how it should be implemented. And now, okay, let's decide on a new law. What's this new law gonna improve? What will make this law more pro-pulsant, faster, simpler? He didn't answer it all together because in the whole procedure, so that's what I've been saying several times from this pay phone and I'm going to do it again. I have a feeling that regardless of any desire to be faster, there are always those who say yes, yes, yes, but just in case, put in more of that, that and that. Every representative body of the units of local and regional self-government, but in local affairs we have that street appointment committee, each one has a certain number of ruling or opposition and everything else. So instead of having something so let's say let's speed up, let's see, let's see what we're going to be faster, let's see that we're not harassing these citizens, eventually every law goes after itself. We didn't do it, we said in the whole procedure, when we don't have it, but we don't know how it's gonna go. In the entire procedure, we have introduced a state-run office for spatial planning at the county level, so the offices for spatial planning are at the county level. I am very interested in what the Department of Spatial Planning at County level will say when a municipality decides in a settlement that a part of the settlement no longer wants to be there but wants to be there. Most of the reasons that I've had, and what's going on in the space I'm trying to follow, so always about where the kids go to school, it's always about the election, so let's just see how we're going to do it on election boards and everything. And I'm curious about how it's going to work in this law. So, what exactly am I saying? When we make new laws, we have to make them time-change, but we do step up, we do some things that will be faster and better. And I repeat again, I see no reason why we've put the county office in the whole procedure. Then, these 30, 60 days, imagine what that means and what it means. So we should always take care of reality, take care of what it's like in real life. You can write the law, the law can be ideal, there are few members, articles, it can be read quickly, but behind that law is the implementation, there are some people standing at the end of the line I would like to see there were relatively few remarks and of all the remarks I think one was partially adopted, so it's not even in, 11 remarks I think it was, not even in the debate in that law caused some kind of storm. Why? Because we have a law at this point that works and it worked, but let's not when we're doing a new law that's going to be kind of like that, let's just slow it down a little bit, or let's just, for our own safety, introduce everything we need from the documentation to be safe. I'm going to end this debate on behalf of the club, in an individual bit about municipal directors who are getting back a bunch of commitments and a little bit about home numbers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-17-0.u59150	On behalf of the Club of National Minorities, a respected representative, Veljko Kajtazi, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-17-0.u59151	Thank you. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected representatives of the ministry, respected colleagues and colleagues speaking in front of the National Minority Club firstly, I would say that we will support this bill in the first reading. It is clear from the date and years since the current law is in force that the regulation should be complied with. In fact, the law that has been in force so far has been passed since 1988, since then in areas that are more or less borderline to this law, a whole series of acts have been passed and it is certainly necessary for it to be in line with it. But now I would also like to say something about the subject of a very specific type of settlement. You are guessing about Roma settlements or settlements inhabited by Roma national minorities who myself grew up in a Roma settlement and certainly know what it means to live in a Roma settlement, but believe me, there is no Roma settlement in Croatia that I haven't been to at least a few times. When I said that these settlements were specific, I unfortunately meant nothing positive by it. There is almost no complete municipal infrastructure in any Roma settlement, or what is meant by normal in all other settlements of electricity, water, sewage, gas, and there is not even any asphalt in which you can reach the village itself. It is to be honest and to say that in the last 10 years, the situation in many of these improvements has been improved, but it is still a lot of work and demand and effort and the state and units of local self-government. When I mention units of local self-government, I'll touch another one for the Roma, an important topic. Namely, the Roma community has 3 important days, World Roma Day, International Day of Remembrance of Roma genocide victims in World War II and World Roma Day. This last one is on November 5th. I must point out that in addition to the international dimension and recognition by the foreign state institutions of the Republic of Croatia, I am particularly pleased that they have recognized that date and are increasingly recognised by local communities. So some of them named parks or green areas after Roma holiday, there is Zagreb, Belišće, Kutina, Beli Manastir and Ludbreg, and I believe that the figure will grow even more with age. In Zagreb we also have at the intersection of the Sava road and the Koturaska street sculpture on November 5th, this bronze sculpture that shows a young and bold Roma woman is the first monument of Roma culture in the area of the Republic of Croatia after 700 years. Similarly, when it comes to settlements, I cannot mention a population list that is currently under way. At this point, it is still only a census or a list through the platform of e-Citizens. It will last until September 27th when the second part of the census, i.e. a field tour by the censusor, takes place. And while in most places or settlements this is going to run without a problem, I have to express my concern about the field census in Roma settlements once again, I will regret that when we discussed the List of Population Act, there was no provision on the possibility that the censusors would go along with the followers who would help them on the demanding ground. And Roma settlements certainly fall into a demanding terrain, i.e. in non-specific areas. I also understand that part of the MPs and the public had a concern that escorts could influence the results of the census, especially in the area of national commitment issues, but in no case is real fear. The only thing we need to be afraid of is that we won't get real indicators due to lack of information and low levels of education. Followers who would go along with the censusors would serve exclusively as help in the settlement itself or in overcoming certain barriers such as language. Once again, there would be no danger to the very course of the list or to the secrecy of the data if the listkeepers were to go along with the helpers. They would not be present on the list alone unless there was a need for some solution to the idea of someone not ruling in the right way in Croatian. I will take this opportunity to call units of local self-government on the appointment of streets by prominent members of the Roma community or dates and events important to the Roma community. If those names can't be given to the streets in the center or in the places themselves, I don't see any reason not to name the streets in the Roma settlements themselves. Members of the Roma community through legitimately elected representatives in the councils of the Roma national minority, as I am at the disposal of the leaders of the local self-government units on this issue, and I hope that the very idea will come about in the near future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-17-0.u59152	On behalf of the Green-Left bloc's Club of Representatives, a respected representative of Urša Raukar Gamulin will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-17-0.u59153	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary of State, Mr. Director, colleagues and colleagues, therefore, as counterpart Mrak Taritash said, that is one technical law, but I would talk about one topic that I think, regardless of the already respected opinions or rules of such laws, could simply expand the views. Therefore, the Committee on Spatial Planning raised the question of assigning home numbers to illegally built buildings. The answer was that this law does not deal with these issues and that the assignment of home numbers has nothing to do with the question of the legality of the facility. For years and decades, we have witnessed the devastation of space, the illegal so-called so-called. The wild constructions, and no one finds that burning problem yet to be answered and an effective solution, this summer we also had opportunities from Vroje and continue to read about the horrors that occur in the space. Obviously, there is a problem with legislation and control and supervision through the inspectorates and, of course, it is necessary to improve one another. And that is why we suggest that all laws that touch the subject of the legality of construction should also have legal provisions in this direction in order to put ourselves on all fronts and fight and set legal barriers to this evil. Thus, in this Law on settlements, it is not logical to assign a home number has nothing to do with it and does not depend on the question of legality. An object that doesn't have proper legal documentation simply shouldn't get a home number, could get some kind of inventory number, in the 21st century I think we can technologically overcome that situation. And in this way, we would actually have an additional register of illegal construction, and we would also make it impossible for law breakingers to prevent a normal situation with an illegal object, which we very often witness very often, you will agree. And the inability to get a home number would refer to new buildings because this is really complicated in that way to solve. So preventing, demotivating, punishing, of course, illegal construction, I would say, is one of our primary tasks in passing or voting various laws. And because space is one of the most valuable resources that we have left, and I think we have to take care of it and save it in every way possible. And that is why we believe that we need to take this opportunity and every legal opportunity to send a clear message to illegal builders that their work in this society will not be accepted and that they will be sanctioned wherever there is a least legal possibility. Therefore, we propose that additional legal provisions be adopted in this law, which would include the issue of legality or illegality of a building building as one of the conditions for obtaining a home number. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-17-0.u59154	Now we're going to the HDZ Representatives' Club, and the honourable representative Branko Bačić will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-17-0.u59155	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, the Honorable Director of the State Geodesy Administration, dear colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ MPs' club will support the move by the Law on settlements as proposed by the government in its first reading. It's intro. The Secretary of State said that the need to amend this law was created for the reasons that many laws have changed in the meantime that define the area covered by the Law on settlements in their articles and their provisions. I would add not only that the legislation has changed, the social order has changed. So, the law was passed during the former state of 1988, and the regulation itself that defined the way the name of settlements, streets and squares and houses and home numbers was also passed in 1989. Thus, too much time has passed that the law should not be updated and passed. First of all, what is a settlement, the village is defined as an article of the other law itself and says that part of the JLS area consisting of a construction area and other purpose according to the rules in the area of spatial arrangement which sets out the limits and name within which the buildings are marked by home numbers in accordance with this law. First of all, I would suggest to the government that this definition be changed. In fact, there are a lot of cases in Croatia when JLS is actually an area of only one settlement. This definition would give an interpretation that, that it is only part of JLS, and that, then, it should be two settlements if it is only part of the settlement, so the settlement can be part or whole of the JLS area. You have countless JLS that have only one settlement. How much the area and area of JLS corresponds to the area of the settlement itself. So in that part of me, I'm supposed to coordinate it. The second thing that partially answers the question of a colleague Mrak-Taritash who asks why and whether there is even a reason to contact, consult or seek consent or opinion of the County Office for Spatial Planning when changing the area of a settlement in JLS, which is decided by the competent authority or representative body of JLS. Since the definition of the village law itself defines itself, it is determined that it is a settlement, which is part of it, that it is part of, or in my opinion, the whole JLS which is covered by the construction area and the area of other purpose prescribed by the Spatial Regulation Act and is defined by the laws relating to the area of spatial arrangement. In my view, it is good for the representative body to contact and hear the consent and opinion of the competent county office for spatial planning when joining the area of the village. The settlement is usually very important. When we were in 1992. In December passed the Law on the Areas of Cities, County and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia was a big doubt. The law was also in two readings, which I remember very well. In the first text of the bill, it was defined whether the borders of municipalities, cities and counties in Croatia were consistent with the borders of the Catastrian municipalities. Since the borders of the Catastrian municipalities were formed back in the 19th century, and the boundaries of the settlements were defined by a later legislative regulation which came a long time after the establishment of the borders of the Catastrian municipalities and that the settlements were better guessed, if so they could say, and painted a space that defines a building area that makes up a settlement with the respective construction and areas of other purpose, then, until the second reading, the Law on districts, cities and municipalities, the proposal for law in the Republic of Croatia and was introduced, today it is an article. 25, that's when the first law was. 7. which says that the JLS borders are, as a rule, the border of the Catastrian municipalities. If the borders of the border areas of the catastrian municipalities disagree with the border areas of the settlement, then the criteria for establishing the borders of JLS define the settlement, so that the settlement is extremely important for both cities and municipalities and counties. Thus, a number of territorial disputes in the Republic of Croatia stemmed from the fact that the borders of the Catastrian municipalities did not match the boundaries of the settlement and then, when the law was finally passed in 1993, which was preceded by numerous statements by citizens in local choirs, choirs of citizens and in '92, in the fall of 1992, it was decided therefore to define the boundaries of the settlement as JLS. As regards other very important, and in this sense also exists today with the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Committee for the Determination and Decision-making of Decisions in Disputes on the borders of JLS, which are the basis of the Law on County, Cities and Other Laws of the Domain of Spatial Arrangement, defines the boundaries of JLS if there are objections between certain JLS on their borders. What's also important to point out that there would have been an agreement, someone had said before me, I think the street, city and municipality labelling regulation, called street settlements, squares and home numbers could bring in a shorter period of 12 months, and I think that by the second reading, the government might also be able to accept that shorter deadline. What's important is that many JLS approach changes in the name of their streets and squares. And it is good that the government has established a Committee on Standardisation of Geographical Names, which the Commission has adopted its recommendations, and which recommendations are prescribed how and how to approach changes in names and settlements and streets and squares, and in this way, I would say in the area of the Republic of Croatia that there is a degree in access and in ways of changing streets, cities and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia. What is more important is to say that the decisions taken by the representative body must be linked to the Register of Space Units run by the State Geodesy Administration and this is very important in order to avoid wrong, bad in geographical terms decisions that would define changes in terms of individual space and area, individual JLS, and above all settlements located in the JLS area. Someone has already asked me if, given the adoption of a new law, this requires JLS that if there is no system of streets already established, there are settlements that have no streets but only home numbers and these numbers start from number one, home number one, home number 700 and something, whether the basis of this law now requires JLS to establish a system of streets and squares in the area of a given settlement in order to access the appointment or designation of streets and the designation of home numbers, it is not necessary, this law does not impose, nor does it say in the transitional and final provisions, nor does it need to be. So where there is no system of streets there is no need to access the basis of this law which is now a new law there is no need for JLS to now establish a system of streets when maybe there is no street there either. So this law only helps to define a better and better quality way of establishing the name of the settlement when changing and separating a particular settlement from the former settlement, changing the boundaries between existing settlements, naming streets and squares and assigning home numbers. This is the basic purpose of this law because, given the passage of time since the law was passed very, very much time on the one hand, and on the other hand, the laws which define the construction of a spatial arrangement have changed, and then imposes the need... The law. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, we're gonna support this law at the Representatives' Club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-17-0.u59156	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives will be the Homeland Movement, and the Honorable Representative Davor Dretar will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-17-0.u59157	Thank you very much, Your Honor. State secretary with a co-worker, co-workers and co-workers good day to everyone. Let's just go through my question one more time in the replica of the respected lady. The secretary of state. Let's go through that ankle. 7. in which the names of settlements, streets and squares are said to be in line with the previous opinion already given here by the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the standardisation of geographical names. When we put it in a real story, when a certain JLS wants to change the name of a street or the name of a square or create a new street with a new name, we know that this often leads to political problems that sometimes divide the Croatian public deeply. The fact that we came out of the country we once lived in 30 years ago has brought quite normal changes to many street names and squares throughout Croatia, but in the past 30 years. Since we have been living in an independent Republic of Croatia, changes in the names of the already mentioned streets, cities and squares have often led to heated political debates. We would therefore like to draw attention to Articles 4 and 5 of this article, which is that the Commission already mentioned, the Government's Commission, gives its opinion within 30 days of the date of receipt of the proposal for the name of the settlement, street or square or exceptional, in the event of a difficult availability of the building needed for analysis, up to 60 days. There, it seems to me that there is one brake that makes it impossible for us to change the name of the settlement, street or square because the law does not foresee the possibility, or is not incorporated into the law any option for the commission to commit to doing so within that time limit, it is only mentioned here, but it does not say what happens after the expiry of the deadline, whether the proposal for change is considered to be accepted or not accepted, so this one, please try to change it in some way until the second reading. Of course, there's nothing to look at on purpose, but the fact is, if the law hasn't clearly regulated something, there's a gray zone opening up in which technically, it can stop the process of naming or renaming the public surface. Art. 9, I'm glad Mr. Kajtazi put it this way. It's in art. 9, in units of local self-government in which there is an equal use, official use of the language and letter of the national minority, a panel with the name of the settlement, street or square, except in the Croatian and Latin letters, contains a name in the language or letter of the national minority in accordance with the regulation governing the equal use of the language or letter of national minorities. We know for ourselves that some wounds have not yet healed, and for a long time they won't, unfortunately, with us police, especially in the east of the country store bilingual tablets. I am sorry that the respected representative Kajtazi is not here because I fully support his initiative, we know for ourselves, in Croatia we have tables with both Serbian and Italian, Hungarian, Slovak, or letter. If we have a plate of Roma, I have to admit, I don't know, and I wish it was here that I could ask him that, and I consider it one more time, just to get out of the debate about the settlements itself, I hope you won't mind me, we are all absolutely for equal inclusion in the society of all national minorities living in Croatia, as well, of course and Roma. Especially in Međimurje, we are witnessing a problem in which special teaching units are organized for small Roma, special tours in which little Roma go. I repeat, once again, allow them to attend classes together, allow them to get to know each other, allow them, equally, not only in Međimurje, but also in the east of the country where the Serb national minority is legally, thanks to the needs and decisions of local self-government units, has separate classes and even according to a very different educational programme. Let's let them live together, get to know each other, love each other together, because that's the only way one day we'll really be able to live together. The House of Homeland Movement's club will wait for a second reading of this Law, and then we will decide whether or not we will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-17-0.u59158	On behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Arsen Bauk, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-17-0.u59159	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I must begin by expressing some disagreements with my colleague, Anko Mrak-Taritash, which is that for me, this law is deeply political and least technically. That's what I'm saying from my experience at the Department of Administration for four years because the most sensitive political issues had to be referred to by the Law on settlements. I'll take my turn. Point 4 of Article 4 speaks about the Committee of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the Borders of Local Self-Government Units. So the boundaries of the units of local self-government are determined on the basis of legal solutions, and the latest amendments to the law on districts, municipalities and cities that demanded and this opinion and commissions were from 2007, and before that they were from '93. and we have a Cyprus problem in many units of local self-government, for example between the town of Solin and the municipality of Klis, between the municipality of Baška Voda and the municipality of Brela, between the municipality of Bol and the municipality of Nerežist, between the municipalities of Blato and the municipality of Vela Luka, for example. or other units of local self-government where the Committee of the Government of the Republic of Croatia will not make those decisions because it has not made them in the last 30 years because they are political decisions, not professional decisions, or such arguments, and then I have been bypassing some places while I was the minister of the administration without being asked about the borders because if I went to a neighboring place, then I would have to speak quite the opposite, otherwise I would have been kicked out of a place or one or the other, until there it was, to caricate a little bit. So my view is that the Committee of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the Borders of the Local Self-Government Unit should be abolished and this authority should be given to one of the courts, the High Administrative Court, the Supreme Court or the Constitutional Court, that the story be completed because the arguments are political, are no longer legal or catastrian or any other. And then it's about setting limits to the settlement. It is logical, therefore, that within the same unit of the local self-government of the village border, a representative body determines, but the boundaries of border settlements cannot be determined by a representative body because it also determines the boundaries of municipalities and cities, which is the authority of the state, the Parliament primarily. Therefore, the Parliament, if it wishes, can say, this settlement in the municipality of A, this settlement in the municipality of B. Borders settlements are the borders of the municipality, it also writes here and writes in the Law on the Districts of Cities and Countys, and the border will determine exactly the basis of a)katastrian borders, b)some third or there will be no one to determine on what basis the border of the settlement. And thus the boundaries of the municipalities. Therefore, I believe it is time with a political decision on technical matters, it shifts it to the jurisdiction of the courts. The decision of the courts can be written constitutional action and it would be the right way because otherwise, it looks like this to you at the Ministry of the Administration, which is the Committee of the Two Chiefs, even if they are from the same party, then we have to listen to them fighting each other, although I have this one at home, and then these come from the opposition from those places, they bring them to be stronger, so that it is, that it is indeed one fan group of each JLS composed of their own parties who are fighting for their place. And then what will the political body decide? Nothing will decide who hasn't decided. Then let it go, let it go to the courts. As far as the border is concerned, the border of the settlement. The issue of forming a new settlement and these borders is also an interesting issue because it can be a means of transferring a part of the settlement to another JLS. Recital in Art. 1. The 4th area of one settlement can be located only in the area of one JLS and not in line with the Law on the areas of municipalities, cities and counties because it says that part of the settlement is located in one, and part of the settlement is located in another JLS. Under this law it's two settlements, and then it's not part, if the two settlements are not part, then it's a settlement one, with number one and number two, not a part. It confuses, it confuses, it confuses that part, and the question is who then determines the boundaries of that village. So I suggest you fix it. The criteria for determining the names of the streets, settlements and squares should not only be geographical, so the constitutional court has therefore, because of the inadmissibility of certain names and abolished the names of the streets that have been brought by representative bodies, so it would be good to add an item that is even more limited in the appointment of settlements, street settlements, etc. I am not for it to be legal to say that in Croatia there can be no problem with the street of Slobodan Milosevic, for example. Under this law, if any representative body brings it or anyone else on the other side that now, yes, now, but that's interesting, that's an interesting question. And what I would very much like to hear from the National Minority Representatives' Club, will you support the amendment to the misdemeanor provisions. The 9th of this law? So, therefore, that is, I have a very clear question for minority representatives and members of the SDSS in the government, which is why there are no misdemeanor provisions in this law for non-compliance. Nine? And I'd like to hear, once I'd like to hear the answer to that question, and businessly speaking, I suggest that the provisions for non-compliance be added to the infringements. The 9th of this law and I'd like the government to show if that law would not accept what it is. It is, of course, infringement provisions if the table with the name of the settlement, street, square, except in Croatian, does not contain a name in the language or letter of the national minority in accordance with the regulation governing equal use, so that, in order not to remain unarranged, there is no uncertainty in the air. Since it's about first reading, that the road is relatively well routed with several of these exceptions, but essential, I've been thinking about saying, but I don't know if it's politically correct now that this law reminds me a lot of me of bikinis, that it hides, that it doesn't solve the most important, that it solves a lot of this, but not, not what, which was quite often the subject of the dispute, and if the law changes after 30 years. Then you give to resolve these disputes otherwise you don't need to change the law to make mechanisms that have shown ineffective repairs. In that sense, the SDP Representatives' Club and all those who will vote as SDP Representatives' Club will support this law in the first reading, and this about our position in the second reading depends, of course, on the solutions that I have problems with as solutions that should be corrected. Finally, as sensitive as this is, I will tell you about the municipality of Iron and Vrginmost. So we in Sisak-Moslavina County have a municipality of the Iron for which most of its inhabitants would like to be called Vrginmost and Vrginmost, for which most of its inhabitants would like to be called the Iron, all in accordance with the law. It's the same absurd that we can discuss here, and the topics and arguments are political again, not technical. Therefore, this is a very important political law that can resolve many political challenges that last 30 years. If there is a political will for it, and the content of the final bill will be assessed whether there is political will for it or whether this is just one bikini law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-17-0.u59160	Now we're going to an individual debate, and the first one will be spoken by a respected representative of the Anka-Dark Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-17-0.u59161	Thank you very much, Vice President HS, before my colleague Bauk leaves the booth, so this is a law that gives the tool to the technical profession to work, and politics is the one that can take that tool from her hand, not taken or not work. Let's remind ourselves what we have in this Croatia at the moment. We have 556 municipalities and towns, 6757 settlements, 3407 catastrian municipalities and assigned 1,663,836 home numbers. The city of Zagreb has 81 settlements, Osijek has 10 settlements, so you do, we have these in Croatia at the moment and we have some things that have not been solved in years and that this law will not solve either. So we need to know why we're bringing it in. We're bringing him in so that we can bring him in, because someone figured out that we have a law that's 33 years old, so let's do some new law that's going to be current, but this law hasn't solved those key things again. I'll tell you a story that is when, when you don't set the limits have constant consequences. A colleague named Bauk mentioned two JLS, Baška Voda and Brela. And now they're making their own spatial plans, Baska Voda and Brela. Everyone brings a spatial plan with the border, comes to an agreement as they experience it if the borders are not solved in one part and each, and now to make the trouble even bigger, in that part where they overlap, so where Brela is unsettled they plan in one way, and Baška Voda plans in another way. And now they're coming for consent, to get consent to the spatial plan so that we can bring them in. So what do we do now? Therefore, you cannot refuse consent because technically or in accordance with the Law on Spatial Planning. You're asking for an opinion from the State Geodetic Authority that suits you that it's on your commission, I don't know, but it's been a few years and everything. The only way would be if they planned the same space. And then you have two spatial plans in nature, one brought in by one JLS, the other brought in another with the boundaries that match, but as far as the Spatial Planning Act is concerned, that part of the space is the same plan. When someone, someone there, issued local and construction permits, I don't know what the spatial plan was, but they could have consumed both of them. So when you don't solve some kind of problem and put the problem under the rug, that problem gets you piled up behind it. We in Croatia have complete streets and complete home numbers and recorded what is illegal construction. In Croatia characteristics, I have to touch illegal construction, the characteristic of illegal construction was not a bad construction, it was not a building that was against according to technical elements, so you in Croatia really have streets, you also have house numbers on illegal buildings. I could agree with a colleague who talked about the law being that they can't get a home number or street, but then they can't get a connection to electricity, or a water connection, or they can't get a drain, or anything, and they get you when it's been done records and when it's decided in the Law on Legalization, you have a legal and illegal house in the same street, you have no reason, you have no technical difference between legal and illegal, they're the same, they look the same and they're made the same. And now, if you make a decision at country level to decide to tear down all the illegal construction, all right, but that's then, it's only then a real political decision. Italy has done so on several occasions, sent out the police and the military still had illegal construction, but this is not about illegal construction, it is about the subject of the Law on settlements. So just for the end let's remember what a settlement is. The settlement is a place where people live constantly or occasionally, which must be functional and which is part of the inhabited area. And that's how it's supposed to be looked at, and the law needs to be given some frames. And as I said in the debate on behalf of the club, I'll do it again here. This law was supposed to make some kind of leap into the future, he didn't do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-17-0.u59162	Thank you. The replica of Honorable Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-17-0.u59163	Thank you. Now, this step is as you described it, so it really is politics that gives the profession to solve something technical, but politics takes itself away to solve something political, it's this law. It was the easiest thing for me to do when sensitive political issues came, street names, settlements, etc., at the Ministry of Administration to say but we are not in charge of the Law on settlements, ask the State Geodetic Authority, which is therefore absurd that the State Geodetic Administration is asking if anyone can have a street with their name or with some date in history etc.. And that goes for this commission of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So the political decision of the two councils is that, in order not to prevent the development of this, it will bring the common area into line with the spatial plan. It reminds you that Mamic paid 50 million kuna not to block his entire assets. That's what Brela and Baška Voda agreed on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-17-0.u59164	Honorable representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-17-0.u59165	Excuse me, I was a little fast. So this law should give a tool in the hands of the profession that should enable them to decide some things. When it comes to the names of the settlement, when it comes to borders, when it comes to the names of individual streets and squares, these are always very sensitive issues. When you are, I don't know, a representative in some representative body of municipalities and cities when someone decides to name a new street or a new square by some name, these are discussions that are often about the debates that are as long as the budget debates. But what I expected from this law, I expected from this law, in that very sense, that it gives some kind of tool to make the profession simpler and that in fact in certain things it's clearly defined how it is. Because you still have a commission here, you're going to ask the commission, so the commission will decide as decided by 30 years. in some cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-17-0.u59166	The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Josip Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-17-0.u59167	Thank you very much, esteemed Vice President, honorary Secretary of State with an associate. Here, I want to say something since this is very touching part of what I come from, and I have witnessed what we've been going through in the past, and I think that this law is very important, and that this debate still directs it to another reading, and it's good to go in two readings, so we're still looking at a little bit, and on your part, what we appreciate from these discussions, so that the process of determining certain activities that should bring the lives of citizens down to mean in the space we live in was easier and that we know what we do. I come from a municipality that was formed in 2006. And here's a full 15. We failed to share relations with our other local self-government that we came from. We have solved 80% of the important moments through an excellent agreement on disunity, and we have spent it because it was easy for us and we were able to solve it because there was no doubt. However, what is left to solve cannot be solved without decisions of a higher level and there appears this article. 4th century 4, meaning the Government's Committee for Border Identification. So it is good to listen to both parliamentary representatives and some field experience that we may see what to do until the second reading. Because the fact is that time goes by, and that nothing happens, suggests that something can't be solved or that certain activities can't get their... Because we may be experiencing what we don't want, which is some kind of silence from the administration or those who need to make decisions, which is not good. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's why it's up to us to say what we think about all this because we have a situation here today, and I'm going to tell the population list, because I'm coming from a municipality that has only one settlement, but through a catastrian municipality it's included some of the other settlements and we're coming to the list of the population on the experience of the last list, we've got county censuses, no, and it's happened that we should have listed some of the other settlements, which is then by the decisions of the commission, etc., we've solved and it's listed where it belongs or belongs, another settlement. So it's not just that simple. And then we come to the point that we have to deal with these relationships as well. It is not the limit of every settlement to the beginning of another settlement because there is a large space between these settlements. Here, between our village and the next village there is almost 3 km of empty space which is very valuable and resource and attractive and there is not easy to say we end up here with our municipality and start somewhere else. What do we do with that space? Then that's where the catastrian municipalities dealt with it, that way. We have started conversations, and if you remember, the most important dispute that has happened, as far as I know and remember, from these demarcation of borders between the two local self-governments, because the border between the city of Rijeka and the municipality of Kostren that lasted some tens of years, 15 years, while somehow they separated and determined, for example, to whom the shipyard Viktor Lenac belongs, when we talk about space and when we talk about borders, means. And that's exactly the kind of moment there's really a lot of. And we have heard many other examples. We had experience that some municipalities formed as the municipality of Kolan in 2002 or '03. the years with almost clear limits on the basis of those specific parameters, so it could not be re-run through all other activities until they agreed on how they would implement it, where their coordinates exactly wrote to them how the new border of the municipality was applied, for example, the Kolan relative to the city of Pag. And today, again, there are disputes between these municipalities and the cities. So this question around, that's why I asked in my replica, what to do when we've been talking to the Government's Committee for years, and we don't have an echo, whether it's going on on official duty, and that these cases are being resolved by calling the leaders to bring their acts, documents, everything they have and to make decisions, or we've heard some other possibilities today. Here, while we might clear that up to another reading, maybe a lot of this would help us all and know what to do because this condition, as it certainly is, does not contribute that we can solve our relationships. We have a problem today that we can't solve a part of the relationship just because we don't know exactly where we are with space, and we're not talking about spatial plans, low-level plans that cover exactly those areas that are controversial, etc., etc. I think that, here, some of our contributions to making this law better until the second reading, to respect these opinions, and to know what is easier for us to do in the future. Sure. I support this law... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-17-0.u59168	We have a few replicas. She's the first respected representative of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-17-0.u59169	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. Comrade Boric, you have touched at the end of your debate a topic which I think is extremely important, which is that we have a Committee that for years from different, I will not say that they did not want to, but for various reasons they did not solve certain problems. So the problems are from... If the units of local self-government weren't still defined, and we could make them there, count a few to the next. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it turns out that the Commission doesn't have enough tools in its hands to solve it or have enough tools, and there's no political will and that since we have this experience of 30 years in which we haven't solved it, we should still step forward and make another proposal. What kind of suggestion is that? I'm not, I really don't have a magic wand and at this point I can't say it out of my sleeve, but what I would agree with you and what I would appeal to, so your club will support this law if it really tried to solve this problem. that we have another suggestion. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-17-0.u59170	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-17-0.u59171	Thank you very much. Well, I think we'll all agree about it more or less that we have to withdraw certain new provisions here so that we know what's following us because there may be another time period where nothing is going to happen. We heard from a minister of the administration who had the items and the government's commission that was sitting, and he didn't want to make any decisions because they looked political to them. But this isn't just a matter of politics, this is really a matter of life and space you live in, and how it ennobles or adds value to it, and you can't because you're not even in line with other local self-government, you have to ask them your opinions, and you can't get a good opinion, and then we come into election processes and everything else and all of them are kind of moving away. I think there's a chance now that we might be in one period when there are no other events and that through this, another reading and the second reading we have the opportunity to respect these some, our thoughts, if this ministry thinks we should and find ways to do it so that these items are really solved, that we finally have a clear implementation of those decisions made by the Law on Local Self-Government Areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-17-0.u59172	Thank you. The Republic has a respected representative, Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-17-0.u59173	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, dear colleague Boris, for opening a good question and I think some of our fellow citizens are very interested in solving the specific problems they have through this Law. There are similar problems in our county as well as in bordering and bordering. I can even say that there may be a minor problem if there is a free non-inhabited space between the two local units, but we have a situation where practically common household, one part, one house, one building belongs to one settlement, and another settlement which creates really big problems in the lives of these people, they would really want to adequately solve it, and I think this is the moment that through this Law really takes account of some controversial situations and that we find an adequate solution because people have been struggling with it for years and can't adequately solve their problem because they're coming across a certain wall, right? Sure that and when the elections come, people. One part of the family votes for one [[Intruder: Thank you.]] the municipality, and the other for the other. [[Thank you very much. Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-17-0.u59174	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-17-0.u59175	Thank you very much. I'm saying, there are a lot of examples in life, and that life is going down on the ground, and here, I'm just going to add to this debate, what I've forgotten a little bit, and that's that we had, let's say, with our other local self-government more or less solved issue of space, but there's a political change going on, a new mayor coming into another local self-government, changing the statutes and two islands that are indisputably belonging, let's say, to the local self-government where I live, they're enrolling in their statutes as part of their territory, and we're going to have to run disputes, so to prove that it's not so and it shouldn't be so. Such a statute receives confirmation that it is in accordance with the law, i.e. all right with the Office of State Administration, then I say, one question raises many others, a lot of acts that local self-government brings and everyone interferes with each other in their own powers and then the problem just gets more complicated. I think the clearer decisions, if that's the government's commission, the problems are solved because there's no longer any dispute.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-17-0.u59176	Thank you. Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-17-0.u59177	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Boric, you have confirmed one question that is interesting, which is that you have stated that there is one part, for example the municipality of Lopar which has no space that belongs to any settlement, so it needs to be corrected, should be realised in a way that the system, that each unit of local self-government has a system of settlements that must cover the entire municipality, for a number of reasons, is one census because the settlement is one of the basic units in which the census is carried out, therefore, it can be as well as the answer of Mrs. Boric. Jelkovac, who also cited possible misunderstandings, illogicalities that occur when the boundaries of the settlement are not determined.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-17-0.u59178	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-17-0.u59179	Thank you, dear colleague Bacic. If I understand correctly, I say, the problem here is spatial, as I am experiencing it, so there is one limit to the settlement, they were never disputed, however, the catastrian municipality that enters a part of another settlement, to accept it as part of our, let's say, our municipalities simply, it's not at all controversial to us, but simply, when you apply some other law that defines whose borders are of the municipalities, you come to the problem, and then we have to be clear to another reading that at least these questions are clear that there is no longer a dispute. Because under this bill, we no longer have any dispute over whose settlement it belongs and whether that other border should then be resolved and whether it would be resolved quickly and quickly settled by the Government Committee, we just need to have meetings and arrangements and it needs to be settled because, I say, there's no point in waiting for us for decades. I think, because I'm saying, I said one example that made life easier for both the city of Rijeka and the municipality of Kostren, when it's over, the government's commission should make decisions if it's in charge and After that, there are no disputes. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-17-0.u59180	Now they will speak to the respected representative Branko Bačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-17-0.u59181	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State and Mr. Director of State... Administrations, I'm going to try to explain this whole system of definition of settlements and catastrian municipalities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So in the space unit of local self-government there can be one settlement and there can be one settlement, there can be one, there can be several catastrian municipalities. What is, by law, fundamentally, not that, is not this fundamental law, the fundamental law is the Law on districts, cities and municipalities, it stipulates that the boundaries of settlements that are border settlements are units of local self-government. My colleague Bauk just said it wasn't accurate to the end. If the border of the settlement is changed, and the settlement is also borderline, on the edge and border with the second unit of local self-government, then two units of local self-government if they change the boundaries of the settlements, they must conclude an agreement, if they do not make it, then the Government of the Republic of Croatia is responsible. If part of the local self-government unit wants to change its seat, and it is one village to go to another unit of local self-government, then it determines the government of the Republic of Croatia by virtue of the Law on County, City and Municipal Areas. When there is a dispute over whether the border of the catastrian municipality is also the border of the settlement, or where it is not, that area belonging to the settlement, and the other Catastrian municipality, enters the system of that settlement, so it is now the question of the competent representative body to define the boundaries of the settlement and not to be the borders of the catastrian municipalities, it may occur that one settlement has one catastrian municipality and part of another.../incomprehensible/... and the area of another, part of the area of the second catastrian municipality. It is not disputed, it is the Law on districts, towns and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia solved. Therefore, this Law does not even need to enter into a problem solved by the Law on City Areas, Countys, Cities and Municipalities of the Republic of Croatia, because it was settled there. Then it was already here in the debate as if there were no criteria when it had to be defined, for example the names of the square and the streets and said counterpart Bauk, I'm sorry he wasn't there, that it was then left for an arbitrary policy decision. It is not true, no, no, the Government has adopted, established a commission to define and act in the case of appointments, streets and squares, which the Commission has adopted at its session, and these recommendations define, even going so far as to prescribe what names they are, which are from what part of history, whether they come from times of totalitarian regimes, which are unacceptable and these recommendations have been practically facilitated, given the experience we had so far in the conduct of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the past, when certain cities and municipalities of their markets, the streets, marked the names of the persons precisely coming from these regimes, then the Government challenged them with its decisions. Some of them were in the Constitutional Court, which you may recall, therefore, now the Government has established certain recommendations through its Committee, which are recommended by conditions, methods, criteria, reasons for and how certain settlements, i.e. streets, mostly streets, but also squares in the Republic of Croatia can be named. Therefore, it is a tool that helps units of local self-government to, on the basis of these recommendations, when appointed and renamed individual streets and squares, stick to a specific legal framework that corresponds to a democratic society, once, to a state such as Croatia to make such recommendations which, therefore, would call for recommendations in Croatia really do not happen. As a result, this Law solves one problem, solves the problem of settlements, but the boundaries are defined by another law, quite high-quality and prescribed, which are the reasons that allow the Government's commission to enter the borders or the Government itself when it decides to change the area of a local self-government unit, as has so far been the case for individual settlements from one municipality to another, from one city to another, then the Government of the Republic of Croatia decides. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-17-0.u59182	We have two replicas. She's the first respected representative of Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-17-0.u59183	Thank you very much. As regards this Act and the section on the appointment of streets and squares, as you have touched in your debate, I agree that there is this framework and it certainly facilitates units of local and regional self-government when they make a decision on names on the proposal. However, I think there is a minor problem with the appointment of new streets, but in renaming there is another problem, not just a name. The name can, the name proposal can be justified and justified, however, we always have in it, in that street people who already have documents at the existing address and then by changing the name it creates for them additional costs, so I think that really one of the justifiable reasons that should be taken into account, these are the costs that are incurred for the citizens and. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-17-0.u59184	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-17-0.u59185	I thank my colleagues Jelkovac. I know a number of local self-government units that have renamed individual streets in their area. It is clear that it automatically pulls away new IDs and not only ID cards and passports, etc., and a number of other cards, credit cards, etc., I know that cities in their area, I guess, have entered these changes, been taking on the costs that citizens have been caused by changes in the name of a particular street, and that is the only way in my view. Otherwise, there are often legitimate reasons, sometimes for political reasons, there are unjustified reasons for changing streets, squares, street names and squares, therefore these criteria are defined about how and how they should behave in units of local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-17-0.u59186	Dear Representative Barbaric also has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-17-0.u59187	Thank you, esteemed vice president of HS, dear colleague. So this Law seeks to arrange a very important area. I agree with you that neither is possible nor is... The law prescribes a way of setting boundaries between settlements, so it is a very complex, demanding area and possible disputes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That this is also evidenced by the non-determination of borders, for example between BiH since they live, and the Republic of Croatia, since they live in the border area, so I know about the whole series, conditionally said, of the problems where, from Metkovic, Vrgorac, other parts of it, you have a situation where one settlement is divided in half, and therefore it is not possible to bind to catastrian municipalities and this should leave a possible agreement between local communities.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-17-0.u59188	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-17-0.u59189	I thank my colleague Barbaric. So this Law, without being left anywhere, defines the changes in the area of the settlement, at the level of the unit of local self-government, unless it is a suburban settlement, so its change of boundaries changes the boundaries of neighbours, units of local self-government, so that's what this law solves. But when you change the border of a village, and then it's a border, a border settlement, which changes the border of a unit of local self-government, then here, then this law is no longer competent, then it's the law on areas of county, towns and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia because by changing borders and settlements, it doesn't just change the boundaries of the settlement, but it also changes the borders of the municipality, the city, and sometimes in the county. In this case, then, the second law, the second commission, the second body that is at a higher level, and if the border between the two municipalities is, there is certainly a request for the opinion of the competent county assembly. It's prescribed by other laws and there's no need to enter into this Law, it only defines [[Intruder: Thank you.]] a village located in the area of the local self-government unit. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-17-0.u59190	The next one will be spoken by respected representative Marin Piletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-17-0.u59191	Dear Secretary of State, Director of State Geodesy, colleagues and colleagues. For this speaker today, we could hear that this is a technical, political law, and I can partly agree, but I'm going to say that this is also life law. This Law refers to daily communication in local self-government units and on the ground. This Law also concerns rescue actions, whether it be urgent medical aid, whether it be fire departments or other emergency services. And of course, this Law is about what units of local self-government must do primarily, which is a concern of space and spatial planning. This Law therefore goes to standardisation, everything, and the names and arranged relationships and relations between settlement borders, catastrian municipalities, and even can be touched and hence the relations between individual units of local self-government. Why am I saying that? So if the State Geodetic Authority has therefore made a recommendation to standardise geographical names in the Republic of Croatia, in May 2020, then another step into the forest of non-compliance that we have. That's '92, by any chance. when the Law on Countys and Units of Local Self-Government was passed either these Standardisation Recommendations, then something might not have happened which may have been scientifically questionable, but geographically unsustainable, if we had the name of the County of Split-Dalmatia, as if Zadar, Sibenik-Kninska or Dubrovnik-Neretvanska were not Dalmatian counties. Or Požeško-Slavonska so we have, then, a county that is Požeško-Slavonska, as if other counties in the historical region of Slavonia are not Slavonian or that those that are part of Bjelovarko-Bilogorska and Sisak-Moslavina do not belong to Slavonia. That by any chance there were recommendations and the Standardisation Committee called names, then definitely in the City of Zagreb they had the names of the streets of Brsečka and Bersečka. And one and the other street honouring the Istrian town of Brsec, except that some did not know that those who gave according to the elegant r Bersek actually refer to the same thing, so the city of Brsec. That by any chance it was there after the Flash and Storm in '95. The Committee for Standardization of Names, then surely in the Croatian town of Glini, we would not have the Street of Victims of Homeland War, as if the Homeland War as a historical concept were equated with those whose victims we already have, communism, fascism etc., so here, we would also have a recommendation that the Novska Street in Zagreb, which was called towards the city of Novska, then called either Novljanska Streets or Novska Street, and not that the noun here gets, therefore, the status adjectives. If there had been standardisation, it would have been much clearer and geographical names and everything else. Here was also the question of how the representatives of the city and municipal councils would obtain an opinion without the existence of local committees, and very easily, so they are also representatives of these same citizens, as is the local committee. Is it more valuable if 2, 3 members of the local committee or the city council meet to make their decision? Of course, the local committee can also be asked, of course, that citizens can be asked without a referendum, and if asked about the local committee, they will not convene a referendum to make a decision and a recommendation to the city council that a particular street, square or a call will be made. What's definitely gone wrong is connecting this law, assigning home numbers to a legalized object. So I'm just asking here if we're going to ban the assignment of home numbers to illegal facilities and then we have a situation where emergency medical attention has to come out. Then what are we gonna say? Some MPs did not allow house numbers to be placed on illegal facilities. Or who in Zagreb will conduct the legalisation of illegally built attics that have, of course, their home number? This law is definitely going towards standardisation, standardisation will not be implemented after which, so this law is passed but takes a lot of time and effort to make it... [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-17-0.u59192	Thank you. We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Anamarija Blažević.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-17-0.u59193	Thank you very much. Here, buddy, you were talking about standardisation, so that offered me a question about cadastrian measurements. So I'm interested in your position as head of one city in this article. 4th century 3 of the proposed Law, which says that the boundaries of settlements are determined by going through the boundaries of cadastrian particles, and we know that in certain settlements the cadastrian measurements may have been a hundred years ago. I don't mean this debate here that was before, and it's tied to border settlements, but within a unit of local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-17-0.u59194	Dear Representative Chickenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-17-0.u59195	Thank you very much, Vice President. So here, when you talk about the measurements or compliance of catastrian settlements from catastrian municipalities with the settlement, so it is the State Geodetic Administration in Continuity to coordinate, through co-operation with local self-government units, through land change, so setting up settlement borders, through the establishment of new catastrian municipalities, if the constituent parts of the settlements have been separated and become separate, therefore these units of local self-government are obliged to act in continuity, contribute standardisation and compliance with the situation on the ground, care of the area, as we are therefore, in Novska finished the catastrian measurement in 2011 by establishing a new Katastrian municipality of Brocica, we ended only in 2019. This is a process that takes place, but which should be done in continuity.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-17-0.u59196	Replica has a respected representative, Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-17-0.u59197	Thank you, Chairman. A colleague of Piletić, with most of your standardisation arguments, can agree, except in the section relating to the victims. Namely, the concept of the victim has no standardisation of the measure in which someone is or is not the victim, so if he is the victim, he is the victim, so we should all show the same measures, regardless of which war each victim comes from. If he's a victim, he's a victim. If it's not, it's not.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-17-0.u59198	Exactly, but here in the name is so I apologize, Vice President. [[Can I give you my word? Here's your colleague, Chicken.]] So, just like that, if the victim, the victim, everything's fine. However, in this particular case, we have a street name, most likely for positive and well-intentioned reasons, but obviously not in line. If it is a victim of the Homeland War, then the Homeland War is classified in the category and other regimes that systematically systematically produced the victims. The Homeland War as a defense and foundation of this state and the foundation of the existence of this Croatian Parliament certainly was not a regime or a historic moment or period that systematically, organised and plannedly implemented the victims. If it was, they were the exception, not the rule. And get the title such that, the Homeland War classified through the street name as therefore the historical period produced by the victims, certainly not acceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-17-0.u59199	Thank you very much. Now, finally, on behalf of the Centre and GLAS Representatives Club, a respected representative, Dalia Oreskovic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-17-0.u59200	My colleagues and colleagues. Somehow through all the laws we discussed this week, the Center and GLAS Club pointed to problems in their implementation, and in some ways what I am about to say about this law is related to this topic, so the quality of individual laws and the quality and the possibilities of their implementation. So here we are talking about the 1988 law that has been applied in an unaltered form since then. This speaks of the quality of this law and the quality of its nomothtechnics. This means that the law was logical, that it was born according to the rules of the profession, which is why we repeatedly stressed that it was some kind of technical law in which those who understand in matter obviously have the main word in tailoring certain provisions and here, I will use this opportunity to generally welcome the quality work of the State Geodetic Administration as a whole. However, the very concept of the 1988 law, which throughout the period of independence, was of sufficient quality in the existence of independent and independent Croatia, also speaks of the quality of the law passed by this Assembly of the 1990s and beyond. The more we talk about a law which, right now, is within the scope of the work and competence of the minister and ministry, which, among other things, is responsible for the restoration of a number of earthquakes affected areas. We, this body, this Parliament, during this term of office, bring so many unquality laws that, not only can I not endure such a long period of time, but they are not able to live in practice for a single day. To me, it's an unimaginable fact that represents a greater defeat than this. So the Law on Reconstruction did not produce one single result that we could stand in front of the public and justify why we are sitting here in the first place. The second thing that also, somehow, falls into the eyes is that this Law, despite the fact that many technical things have changed in life and in practice, works well enough in practice, on the ground, even when there are objections at the level of individual units of local and regional self-government spoken of by counterpart Bauk, is somehow holding water. This says that in the last 30 years, this country has not actually taken care of the important, it has not recognized the problems in the field and has not designed its own system and its own ideas solutions how to end these problems, so it is more a pity that, here is the law that we are now passing, after so long, does not bring any technical step. Now, one of the details when we were talking about standardisation, about street names, so anyone who ever taught, for example, lists when running for political functions, met with a factual situation, which is that different state bodies have one and the same street, recorded in a different way, and we failed to implement that standardisation in a way that different databases connect and that one and the same street marked in the same way. This is what happens when the street has a name and a name of prominent historical personality, but then in practice a derivative is made out of that last name and enters into standardised use. When we talk about settlements, what the minister has missed is to realize that this Law is worth little to us too if, among other things, the many settlements affected by the earthquakes don't account for any more, there will be a big eviction, so these territories and they won't have the meaning they have now, it's a big criticism to him. And when we talk about changing the boundaries of the area, here, we mentioned in 92 when the counties were formed within these borders as we know them now. This once again opens the topic that I have often talked about in this House, which is the necessity of launching a reform of territorial structure, and the very fact that this Law gives the Government a new role to the Office for Spatial Planning at the County level for me is one proof that during this Government, Croatia will obviously not go that way, so the conversion of counties into areas 5 to 6 meaningful regions, which is one of the necessary preconditions for such a development condition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2021-09-17-0.u59201	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point. We'll vote on it when the conditions are met.
